ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. This plenary session includes the debate and adoption of the opinion on the proposal for an organic law amending the Criminal Code for the eradication of forced or non-consensual sterilization of persons with disabilities who are legally disabled. As an organic law, this initiative must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, pursuant to this provision, I announce that the votes will not take place before 18 o'clock. ACTS RELATING TO THE STATES OF ALARM, EXCEPTION AND SITE: - No, no, no, COMMUNICATION FROM THE GOVERNMENT FOLLOWING THE REAL Decree 900/2020 OF 9 OCTOBER, DECLARING THE STATE OF ALARM TO RESPOND TO SPECIAL RISK SITUATIONS FOR UNCONTROLLED TRANSMISSION OF INFECTIONS CAUSED BY SARS-COV-2. [[File number 91/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u2	On 9 October, the Government notified the Congress of Deputies of the adoption of Royal Decree 900/2020 of 9 October, declaring the state of alarm to respond to situations of special risk due to uncontrolled transmission of infections caused by SARS-COV-2. This royal decree, which was issued pursuant to article 116.2 of the Constitution, was transferred to the Constitutional Commission. For its part, pursuant to Rule 165 of the Rules of Procedure and for the purposes of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this item is submitted to the plenary session of the Congress. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Health. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I want my first words to be a reminder to all the people who have died from the COVID-19 and to convey all our affection and support to their families and people nearby. I would also like to convey a message of encouragement to all people affected by the disease right now and to those who are recovering from its effects. I wish them all a speedy recovery. I would also like to thank the exemplary behaviour and civic commitment that Spanish citizens continue to demonstrate, both in the implementation of health recommendations and in particular in the implementation of quarantines and isolations to protect their health and that of all. Finally, I would like to convey a message of appreciation and gratitude to all health professionals who continue to leave their skins working in very difficult circumstances with a full and committed commitment; a recognition that I extend to all those who, from their various activities and responsibilities, have worked and worked to address this pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before the plenary of this House to report on the state of alarm statement adopted by the Council of Ministers meeting in extraordinary session on Friday, 9 October. A state of alarm that affects nine municipalities of the Autonomous Community of Madrid for a period of fifteen days, limiting mobility in these territories and giving legal coverage to the coordinated action in public health that the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System adopted on 30 September and that was not ratified in part by the Superior Court of Justice of Madrid for reasons of a formal nature. The state of alarm, as you know, was decreed by virtue of article 4 (b) of the Organic Law 4/1981 of 1 June of the States of Alarm, Exception and Site, which empowers the Government of Spain, in the exercise of the powers conferred on it by article 116.2 of the Constitution, to declare the state of alarm in all or part of the national territory when there are health crises that result in serious alterations of normalcy. Ladies and gentlemen, last June 21st ended the state of alarm started in March and extended successively by this House. It is therefore not the first time that a measure of this kind has been dealt with in Parliament. On 21 June the cumulative incidence in our country was 8.51 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. In parallel, since 9 June, the Government was addressing the later phase of that state of alarm with the promulgation of Royal Decree-Law 21/2020, which we know informally as a new standard and which this House is already treating as a bill. On 16 July, the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System approved the Early Response Plan in a pandemic control scenario by COVID-19. As you know, at this new stage the Ministry of Health has a relevant role in the field of coordination, but it is the autonomous communities that are competent to adopt containment and control measures. The epidemiological context tells us that different transmission scenarios coexist in different territories that may require different measures. In this context, the Ministry of Health has been working in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities with a daily monitoring of the evolution of the pandemic and capacities for response both at the bilateral level and throughout the system. Thus, we have proposed and approved the adoption of coordinated actions in public health. Since then, three packages of measures have already been adopted in this regard. The first of these coordinated action packages was unanimously agreed at the Inter-Territorial Council Plenary on 14 August. The second package of coordinated actions was approved, with a view to the start of the school year, on 27 August, following the joint meeting of the Inter-Territorial Council and the Sectoral Conference on Education. The third package of coordinated actions between the Ministry of Health and the Autonomous Communities was agreed on 9 September in relation to four areas: VOCID vaccination, screening, coordination with local authorities and launching new rounds of the National Seroprevalence Study. On 30 September, as I have already mentioned, new coordinated public health measures were adopted with measures for municipalities with more than 100 000 inhabitants. The epidemiological situation is very dynamic and changing and we must all be prepared to activate and disable the different scenarios in a very short period of time. Experience at the national and international levels in the pandemic suggests that the sooner and more forcefully action is taken, the more impact it will have on reducing the transmission of the virus, and the sooner it will make it possible to recover the previous situation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to stress that this second wave is fortunately very different from the first. However, mobility remains a very important contagion mechanism and sometimes it must be controlled, without, fortunately, reaching home confinement. Mobility restrictions have been a common transmission control tool that have employed territories of all sizes over the months. As you will remember, Catalonia was the first to use it in early summer in Lérida and in the region of El Segria; also in Galicia in July, in several localities of A Mariña, in Lugo. In Murcia, cities such as Lorca, Jumilla and Totana have also suffered mobility restrictions in July and August and until last week mobility restrictions have also been applied in these same localities. In addition, the two Castiles have applied mobility restrictions in several municipalities of different sizes, and are currently confined on a perimeter basis, including, for example, the city of León. The Valencian Community, Navarra, La Rioja, Aragón, Cantabria, Extremadura and Baleares have also had to take measures to restrict mobility in different municipalities and recently Andalusia, in the city of Linares, in Jaén. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the autonomous communities are making quick decisions and are anticipating to prevent further increases. Let me refer to two very recent cases: that of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, which announced yesterday more restrictive measures for the next fifteen days, such as, for example, the closure of bars and restaurants, with the aim of reducing as much social interaction as possible in order to avoid even stricter measures in the future; and that of the Autonomous Community of Asturias, the Principality of Asturias, one of the autonomous communities where in recent months there has been one of the lowest incidences in the whole country, but which, given the increases it is experiencing in recent days, sees the need for restrictive measures to prevent major evils. The autonomous communities are therefore acting with determination and strength, anticipating themselves to prevent them. I would like to thank you from this rostrum, and I would also like to thank the work of the municipal authorities, whose collaboration is key in the fight against the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, let me then detail the chronology of events regarding the evolution of the pandemic in the Autonomous Community of Madrid over the last three weeks. On 17 September, the Vice-President of the Autonomous Community of Madrid, Don Ignacio Aguado, asked the Government of Spain for help because the situation in the Community of Madrid, he literally said - I open quotes - 'is not going well' - I close quotes. On the same day, the President of the Government sent a letter to the President of the Community of Madrid, Mrs Isabel Díaz Ayuso, requesting a meeting at which they could analyse the health situation and study together how to strengthen the means to overcome the critical moments as soon as possible, always for the benefit of the citizen. The meeting between the President of the Government and the President of the Autonomous Community of Madrid was held at the headquarters of the Regional Government, in the Puerta del Sol, four days later, in particular on Monday, 21 September. At this meeting, it was agreed to establish an area of strengthened bilateral cooperation between the two administrations and to establish a timetable with the aim of reducing the number of cases registered in this territory. That same Monday afternoon the COVID-19 Group was formed, of which we are part the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service and myself, as Minister of Health, as well as the Health Adviser and the Vice-President and Spokesman of the Government of the Community of Madrid. This group also has the advice and participation of the Centre for the Coordination of Alerts and Emergencies of the Ministry of Health and of officials and technicians of the Health Council of the Community of Madrid. They also support this group two structures - a territorial unit and a technical unit - that have been meeting. On Friday, the 25th, in view of the evolution of data in the Autonomous Community of Madrid, I myself publicly transferred the recommendations of the Ministry of Health, which consisted of adopting more extensive restrictions, stricter limitations than those which the Autonomous Community of Madrid intended to adopt. These recommendations were also moved to all the meetings we held the previous days. On Monday, the 28th, I had the opportunity to meet again with the health adviser of the Community of Madrid, as a meeting prior to the meeting of the COVID-19 Group held on Tuesday, the 29th of September. At this meeting, the regional Government accepted the criteria for confinement and the measures proposed by the Ministry of Health, as publicly conveyed in a statement, expressing satisfaction with this understanding. The Ministry of Health then proposed this package of measures for adoption at the plenary session of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System the following day, 30 September. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said earlier, the Ministry of Health has been working with the Autonomous Communities on a daily basis to monitor the evolution of the pandemic and the capacities for response. In this regard, the role of the Inter-Territorial Council of the National Health System and its subordinate bodies as a governing body and guarantor of the fairness and cohesion of the system is essential. It is in this context that, since August, the ministry and the autonomous communities have agreed to take coordinated actions in the field of public health, as I have been able to detail before. The fourth and final package of coordinated public health actions was approved on Wednesday, 30 September, by a large majority, at the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, with a very specific objective: to double the contagion curve in the territories most affected by the pandemic in order to achieve greater benefit in public health and to minimize the social and economic impact on the population. The agreed measures are minimum measures, which apply in municipalities with more than 100 000 inhabitants, with a cumulative incidence of 500 or more cases per 100 000 inhabitants in the last 14 days; secondly, a positive percentage in the results of diagnostic tests of active infection with COVID-19 greater than 10 %, and thirdly, that this municipality is part of an autonomous community with an occupancy of beds of intensive care units greater than 35 %. In those localities that meet these requirements, at least the eleven control and response measures and the two recommendations contained in the document approved by the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System must be implemented. These measures include, inter alia, restrictions on the entry and exit of municipalities, with exceptions on grounds of force majeure and others, such as visits for health, education or work reasons and for financial activities or for return to the municipality of residence, among others; limitation to six in the number of groups of persons who can meet; limitation of campgrounds in places of worship to one third, with a minimum distance of 1.5 metres; restrictions on wakes to fifteen people in the open air and ten people in closed spaces; the campgrounds in commercial areas limited to 50 %, with closure of the establishment at twenty-two hours; in the hotel shop, a campground limitation to 50 %, prohibition of bar consumption, the capacity of tables cannot exceed six people, customers cannot be admitted after twenty-two hours and the closing time cannot exceed twenty-three hours, and restrictions on campgrounds in sports facilities. In addition, the autonomous communities with municipalities with agreed indicators should strengthen their capacities for early detection and control of the disease, as well as in the area of primary care, as set out in the Early Response Plan in a scenario of control of the pandemic by COVID-19. This is what was agreed at the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System on 30 September. It was also recommended to avoid unnecessary movements or displacements in these municipalities and it was considered desirable for the autonomous communities to approve special plans in municipalities less than 100,000 inhabitants with a high cumulative incidence of new cases. However, as you know, at the meeting of the plenary of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System held on Wednesday, 30 September, the Autonomous Community of Madrid voted against the adoption of this agreed measure which it had accepted the previous day. As a collegial decision of the Inter-Territorial Council, this fourth declaration of coordinated actions is binding and sets out a number of minimum criteria. It entered into force on Friday 2 October at night. As I have pointed out above, the vast majority of autonomous communities have been making decisions in recent months along the same lines to control transmission, almost in all cases with lower indicators than those agreed two weeks ago. Returning to the chronological exposition, in the case of the Madrid Community the regional government published the order on Friday 2 October implementing the measures agreed at the Interterritorial Council. Finally, on Thursday, October 8, he learned of the decision of the Madrid High Court of Justice not to ratify the order of the autonomous community regarding the measure that limits fundamental rights, that is, the measure that refers to the perimeter confinement of the municipalities affected by the agreed epidemiological criteria. I would like to stress that the reasons given by the court are not of substance, but of mere legal authorization to adopt them. Ladies and gentlemen, on Thursday 8th after returning from his trip to Algeria, the President of the Government of Spain called on the President of the Community of Madrid to address the existing legal alternatives and to be able to maintain the measures provided for in the order partially revoked by the High Court of Justice of Madrid. In that conversation, the president proposed three scenarios to the president of the Autonomous Community of Madrid. First, that the Community of Madrid, as a competent authority in the field of health, should issue an order pursuant to Article 3 of Organic Law 3/1986 of 14 April on special measures in the field of public health, something which it had not previously done when publishing the order agreed upon in the interterritorial and which was partially revoked by the High Court of Justice of Madrid. The second scenario was that the Government of the Community of Madrid should request the declaration of state of alarm so that the Government of Spain, together with the Community of Madrid, could declare and ratify the measures in question and thus give them all legal cover. And, third, that the Spanish Government should declare the state of alarm, after approval by the Council of Ministers, without the need for the President of the Madrid Community to make a request in advance. The Government of the Community of Madrid requested more time on the same Friday morning and then decided to continue implementing measures which, in the light of the data, were no longer sufficient to protect the health of the citizens of Madrid, but of the rest of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, from the end of the state of alarm until today 1415 people have died from COVID-19 in the Community in Madrid. Last Friday there were 3361 people hospitalized and 498 people in intensive care units in the Autonomous Community of Madrid. The obligation of the Government, of any Government, of any Administration is to curb the virus, doubling the transmission curve and protecting the health of citizens, those living in the same territory and those living in neighbouring territories. In view of this situation, it was very important that Madrid's high level of infection did not extend to the rest of Spain. The measures we adopted at the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System on 30 September were clearly in this direction: to protect the affected populations as much as possible, to preserve the assistance capacity and to minimize the risk of exporting a serious epidemiological situation from one territory to another, ultimately reducing transmission rates below the levels of risk established by international agencies. The Madrid High Court of Justice had stated that the legal formula adopted was insufficient to limit fundamental rights such as those of movement, on the grounds of not substantive but formal reasons. Therefore, given the evolution of epidemiological data and taking into account that the Community of Madrid was the only community with municipalities affected by the declaration of coordinated actions of 30 September that had not been ratified judicially the measure concerning the restriction of movements, the Government decided to adopt the state of alarm in this autonomous community to give legal coverage to the decisions taken within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. The measures are the same as those I referred to earlier, since the decree adopted last Friday by the Council of Ministers specifically regulates the restriction of entry and exit of the affected municipalities, which are nine; namely: Alcobendas, Alcorcón, Fuenlabrada, Getafe, Leganés, Madrid, Móstoles and Parla. At the time of approval by the Council of Ministers, all of them met the three requirements set out above. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the aim of the Government has always been to protect the health of the entire population. Health protection was also our priority on Friday, 9 October, at the beginning of a bridge, and the urgent objective was to give legal coverage to the measures taken and to prevent the uncontrolled spread of the virus. Let me just offer you the mobility data in the Community of Madrid during this last bridge of 12 October compared to the bridge of 1 November 2019; this comparison is more representative since it is a bridge that lasted also three days, while on 12 October last year it fell on Saturday. The data compared, therefore, with last year's data tell us that, according to the Directorate-General for Traffic, there has been a decrease in the number of exit movements of vehicles in Madrid by 46%; in rail transport, the data record a decrease in the number of passengers by 79%; in air transport, the data provided by AENA show a decrease of 84% in the number of exit and entry passengers at Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas airport. The situation, ladies and gentlemen, is worrying, very unstable, very fragile and we cannot lower our guard, because if there is something that has taught us this virus is the enormous capacity to spread and spread among the population; I insist, the situation is worrying, very worrying. As you know, the duration of the state of alarm is fifteen days, which in addition to the previous days on which the order of the Community of Madrid was in force total twenty-three days with restrictive measures, we trust that sufficient to stabilize the situation. It is necessary to monitor how the pandemic evolves in these municipalities and work hard to bend the curve. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's aim is to get out of the emergency, not just the state of alarm. According to yesterday's data, the national average of the cumulative incidence at fourteen days in our country is in 265 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, but we know that the averages show significant territorial differences, so that the cumulative incidences between 82 cases per 100,000 inhabitants of the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands or 101 cases per 100,000 inhabitants of the Valencian Community vary considerably, to much higher incidences such as in Navarre, Melilla or Madrid, more than double the national average. In no case, I repeat, under no circumstances can we standardize such high figures of cumulative incidence, which continue to indicate a high-risk situation that should be the exception and not the norm. To give us an idea of the size of the situation in which we find ourselves, our national average quadruples the threshold considered high risk by the ECDC, by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, which considers worrying incidences higher than 60 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in fourteen days or a positivity in PCR tests higher than 3%. Moreover, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control establishes two cut-off points above this incidence of 60 cases per 100 000 inhabitants, which considers them at high risk: 120 cases per 100 000 inhabitants and 240 cases per 100 000 inhabitants. That is to say, over 120 cases per 100 000 inhabitants ECDC ranks the areas in a very high risk situation and from 240 cases per 100 000 inhabitants places them at an extreme level of maximum risk. The real perspective of the situation in Spain is that not only the national average is at that maximum level, but also that some territories are in a completely exceptional situation of doubling that maximum alert level. Therefore, the perspective that we must all have, I insist, is to lower the cumulative incidence not by 500 positive cases per 100 000 inhabitants, but by far more, around or below 100 positive cases, because that is the only way we can talk about doubling the curve. It is true that the incidence of COVID-19 in one territory is not the only indicator to assess population risk and that proposals for action should also consider other criteria for transmission or early detection capacity and for the care system, but it is also true that the cumulative incidence, measured in cases per 100,000 inhabitants, is a priority indicator, recognized and recommended by international bodies to assess the effectiveness of the control measures implemented. Therefore, although this second wave is, fortunately, different from the first one throughout Europe, so far, we cannot standardise incidence figures that are far above the areas considered safe in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what is happening in the countries of our environment. Europe is currently experiencing significant increases in daily cases and cumulative incidences in several countries and is taking drastic measures to control the pandemic. Paris and other French cities, such as Marseille, Lyon, Toulouse and Montpelier, have been on high alert since 5 October after having exceeded the 200 cases per 100,000 inhabitants and had 100 cases among the elderly and more than 30% of the beds of occupied critics. The 15-day maximum alert state includes restrictive measures, such as the total closure of cafés and bars and the ban on student parties, and the French Government has just announced that it will return from this Saturday to the state of health emergency, from which it left in July, and will impose a curfew in Paris and other major cities between 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. in the next four weeks. The United Kingdom also has a context marked by restrictions in the various territories since the closure of schools and bars in Northern Ireland to restrictions on travel in Wales. The Italian Council of Ministers also adopted restrictive measures two days ago, on 13 October, with a cumulative incidence of less than 100 cases at national level. The measures, which will last one month, include hourly limits of bars and restaurants, closure of discos and dance halls, suspension of parties both outdoors and in closed spaces and the recommendation not to celebrate parties or relate to more than six non-living people. In Germany, cities such as Berlin, Frankfurt or Cologne, which have exceeded the threshold of 50 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, have taken measures such as limiting private meetings to the hours of bars and restaurants, among others, and the German Government has already announced that it intends to extend the restrictions and reduce the threshold to 35 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in the light of the clear increase in contagion in Germany. And Belgium, the Netherlands and the Czech Republic have also announced important measures in the face of increased cases. Belgium closed bars and cafes and banned meetings of more than four people for one month from 9 October. The Netherlands will carry out a month of partial confinement of its citizens, with cafes and restaurants closed for four weeks, since yesterday. In the Czech Republic they have also announced closures of schools, bars and restaurants for several weeks. Finally, Portugal, which so far had a favourable situation, also declared yesterday the state of calamity, applying measures and new restrictions in the face of the increase in cases recorded in recent days. Ladies and gentlemen, prevention and control measures at Community level are only part of the management of the pandemic. As the Early Response Plan that I mentioned earlier shows, managing includes several essential aspects, which I would like to recall again because they are still very much in force in this second wave. First, the plan highlights actions to ensure the proper functioning of public health services dedicated to responding to COVID-19 and to ensure the implementation of monitoring protocols. This undoubtedly requires ensuring the adequate capacity of human resources dedicated to the field of public health. To reinforce this point, the Government has supported the management of the autonomous communities with two thousand military trackers and a digital tool to support the identification and follow-up of contacts, as well as the Radar VOCID-19 application. Secondly, the plan contains another essential aspect of management, which is to ensure the proper functioning of early warning and early response systems. We know that in the areas of greatest incidence it is more complicated to keep surveillance systems in time and form, but it is crucial to spare no effort to avoid delays in reporting, in order to allow us to assess the situation in real time. Thirdly, the Early Response Plan also includes a number of specific measures from contingency plans in primary and hospital care, including sufficient human resources to respond to extra activity associated with increased transmission by COVID-19. We have to bear in mind that a single pathology, such as that produced by COVID-19, is occupying almost 10% of hospital bed resources and almost 20% of ICU resources, on a national average, with some territories doubling these occupations. Fourthly, the Early Response Plan contains another essential element for the effective management of the pandemic, which I would like to highlight, in this second wave, that it is the availability of places for isolation of cases and quarantine to ensure that these measures are implemented efficiently in situations where they cannot be properly carried out in homes or places of residence. These are living documents - the Early Reform Plan - that we are updating. In this regard, guidance is being worked out from within the Public Health Commission to implement it in accordance with the new epidemiological reality. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this on numerous occasions, and I will not tire of repeating it. Public health is the only thing that matters to us, like the vast majority of citizens, so we must act in a health code, act before, preventively and forcefully, just as the countries of our environment do. We are faced with a public health problem and we must continue to take those measures that are necessary to prevent contagion and reduce transmission and thereby save lives; measures to protect the health and safety of citizens and to further strengthen the National Health System; measures, ultimately, to control the pandemic, to double the curve again and then keep it down. Our first objective, ladies and gentlemen, is to double the curve of the virus again, and I am sure that everyone here, all political groups, share it. We must deal with the virus with individual and collective responsibility, with strength and with all the strength and resources of our public health system. We have to keep up the effort we are making as a society, because there is still a long time of coexistence with the virus, a long stage in which we will all have to continue to comply with the health recommendations that we know work: interpersonal distance, hand hygiene and mask use; a long stage in which we will all be forced to adapt to the new circumstances, both at school and in cultural activities, and also in the way we do business or how we relate to our family and friends. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us not lower our guard, keep our alert and exercise our prudence. I conclude by insisting on something I have repeated over all these months, which is the need for us to work together and with the greatest possible unity. The common adversary to all of us is the virus and unity is what makes us strong in front of it. It is not time for provocations or divisions; it is not time to distract us in sterile disputes or discussions, but to continue to hoist our shoulders together and have all the necessary means to deal with the virus. If we are to remain effective against the virus, we must continue to strengthen coordination and cooperation instruments in the field of public health. That is what citizenship demands and what we owe to those who are facing the disease every day in health centres, emergency services, hospital plants and ICUs across the country. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u4	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u5	President, ladies and gentlemen, the state of alarm is part of what is known as the right of emergency and is a responsibility of the Government. For the first time in democracy a president does not appear before the plenary to inform Congress that the Council of Ministers has made use of the provisions of article 116 of the Constitution. [[Applause.-The first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Calvo Poyato, makes negative gestures]] If you, Mr. Illa, had appointed the authority of the state of alarm, although it is sanitary, it would have made sense for you to be present at this session, but, having not done so and being the government responsible, it is the president who should have done this act of presence. President Zapatero did so in 2010, in the wake of the crisis of the controllers, a crisis that affected many less citizens; instead of parapeting on Mr Blanco, he came. Mr Sánchez himself also did so when, on 14 March, the Council of Ministers approved the first state of alarm. This institutional degradation, this lack of respect for the citizens, which we represent here, is another step of a government that has decided to end any vestige of democratic normality. It has already happened during the previous state of alarm, with which they took advantage to place the Vice-President Iglesias in the CNI Commission, close the transparency portal and reject any parliamentary control. Its authoritarian drift began with the appointment of a socialist deputy as a public prosecutor. The last chapter, today and at this hour, is the bill that they registered last Tuesday in the House to perpetrate their assault on the governing body of the judges. You have to see what your priorities are! The time they have not had to legislate in health matters, as the High Court of Justice of Madrid blames them, and that would have prevented us from being here today, they do have it to intervene the separation of powers and control them. [[Applauds]] We must go far to the east of Europe to contemplate something like this. In the middle of a process of renewal of constitutional bodies, they change the rules in violation of the Constitution itself and a ruling of the Constitutional Court; and they intend to replicate their parliamentary majority in everything to be adopted to control it. All this while two PSOE presidents are pending a Supreme Court ruling, the vice president can be investigated by that same court, and We can be charged by a judge for crimes of illegal financing. This has a lot to do with the pandemic and the crisis it has caused. Do not forget that the receipt of funds from reconstruction programmes is conditional on respect for the rule of law, as the European institutions make clear. And in the face of this latest blow, I assure you that the People's Party is going to activate all the resorts in Spain and Europe to avoid it. Your Honor, the absence of the President of the Government and the absence of the Vice-President, who stamped his signature on the ruinous decree of state of alarm, makes you, Mr Illa, a sort of Fernando Simón; it makes you a human shield to come to this House and make us commulgate with mill wheels with measures that you have read without any conviction. Mr Illa, you are the health minister in the country with the highest death rates, about 60,000 compatriots - recognize them here today - to which your incompetence has contributed. How long are we going to have to wait for the Spaniards to hear from you and Mr. Sánchez humbly a word of apology for this disaster? He refuses to apologize, refuses to resign and presents us today an arbitrary, authoritarian and abusive decision, and you know it. Mr Illa, you will agree with me that a pandemic knows no borders; you will agree with me that any border we place is going to be artificial; you will agree with me that any criteria we adopt to establish it should be able to be scientifically explained; you will agree with me that the measures derived from it must be enforceable throughout the territory under your responsibility. Well, the measures you have taken in Madrid have no scientific basis. Where are the technical reports that support them? Why do you constantly change the criteria? Are you the technician in this matter? They are, therefore, arbitrary. The same is not required throughout the territory under his responsibility, when the pandemic is throughout Spain; therefore, they are discriminatory. They apply to a perimeter area where areas with different incidences are mixed; therefore, it is facilitating it to decrease in some less controlled areas, which is already being achieved with the same measures, but it is very likely to increase where it is controlled. They are, therefore, not suitable. It appears in an indiscriminate confinement of the city of Madrid and other populations, imposing a state of alarm with false data, as they did not correspond to the situation of Friday, when the Council of Ministers of Public Affairs is inappropriate; you yourself have recognized it publicly. Data based on improvised indicators exclusively with the intention of closing Madrid to lime and chant and already, by the way, ruining thousands of Madridns. Indicators without any scientific endorsement that were rejected by the communities most populated in the interterritorial council and with which it sought only to undermine the competences of the Community of Madrid. Mr Illa, you have not submitted a single scientific report that supports the state of alarm. I ask you to give them here today, to make them public, if they exist, because the state of alarm has been an imposition against the Madridns, perpetrated without any kind of dialogue and trampling on the limits of the autonomous state, a disloyal decision that they do not make thinking about the health of the Madridns or the rest of the Spaniards; they have left the health of all of us in the background. [[applause]] Autonomys governed by his party have seen the number of cases that should have forced the population to be confined if the Council of Ministers had imported health and acted with a minimum of fairness. Why don't you dare here today to give Navarra's data, for example? Or is it that the shipwrecks are of a different condition than the Madriders? Or are they not entitled in Navarre to be protected by the Government when they go well beyond the threshold of 500 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, which you set yourself? Mr Illa, health has been an alibi for the government, because all epidemiological data were improving with the measures adopted by the Madrid Community, and they continue to do so today. They could not accept that it was the community itself that doubled the curve, because measures were being taken, an autonomy - that of the Madriders - whose only fault was that it did not want to be coerced of its ineffectiveness, an autonomy that in the first wave of the pandemic demanded it to act when for you there would be no more than one or two cases. An autonomy that closed the schools when you said it was a mistake to do so, that distributed masks to the population when you said that they were useless and counterproductive, that tested when you did not do them, that while you bore the Spaniards with endless and banal press briefings, to monopolize information consumption, set up a hospital in Ifema, which is the example of logistical capacity in a crisis situation. A community that had to face the consequences of the invasion of a virus that entered through Barajas, its competition, by the way, and neither then nor now assumed it, while the Department of National Security warned it of the grave risk of doing nothing. [[Applauds]] But you, angry at the judgment of the High Court of Justice, which resolved and declared not a formal question, but your interference in the fundamental rights of the Madridians, without legal authorization to do so, should subject the Madrid citizenship to the yoke of their despotism, which you had already begun days before organizing a political confrontation and statements before the public opinion, to dismay of the Madridans, who did not understand or understand anything at all, and then with an interterritorial council that approved a regulation that should have been ready since June 21st and that today is not yet ready. Your Honour, the judgment expressly states: It is striking that, in view of the health scenario described, we did not address a reform of our regulatory framework more in line with the confessed needs to effectively combat the COVID-19 pandemic, and to deal with the serious health crisis in the country. Mr. Illa, no form or background. Why didn't they? It was and is their responsibility. Here you cannot look elsewhere, blame the autonomous communities, the citizens or other countries; you can only assume responsibilities. Are you going to assume them? They rejected the proposals we made to them. The president of the People's Party warned him since May and showed Sánchez his willingness to go hand in hand in Congress in the reforms of organic laws. I trust that almost six months later the PSOE will now support the improvements in the legal framework that we will present in the proposed organic law that Pablo Casado announced at the end of July, which we recorded in August, which for almost two months you have held in your office and which, despite your dilatory maneuvers, is ready to be debated in this House on 27 October, and here we will bring it. [[Applauds]] What you have not done yes we are going to do from the People's Party, as an alternative that we are, but until then, because of your pride, we are in Congress today listening to the justifications for your arbitrary imposition of constitutional exceptionality, a smokescreen to hide your harmful and irresponsible management of the pandemic. You have never been concerned about the statistics either of the deceased or of contagion or of the sick, because, as reported by The Lancet, The Economist, Financial Times, Cambridge and John Hopkins, all the international publications and institutions that have done studies on the management of the pandemic conclude that the management of the Government of Spain is the worst. In all the data, in all the statistics, in all the assessments, it is noted that the Sánchez Government failed dramatically in the first wave and is failing in the second. Any politician with a minimum of decorum would have assumed some responsibility in this crisis and resigned. Mr Illa, your denial of the danger of the virus caused the figures of the dead and infected health care workers in Europe and the most damaging confinement for the economy of the entire OECD. [[Applauds]] More citizens have died than in any other country. We got out poorer than the rest of Europe, and Sanchez didn't think of anything else but saying we got out stronger. In July, a few days after the end of the state of alarm he assumed that he had defeated the virus and, instead of worrying about the arrival of the second wave of the virus and legislate, he chose to leave for summer. [[Rumors]] His strategy was to do nothing. Both recommended washing your hands that you did it with your responsibility. In violation of the Public Health Act, which confers exclusive jurisdiction on the Government in the event of pandemics, they transferred the entire management of the pandemic to the autonomous communities. The decoordination has been capitalized; ask the autonomous communities of all political color, because you and Sánchez have been and are responsible for the new increase being disproportionate in contagion and death. As in their deception they had defeated the virus, no homogeneous criteria were established for the whole of Spain in case of rebounds. By the way, the criteria for whether a pandemic is controlled or not were established by WHO in its Public Health Criteria document to adjust public and social health measures in the context of COVID-19. Do you know what date, Mr. Illa? May 12th, and you're still debating it. In which developed country has the Government of the nation become responsible for a pandemic? Only you in Spain, the maneuver of some escapists. His strategy has failed. Eight of the regions with the most coronaviruses in Europe are Spanish. The problem is not the government of every autonomy, it is the government of Spain, which is you. [[Applauds]] You, Mr Illa, have not protected the Spaniards and now you intend to protect yourself, taking refuge in the state of alarm, which is no more effective than an unfair and disproportionate restriction on the rights and freedoms of millions of Madriders. End this discriminatory injustice. They do not lie or deceive or conceal any more. Mr Illa, last Friday we were not given the conditions to declare the state of alarm that brings us here today and, with the improvement that continues since then, it is still less justified to keep it today. Madrid maintains its diagnostic capability by doubling antigen tests in a week, even if you don't publish them. Madrid will arrive next week with an incidence of 300. It's only seventeen UCI beds away from lowering the threshold you invented. All cities, except Parla, are already under 500 cases. With the data that the Community of Madrid provides you daily, we demand that you immediately raise the state of alarm in Madrid. Work with the autonomous communities, such as the Community of Madrid, as it preaches but does not apply, and then leave. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u7	Thank you very much. With all due respect, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Look, minister, this is how the mask is kept: it is placed in an envelope or wrapped in a paper, and not as you have done. What lessons can we learn from this government if the first thing the minister does is not know how to use the mask properly? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] The VOX Parliamentary Group opposes this initiative. You just threatened not with a state of alarm to Madrid, you just threatened with a state of alarm to the whole nation. That's what you just did. We are here to discuss the preferred treatment of the Minister of the Socialist and Communist Government, who is to imprison the Spaniards so that we do not leave. By the way, Mr. Marlaska, you advanced in three hours to declare a police state. The BOE was published at 16:52. Typical of communists: the wall so as not to come out. [[Laughs.- Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u8	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u9	The dogs are missing, the wall is missing, the wire is missing. [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I hear your insults at the desks of the sinister. They'll call me a fascist, but I don't care, I'm not, and it's not VOX. [[Applauds]] VOX has a mission, which is to keep the homeland together that our ancestors left us, to keep it together, to improve it and to leave it as an inheritance to our children and descendants. [[Applauds]] Quite the opposite of you, who have put a monkey to undo the mosaic and are eating the tiles. Look, I know the Marxists very well, because I have been, as a travel companion of the Communist Party of Spain at my 20th birthday. [[laughs]] And listen carefully, in the Faculty of Complutense Medicine I never met one of the PSOE. The only PSOE we thought was PSOE turned out to be from the Political-Social Brigade. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] So do not presume to be fighters for freedom; you in Franco's time took a holiday, forty years, yes, sir. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u10	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u11	There are notable exceptions, no doubt, there are notable exceptions, few, very few. I don't even talk about the communists. Since Khrushchov being a communist can only require one of these two conditions: either ignorance or bellaqueria. [[Applauds]] Now, another fundamental: to be cursi. [[Laughter]] Don Salvador, his name is an oxymoron, it is a contradiction with his works; a contradiction that was already anticipated on February 27, when I told him that he was going to be the minister of the coronavirus. Do you remember? He has become the plenipotentiary minister. You, Minister, and your accomplices, are a plague for life and the economy; fifty-six unrecognized deaths and add up and continue, the western nation with the most deaths by number of inhabitants, the largest in absolute numbers of infected health care workers. In Spain's economy it's getting so backward that it looks back and there's no one, and it's just next to Macao; ladies and gentlemen, Macao. He comes to this Congress to do what he can best do; and what I say best, the only thing he knows, is to lock us up. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Thank you. The only measure they have taken against the Wuhan virus has been to confine the Spaniards by silence and preventing them from working, and they insist. The morale of resentment that prevails in the ranks of the left and in this Government causes millions of people to be imprisoned again, only out of pride. They want to stop Madrid, which creates one in every four companies, one in every five jobs, which attracts 85% of foreign investment, and to do so they invent measures that are tailor-made, arbitrary and embarrassing. What is it to calculate, ladies and gentlemen, the ratio of ICUs by the number of ICUs that existed before the pandemic? Why not in 1978, to make it more unfair, and so they can lock us up more? That is, that a region strives to have more ICU beds so that patients do not die, and does not take into account the effort? [[Laughter]] But also, Minister, those fumes in Despeñaperros. But what merits do they vouch for you for so much arrogance, Minister? You have shown so much incompetence and you and your palm trees have been so wrong that you should spend three hours here listing all the mistakes you have made, and that is what we in the Health Committee after the Health Committee have tried to help you - you have acknowledged it - but to help the Spaniards, not you. They have been wrong not to close the borders with China and Italy, with the masks, with the protection of the sanitary, with the serological tests - we had to tell them that they had to discriminate between IgG and IgM, remember?-, with the PCR, with the management of the light pictures, with the management of the close contacts, but above all, they were wrong not to suspend and prohibit the acts of the 8-M, all the acts. You had to ask forgiveness, not standing, on your knees. They should begin to apologize to Mrs. Calvo, whom I wish best, and continue with all the Spanish women who became infected at that feminist 'infectodrome' and then infected their parents. [[Protests]] Calm down. Because, Minister, according to the Minister of Science, the 8-M was the shooting date, says the Carlos III Institute of Health. It was the shooting date, the cannon that broke down the walls of our homeland. We told him before the summer that Spain would be lost if one of these two conditions were not given: the first, that the virus mutated to more benign, and the second, that you left, and in particular you. Well, none of the conditions have been met, ladies and gentlemen. The virus remains just as malignant and you look at it as it reproduces with the face of sadness and boredom from the Moncloa. You sold the blind burra to the autonomies, ladies and gentlemen, and handed over some of their power to them; not everything, just enough to blame them if things went wrong - lords of the People's Party - and to score the medal if things went well. And they fell into the trap, less VOX, which opposed the Royal Decree 21/2020, as you have recalled. As I had the honour of exposing in this rostrum was a trap; a trap in which the Spaniards also fell when the president told them that this was over, that we had to enjoy. What stupidity, what negligence, what irresponsibility! [[Applauds]] Well, it turns out that the virus also started enjoying its red summer and the wave has come and to top it we have to endure its celebrity celebrating it in balloon. But you, who neither ride balloons nor surfs and is a scholar - as your hagiographers say - what have you learned in the summer, what have you done? Has your diagnostic policy of narrow cases changed? No, no, Does it require a PCR originating at airports? No, no, [[Rumors]] Have you implemented rapid antigen tests at airports, train stations? No, Father. Have you issued any orders that the patient should have PCR results in less than eight hours? No, no, Have they analyzed the filtering capacity of the masks worn by the poor, unsuspecting Spaniards? No, no, Have you given any orders for group PCRs, antigenic tests in residences, schools or hospitals? No, no, The Community of Madrid has dared to put a millionth of antigenic tests in the hands of the people of Madrid. And what have you innovated with? Nothing. Have you analyzed strains of the virus to see if we have more contagious strains at this time? Are there strains coming from abroad? Are they different in contagion or virulence? Those illegal immigrants you receive, do you have different strains? The Spaniards have spent EUR 1148 million on masks and in this Parliament the social communist sinister has voted against our non-law proposal - PNL to which the People's Party joined - in which we proposed that the State finance masks. Go through the workers' quarters, see the workers, see the pensioners and see how they have the worn-out masks. Not like you flamingos, huh? [[Applauds]] Because mask spending is an insurmountable expense for many working-class families who have to choose between mask and food; between masks and the receipt of light, as the OCU has said. That's why, and also because of the bad teaching you give them, they're getting infected. Don't give him the slightest doubt. However, they do not fail to surprise us for their lack of caution. Right now in the flu recommendations neither recommend the masks and that in the southern hemisphere - that is, what is to the south - the virulence of the flu has been much lower this year, but you know that one of the hypotheses is that it has been so by the use of masks. [[laughs]] I don't want to think they do it for saving too, though it may be. Have you promoted any changes to the law to enable the relevant legal measures without the need to resort to the state of alarm? Have you implemented Act No. 33/2011, which allows this, or Organic Act No. 3/1986 or Act No. 16/2003, which state that the provision of public health will include all unique actions that are specific to extraordinary health situations or situations of special urgency or need? Minister, I recommend one thing: go away, but go away. For example, go to Taiwan, which the ambassador has told you is at your disposal. [[laughs]] Either go to South Korea, or to Singapore, or to Japan, the countries that have done the right thing without having their nationals locked up. [[Applauds]] Or go to Germany. Copy the best: test massive and selective isolations; protect the weakest and most vulnerable groups; listen to real scientists, even if it hurts. The widespread closures that you and all communists of all parties propose - as Hayek said - are not the method, are the sign of a failure, apply it. Mr Illa, the ruin of Madrid is the ruin of Spain. The patient does not need amputation, he needs selective vascular surgery; he needs measures of the 21st century, not of the 16th century. [[Applauds]] Minister, after all the failures you've made, how dare you promote a measure like this that you bring here? Let me guess. You're scared because you don't believe what's going on, because you don't know what to do and because you've been told you don't know how to do it, and for something else, because you've tried the ambrossity of dictators, which is made up of equal parts of arbitrariness and retroactivity. Are you going to become a dictator, Minister? Don't fall into that temptation, Mr. Illa. Remember your training, stop advising the tyrant and resign. Apply the medicine of humility that recommends us every day to others, take the petate and go to beautiful Barcelona. Invite all your friends from the blue bank, all of you, and don't forget the lord of the globe, please. You will win and Spain will win from the ICU. We'll take care of her; lose care, she'll get better. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u12	Thank you, Mr Steegmann. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to convey a fraternal embrace to all those who have suffered the effects of the pandemic, the COVID-19, all this time. Secondly, we must recognize all the people who in the worst circumstances have given everything because today we can be here, because the population can continue to live and, fundamentally, because we have a more just, more supportive society, where the dignity of people and the right to life and integrity are a fundamental element in building a just society. [[The Lord]] Unfortunately, we are in a debate in which we have to discuss the declaration of the state of alarm in the Madrid Community. None of us here have any encouragement that this would have had to happen, but it is true that we are carrying structural problems in public health. On this subject, I share what Mrs Ayuso says. It has been said that Mrs Ayuso is responsible for all the ills of public health in Madrid and is unfair; it is unfair because it is the result of the implementation of cuts and the dismantling of public health that responds to a neoliberal project, where the economic interests of the great multinationals that have landed as vultures in the health of our country are placed at the center. [[Applauds]] We and we want to say that we agree that there are structural problems. The first structural problem is the precariousness of health workers. We need a commitment from all the political forces in this House and from all the autonomous communities to end, once and for all, the structural precariousness of the health system; we cannot continue to allow it. [[Applauds]] We have said this during these months and have tried to make contributions to find formulas that will help to care for the people of this country. Starting from the fact that it is now difficult to make structural changes, it was possible to start marking the trend. This is what we put forward in the different sessions of the Health Commission and we also reach out to all political forces, many of them with responsibilities in autonomous executives. We told them that if there has to be reinforcements now - which obviously has to be reinforcements - why are the reinforcements in the health care system with contracts of one week, one month or three months, when there is a forecast that the pandemic will last at least until June next year? How can we get our hands on the head saying that there are no health personnel to come to the Community of Madrid, when the contracts offered do not even serve to rent a house? Do we not understand that it is an essential element to take care of those who care for us and that one of the weaknesses that this health system has had does not derive from the concrete management that has been given now, but from structural issues, such as the systematic ill-treatment of health workers in their working conditions and, first of all, in employment stability? Or do we believe that our doctors, nurses and nurses, auxiliaries and coroners would not rather be here than have to go to other countries? For that to happen, we must offer them minimum conditions, we must give them the opportunity to stay here and have a professional life that will enable them to do so, precisely after being one of the best professionals in Europe. That also has to do with those measures of job stabilization, with simple proposals. There's someone who likes to give medals, we're not something we like especially. However, we believe that now is when the stabilization processes of the templates have to exist. All healthcare professionals who have been giving it everything during these months, and who are going to have to keep giving a lot, should have a recognition by the public administrations. When you are going to make an opposition, if you have been on the front line giving everything for our people, you have to have that recognition, you have to increase your score in all the contests and all the oppositions so that you can access the health system. However, that we will not be able to decide here. We need to establish the dynamics of cooperation, we need to be able to talk about these things in that Inter-Territorial Council, and there must be political commitments since the exercise of self-government - I repeat, since the exercise of self-government - but at the same time, being very clear that there must be shared criteria in order to be able to achieve precisely the best objectives and to value good practices, which are given everywhere and which we would need to share. But we are not in those, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we are in others. The Community of Madrid, unfortunately, far from assuming its responsibility - the responsibility for the care of the population - has assumed itself as the trench of opposition to the government elected by this House, in a lack of awareness of the recognition of the basics: popular sovereignty, which is where all the powers of the State emanate. I emphasize it because, lately, I hear a lot of reciting articles of the Constitution and, casually, they always forget this part, they always forget this part. To be honest, what has been the attitude that has taken place since the Madrid Community? We have seen it in the debate on the state of the region. What is the star proposal that the Community of Madrid has to deal with this situation? Basically lower taxes on the rich, half a point on all the sections - everyone knows that it is not the same to charge 100 000 euros than 25 000 euros and that to lower a 0.5 of IRPF on all the sections benefits more to the upper section because it catches them all -. They have proposed tax cuts policies to those they most have. They have also put forward policies at the health level, but destined for what? To concrete, to make as soon as possible a great hospital, when what is needed are not bricks but hands; there is no need for concrete, hands are needed. And that is where all efforts have to be focused, to strengthen all public health mechanisms. Honestly, I don't know how they can turn into victories or pretend to sell as victories the sound failures, and the chronicle of failure that was the Hospital del Ifema. [[Rumors]] If you live a siege, when you are besieging the castle - we understand that the virus is the one that is besieging the castle and that the castle is our community -, the wall, the first line, is primary attention. When the Hospital del Ifema was organized, the first thing that was done was to give the cry to those who were on the front line, to those of primary care, so that they would go to the bulwark because the walls were overtaken. You have a problem, those who conceive of health as a business, and the problem is that you thought that health had to look uniquely and exclusively at individualized patient care so that it could end up being outsourced to private companies and you could get benefits as do parasitic companies in this country, which is by fishing fish in a cube. The services that are more expensive and inefficient are derived and outsourced, and this weakens the public health system. That should make us reflect. It is said that the ideological mantras must be eliminated, because, yes, the dogmas may have to be eliminated. But the dogma with which we have been living for the past 25 years has not been put by those who are mentioned by some parties in this House, precisely the dogmas with which we have lived, the process of destruction and dismantling of public services in this country, are called Milton Friedman and Von Hayek. It is time for them to keep their manuals and start looking at society, for them to begin to realize that a pandemic once again confronts us with the problem: that this is a disease of a social nature, that we cannot cure ourselves individually, that we have to take care of the whole population and that this is the central element of public health. That's where we have to focus all our efforts. Trackers are needed to be able to know what contacts are and to establish these public health mechanisms determined in a Community logic, but for the President of the Community of Madrid they are 'turkets'. Is 'Turkish' the fact that people's contacts are being sought and they can be told that they have been exposed to risk so that they can put in place preventive measures? 'Turkets'? No, they're public health measures. But it is that you have a fundamental problem with the concept of public health, that is the fundamental problem you have and have to review it, because if something has fallen into this pandemic it has been precisely that concept of social Darwinism that the strong can survive against the weak. What this pandemic does is to put ourselves in front of a question that had long been put on the table by the feminist movement itself - which also does not like reactionary forces - which is that life is vulnerable and interdependent; that it requires the construction of social mechanisms to be able to take care of each other; that this cannot fall on the back of the private because in the end it ends on the back of the women, but that it is necessary to articulate public mechanisms, with a strengthening of public health and the promotion of the articulation of the community. [[Applauds]] We and we are very proud and proud of our people, and we are so because every day it gives us lessons and we try to learn from it with practices that really show us what fraternity and sorority means in difficult times. When things were difficult and everyone had to confine themselves - not with a limitation of movements, but to confine themselves at home - at that time, there were people who had serious difficulties. In the popular neighbourhoods - those that you like to segregate, confine and hinder access to social assistance - in those neighborhoods, people began to build networks of mutual support to take care of themselves, to show just how to get out of this situation. Out of this situation we had to get out of hand and understand that we had to go out together and all together without anyone left behind. I want to thank all those people who have taught all the public administrations, I want to thank them because they and they are building the new institutionality that we need. An institution that puts life at the centre and understands that it is not enough for public administrations to have to make public policies - it is true that they and they have in many cases filled the shortcomings of the public administration - but that this is a country challenge, that it is a people challenge and that among all of us we have to contribute our granite sand in order to be able to get out of this situation. When there is a situation like this, one of the key issues as a fundamental element of public health is to protect the population, and here we adopt a measure that was the minimum living income. And what was the mechanism of cooperation in order to guarantee social protection to the most vulnerable population in Madrid articulated from the Community of Madrid? I will say this with one word: sabotage; sabotage with letters of terror to people who cannot fill the refrigerator telling them that they were going to withdraw the minimum income of insertion, whether or not they would have collected the minimum income of life. [[Rumors]] That is unacceptable from a democratic point of view! That's unacceptable! [[Applauds]] As I say to you, it is unacceptable that from the Community of Madrid the recipients of the minimum living income should be excluded in order to have access to the school canteens. It's enterprising, enterprising! [[Applauds]] Attack the Government, attack the Government without decorum and do not give the Government a truce, but respect our people and respect public health. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, stood up, and from the members of the Government]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u14	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday there was another session of control of those who make the people who look at politics at a distance generally look even further away and more uneasily because a divorce is taking place. People's daily lives are becoming more and more insecure, more full of threats and fears: if I can get out of my neighborhood... [[Rumors]] With what your parents pay at a private school, don't they teach you to shut up when someone else is talking? [[Applauds]] As long as people think about whether they can leave their neighborhood or their municipality, whether they will have work at the end of the month or pay rent, whether tomorrow they will change the rules or how we will be from here to Christmas, official politics has been separating more and more from everyday life, as if it had become a kind of private sport and chillion among politicians, journalists and advisors, an increasingly deaf dialogue to people's needs. Yesterday we saw him again, there is a lot of sluggishness and a lot of resources are lacking for public health. So people are tired, they reject politics, what evil everything and everyone, in abstract, and also confusion. The problem is that we are not going to get out of this without people taking sides and imposing a policy that will deal again with everyday life rather than with the problems of politicians. For that it is important to recapitulate and see how we have come here, to a situation that should not have occurred. What happened in Madrid? Before making a chronology I would sum it up very quickly: the fanatical irresponsibility of Mrs. Díaz Ayuso and her government partners has been combined with a political overcalculation by the government of Pedro Sánchez; a failed government in Madrid and a timid government in Spain. I'll give you a timeline. In May Diaz Ayuso insisted on moving Madrid to phase 1, despite the fact that it did not have sufficient sanitary reinforcements, it did not have sufficient capacity to make PCR or had enough free seats in the ICUs. On May 7, the director of Public Health of Madrid resigned because she did not agree with Ayuso's decision to request the change of phase. On 15 May, Ms. Díaz Ayuso accused the Government of a political attack for not accepting the change to phase 1, and already framed it in an unacceptable campaign against her Government. On 25 May Madrid entered phase 1 prematurely, despite the fact that his Government had not done its duties. Mrs. Ayuso in May said she was going to hire a thousand trackers, but we're in October and we have half. He promised to do 850,000 random tests, but one month later we have 5400. He promised to hire 10,300 teachers, but 1600 are still missing and those who have been hired have been made interim until December. At a plenary session on 11 June, he justified the human drama and shame of the senior residences - handed over to the highest bidder for many years - by saying, despite their competence, that he was not receiving help. While Germany had a tracker for every 4000 inhabitants, Madrid faced July with a tracker for every 30,000 inhabitants. In addition, on 23 July the Government of Spain transferred EUR 1.5 billion to the Community of Madrid to deal with the pandemic. We are on 15 October and we are still not clear where those EUR 1.5 million transferred to the Government of the Autonomous Community of Madrid have gone. Let us see if the People's Party can clarify that in the reply. I could be on the list forever. The Government of Madrid proposed the COVID charter, and then retracted. He has an obsession with Barajas Airport, while in Madrid the Madriders continue to travel in crowded meters every day to go to work. What are the results of this disastrous management? As on August 21, the Madrid Community already concentrated one third of the new positives that were taking place in Spain, so the Madrid Government is inventing a magic trick, which is very simple. Today we are told that the contagion has decreased. Do you know why you have decreased the positives? Well, that's very simple, because less tests are done. In Madrid today 100 000 RCPs are made less than 14 days ago - eye!, the source is the Health Council of the Government of Díaz Ayuso itself in the Madrid Community - and so on, anyone, because they turn out to be less positive. Look at you, this has consequences on the daily life of all Madriders. The start of the course could not catch any government by surprise, because it starts every year on the same days. The educational community, teachers'unions and parents'associations were saying long ago that action was needed, and the start of the course was a compendium of queues and anxiety for parents. In spite of what was promised, today it is impossible to report the positives in the schools of Madrid, because you have left the management of that telephone line of public health on the backs of three workers, which obviously do not give enough. It is a reality that the whole educational community and parents know. You have called it the Telephone of Hope. For the 3rd and 4th graders of the ESO and 1st high school, semi-presentiality was established in Madrid through cameras that would allow the boys to connect when touching semi-presential classes. If someone has a camera at home, they already have more than all that the Madrid Community has sent to every place. In health care, we all know that you don't get your phone when you call your primary care center and that you have extreme difficulty getting a test. You know, then, what's going on? The Madrider who can pay for it goes to a private center and pays 140 or 150 euros for a private test. That pregnant women in Madrid do three ultrasounds and the rest of the follow-up with phone appointments. That the rest of the patients who are not from COVID and who are waiting have their operations or interventions no date. Between March and April alone, 50,000 operations have been postponed. Why does all this happen? All this happens because in Madrid the virus takes him especially weak. In Madrid we have had a deliberate policy against public health for almost a quarter of a century. Madrid is the richest region in Spain, not because you give taxes to the rich and make them not pay them, it is that you benefit from the measure of the capital effect. It is the richest region in Spain, but at the same time it is the most unequal. Eye with the dice!, because it's from Public Administrations. In Madrid the difference of life if you were born in a neighborhood of the southern municipality or if you were born in a neighborhood of a northern municipality is up to ten years. Tell me now about meritocracy, equal opportunities and what needs to be done in life. Ten years of difference in life, depending on whether you were born in the south or north of the Community of Madrid. Madrid is the autonomous community that invests the least in public health spending, the third that pays the worst to its professionals - then they say that there are no people who want to be a doctor - and the least dedicated to primary care. Who is surprised, then, that she is the most hit by the effects of the virus? You have a problem with the confrontation of the pandemic, and it is that you are declared ideological enemies, even fanaticism, of public health. At first I thought it was, fundamentally, for his friends to do business with public health - they privatize, outsource and give it to friends - but I think there's something else. They have a sick obsession, because public health is a demonstration that the public works, is effective, takes care of, educates, produces citizenship, produces community, everyone contributes according to their abilities and receives according to their needs, and that makes you extraordinarily nervous. The spokesman for the People's Party had just said that the measures that had been imposed were discriminatory measures and that the virus could not be bordered. And when you put Chekpoint between the popular neighborhoods of Madrid and the other neighborhoods? Wasn't that discriminatory? Wasn't that border? You divided the Madriders, depending on whether you were from a neighborhood with more rent or less. Mr de VOX said that you are not a fascist that you like national unity. And why didn't he say anything when the government that you support in Madrid segregated the Madridns between first and second Madridns, making those who had the most difficult life even more difficult, adding a second difficulty to them. [[Applauds]] You, the Lords of the People's Party, of VOX and of Citizens, imposed on the Madriders measures that you do not want for yourselves and, when the state of alarm generalized some of those measures, you said it was a dictatorship. And before? Not before, right? Of course, because it wasn't their neighborhood; and there are Madridns who are second and can be systematically treated as second. This ideological fanaticism is compounded by a little incompetence. At the moment, citizens expect a ruler to provide some peace of mind. Instead, Mrs. Ayuso has said things like the following: I'm sure it's called COVID-19 because it's a December 2019 coronavirus. Ifema has shown that in hospitals with high ceilings patients heal very well. Madrid is everyone's. Madrid is Spain within Spain; what is Madrid if it is not Spain? It's nobody's because it's everyone's. In Oceania they are seeing that Madrid is a place where you don't have to approach. If we close the restaurants and bars people, because they can't smoke, they go home and take the virus to the houses. [[Laughter]] Yesterday, about Andalusia: In Madrid people do not want to be subsidized, so here comes the best of Spain; says a lady to whom they gave 400 000 euros in the loan of Avalmadrid. [[Applauds]] I have heard extraordinarily harsh criticisms of the Government of Spain, and I believe that it has acted late and that more important actions are needed, but it is that you govern in Madrid! Or, at least, you are in the Madrid Government; I do not know whether you are ruling, but being, you are in the Madrid Government, and it turns out that you, during the most difficult months, have done nothing of what was fundamental. They were busy building a pandemic hospital, when they should have been busy hiring trackers. They were busy hiring priests, when they should have been hiring sanitary and sanitary. They were busy hiring Telepizza menus, when the most vulnerable children needed a healthy diet. They were busy asking for the phase change, when they should be anticipating the return to school. They were busy segregating the southern neighborhoods, when they should have been strengthening the ICUs. They were busy sending reinforcements to the police, when they should have sent reinforcements to primary care. They were busy opening gel dispensers on the subway - I think they no longer work - when they should have been improving train frequencies. And they're still so busy trying to oppose the Spanish government, they haven't found time to rule Madrid. The Government of Spain - in our view - has reacted late. On Friday, September 18, Ayuso made the irresponsible and unscientific decision to confine Madrid segregating by neighborhoods. On September 22 we saw a historic press conference - everything is already historical; every day we have three historical things - a press conference with twenty-four flags and flasks, in which Sánchez and Ayuso said they were going to start work. A coordination group was formed that day, the most uncoordinated one we have ever seen. Emilio Bouza, the newly appointed spokesperson for the group, resigned forty-eight hours after being appointed. On 30 September an interterritorial council was convened, in which the requirements that Ayuso requested - in our opinion, arbitrary - to confine territories were assumed, so that, finally, it would end up without agreement and with the Community of Madrid in the same attitude of disobedience. On the same day, Ayuso announces that he will appeal the decision of the interterritorial council, while on October 1 he demarcates from these resources and the 2 resigns the councillor of Social Policies. Finally, on 9 October and at the gates of a holiday bridge, the Government has to declare the state of alarm. We said on 22 September that Madrid was going to have to intervene; eighteen days of anxiety, confusion for the Madridns and eighteen days lost; and, in addition, eighteen days in which no new trackers have been hired, primary care has not been strengthened, the frequency of public transport has not been doubled. Look, in 1914, Kafka wrote in his diary: Germany has declared war on Russia and, in the afternoon, I went swimming. If we extrapolate it today, we could say that the Spanish Government has declared the state alarm and, in the afternoon, everything remained the same. Some have sold it as if it were going to be a catastrophic event or a meteorite and, in fact, the situation is very similar to what we are. In our view, the measures taken are measures that are late, but come and were necessary, although they are lukewarm. More is needed and, in the opinion of More Madrid and More Country, we must limit indoor activity to the maximum; we must ensure that telework is carried out by ensuring conciliation; and we must strengthen the public health system, because you are not devoting a second to strengthening public health. Do you want an empirical demonstration? At last Tuesday's press conference, Mrs Díaz Ayuso - we have also seen it today in the speeches here - spoke seven times the word freedom, eleven times the word Spain; and affirmed that the problem of Madridns are totalitarian regimes. He uttered the word sanitary zero times, the word trackers zero times, the word primary care zero times. That's the problem. From More Madrid and More Country, we have been taking all the necessary steps to alert the situation that came, to propose solutions and to offer an alternative. We believe that there is a need for a motion of censure in the Madrid Community, but everyone has to know that their votes are needed for it to prosper. Citizens, you have the key, and every time we tell you this, you usually answer with improvisation, you often tell us things that are very ideologically charged, but I have the feeling that you, like many of your voters, are beginning to wonder what you are doing in the Madrid government. From that apothegma of the contemporary thought of Mr Aguado, that of which the Madriders have to choose if they want to be virus or vaccine, I think you have become aware that Mrs Ayuso treats you very badly, that she does not consult you, that she does not consult you, that she despises you, and so much so that you no longer even share the criterion on the state of alarm. I ask you, then: Are you comfortable? Is it really worth sustaining the public danger that Mrs. Ayuso is? In exchange for what, what do you earn? I believe that you are reflecting on your position in Spanish politics, which I respect very much, but I also ask you to transfer that position, that reflection, to Madrid politics, because I do not think you would like to be remembered as Mrs Ayuso's and Mrs VOX's accomplices. Close, Mr. President. I have a feeling, Mr. Illa, that you agree with what I've been saying. Moreover, I honestly believe that you would have preferred the decisions to have been taken by looking more at the ICUs than at the television or surveys, and I think you share with me that it would be disastrous to repeat the same indecision and hesitation in the face of the failed government of the Madrid Community. They have taken action late; take action before it is too late. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u16	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u17	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Seven months ago we held a session like this in front of us, from which came the first communication of the state of alarm at the national level, a state of alarm that imposed on the whole of the Spaniards a very harsh confinement in which we could not think, we could not foresee it, and it was late - it was very late - it was made in disconcerting. Citizens tried to push for the declaration of this measure, it was unilaterally legislated through real decree-laws, it was not sought consensus, but in the end through responsible action of parties, parliamentary groups like mine, it was managed to save lives, it was managed to stop the contagions, it was managed to stop the disease. Do you remember? Do you remember January 2020, when there was a debate here on the right, on the left, everyone throwing stab wounds from one side to the other and we couldn't imagine what was coming over us? Nor could we imagine, of course, that in July, after the official declaration of victory for the virus, made by President Sánchez, we went to meet with another state of alarm, we went to meet with these rebounds, with this second wave. I do not want to talk about guilt - I do not want to talk about guilt, as I have heard before here in this gallery - I want to remember, first of all, the more than 50 000 dead, I want to remind the workers, the entrepreneurs, the self-employed, those who are afraid, who do not know what their economic life will be like, their social life in the immediate future; I want to remind all those Spaniards who have done difficult things - very difficult - that they have not been able to say goodbye to their deceased relatives, but they have - we have done so - because Spain is a serious country, because we are brave people We have not been able to live up to this House, we have not been able to live up to it. The Congress of Deputies has not understood or shared the pain of so many Spaniards, the fear of so many workers. I no longer know what the citizens of us are waiting for, I don't even know if there will be anyone out there watching this debate, I don't know if anyone will be listening to us, I don't even know if this interests anyone, but I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to think about how we have behaved, to make self-criticism and that in this second wave we really reach agreement, to come to terms with usefulness and to behave responsibly, because so far politics has failed. It has failed because it has put forward the acronyms, because it has put forward the electoral record, because it has put forward the partisan struggle and only in the last place it has put the Spaniards, who are the people to whom we all owe ourselves. However, this does not prevent legitimate criticism from the opposition. This does not prevent you from saying that, in fact, it was late for the first wave, which you, gentlemen of the Government, have disbanded from the second wave, which today sounds really ridiculous that song to the victory of the virus that the President of the Government made, which was seen coming since the end of July, which was already said by Citizens. On August 16, we had 6,000 infected. The President of the Government took ten days to react and we were already 7,000 infected a day. And when he reacted, at a press conference he said, "Well, ask the Autonomous Communities for a state of alarm. There you go, take them. Mr. Illa, Citizens supported the sixth extension of the state of alarm with 300 contagions a day. Can you explain how with 7,000 contagions a day you say that the competition is from the autonomous communities and look elsewhere? Can you explain this to me from a health point of view, from a technical point of view? There's no explanation. He has no other explanation but to get out of the way than to stop assuming the political responsibility of the Government of Spain. When I was preparing this speech yesterday, perhaps in a naive way I hoped that the Government would act with loyalty, with the same loyalty that Citizens demonstrated in the extensions of the state of alarm, that you would not just try to accuse a Government of an autonomous community when this is a national problem, when nine of the ten most infected regions in Europe are Spanish and of all political colour. I expected that loyalty, that breadth of vision, that responsibility for the Spaniards, but look, you have let me down, Mr Illa, I have to tell you. I ask you: Have you spoken the word "agreement" in your speech or the word "consensus"? No, never. He has given us a lot of data and told us that the measures were necessary. Of course they were necessary, but he did not pronounce the word agreement or the word consensus, which is what the Spanish need. Now, finally, I hope that Mrs Lastra, as head of the opposition in Madrid, will come out here to blame the Madrid Government and the opposition to what has happened with the virus. That is called easy politics and I have not come here to make easy politics. Making a list of reproaches is very easy. Some of those who intervened before I made their list of complaints against the Community of Madrid. I could say that it was late, that the warnings of the World Health Organization were ignored, that the massive concentrations of March had to be banned, that there would not actually be one or two contagions, as Mr Simon said, that a committee of experts was needed and their names were to be known, that masks were to be needed and yet Mr Simon said no, that this was to be no more than a flu, that there was a test that did not detect the virus, that respirators were not working and that prison officials were given. Finally, this is very easy to do, it is sucked, but is it okay?, is it good for something?, is this saving lives?, is this saving jobs?, is it good for something doing this itself but imputing it to the Community of Madrid?, do we save someone's life with this attitude? We need the deal. That does save lives, that does save jobs. We have to agree. I don't even want to think about what would have happened in Spain if this pandemic had caught us with you in the opposition. We're not like that. We are responsible people who speak to the Spaniards as older people and not as young children. It is true that there was no instruction manual for dealing with the pandemic. All the governments have made mistakes: by the Government of Spain, by the autonomous governments and - I say, I do not care - by the Government of the Community of Madrid, of course. That is the principle to make self-criticism and not to fall back into those same mistakes, but you refuse self-criticism in a frankly irresponsible attitude. They are subject to the pressure cooker of their mismanagement and their escape valve are the Madriders. For example, they forget that the closure of schools in the Community of Madrid was decreed on 9 March, before the state of alarm was decreed. For acknowledge that it was right; it is nothing; and let us also acknowledge the errors. We owe it to the families who have lost their loved ones, perhaps, for being late. I have asked you to believe that committee of experts, the real committee of experts, the real committee of experts, and you persist in repeating your mistakes rather than recognizing them. There's nothing wrong with that. They missed the self-criticism and fell into the car bomb - you remember, didn't you?; forgive me the irony - when President Sánchez came to say something like that 'cautious and unarmed' the coronavirus has surrendered. No, it wasn't like that. Go to the bars, go to the restaurants, let's climb the economy, go on vacation. They went on vacation when we asked them for meetings, which had to be at the foot of the cannon, which already in July was known to have bursts. Well, then, admit it, it's okay. They were mistakes. Mr. Illa, we'll keep looking for the deal. We will continue to be responsible. We will continue to be helpful. I am convinced that you do not share things that the Socialist Party has done, for example, when the government delegate in Madrid called for a demonstration in certain neighbourhoods, when Mr.Simoncas said that there were many cases in Spain because Madrid is in Spain or when the official accounts of the social media of the PSOE criticized the government of Madrid. Do you know what Citizens did when in Aragon or Castile-La Mancha they were in a delicate situation? To raise the shoulder, to support the socialist governments of these autonomous communities. And Mr Lambán and Mr García-Page, with great chivalry, went out to recognize the role of Citizens; by the way, they also criticized something the role of Podemos in these governments, for us we held our shoulders. Well, that's what we asked in Madrid, Mr. Illa. That is what my colleague Nacho Aguado, the Vice-President of the Community of Madrid, asked you to do, because you acknowledged that you did indeed call him. That's what we're asking the state. That or that we ask the government, to stop partisan struggles, to sit down and talk, to reach an agreement. The state of alarm was avoidable and you know it. On the contrary, what you have done has been to use health measures as a political weapon. You have made us Madridns hostages. You have acted on purely political criteria. They have collaborated in chaos to then want to appear as saviors, 'don Salvador'. This is called populism, it's simply called populism. We have been responsible, we are responsible and we will continue to be responsible. We're still holding hands, but demanding. Let us therefore resolve the problem of the Madrid Community, because we agree on many things, for the most part. We agree to save lives and jobs. We agree that we need to take measures to restrict mobility, one or the other; we are talking, more or less strict. We agree that we cannot afford a third wave. We agree that the economy must be saved. We have to get to Christmas with the traffic light in green so that this Spain of ours doesn't sink. We really agree on the bottom. And we're gonna argue about the shape, the instrument? Is it really important for a President of the Government to publish in the Official State Gazette a statement in order to give the impression that he has doubled to the Community of Madrid? Does this save lives? No, it's the measures, let's look at those measures. My colleague, Nacho Aguado, asked him to do so from the President of the Community of Madrid, told him that the situation in Madrid was worrying, that measures were needed. The state of alarm could be avoided. We asked you in Catalonia with the declaration of coordinated actions. The president of the government said: well, ask me for the state of alarm that I already manage it. In Catalonia, we were talking about opening up the nightlife and suddenly all the bars and restaurants have been closed. Will you also go out and criticize, blame the Government of the Generalitat for having taken this decision just as you are doing with the Government of the Community of Madrid? No, adopt uniform criteria for the whole of Spain. Clearly, we need a national plan, we need those criteria. They will not be perfect, but we will perfect them with goodwill, with common sense, for the benefit of all Spaniards. We need technical criteria, health criteria, criteria that don't smell like politics, because if you go out every day changing the criteria, it seems, it seems, that it's politics; it doesn't look like you're basing yourself on technical reasons. And there must be equal criteria for all of Spain. You quote me from the cases of the foreigner, Germany, Portugal and France, and I will tell you something that hurts me to say, it hurts me to say it: what envy do Germany and France give me, what envy. You know why? Because Mrs Merkel has reached an agreement with 11 German cities, an agreement with 11 German cities, with a lower incidence rate than Spain has and taking measures; and, in France, with those measures that you have told me, agreements have also been reached with the opposition. There is consensus; no French or any German understands that his nation's government is using the virus as a political weapon against the adversary. That's the difference, that's the big difference with those countries you quote me from. Therefore, I ask you again for the agreement, because I do not know how I can explain this to the Spaniards I represent. In addition, the European Union has reached criteria, recommendations. Let's accept those recommendations, we need to get with the green light to Christmas to reactivate the economy. Stop using Madrid as a hostage, as a political weapon, be ambitious, let's save the Spanish, let's save the political battle, let's take whatever measures are necessary; that's what it takes. To conclude, Your Honor, do not use this situation to reform the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]] I know you can't agree to that, you can't agree to that! We're playing it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u18	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u19	I'm finishing up, Mr. President, thank you. We are playing it, and yesterday Poland wondered whether the Commission was going to sanction Spain. Do you know what democratic conditionality is? Do not give arms to frugal countries so that they can withdraw our aid, we depend on that aid. Don't do these things, please, because they do it to the detriment of Spain. We have to learn from this. Let us put aside the acronyms, let us think of the Spaniards, let us use our heads to think and not to invest, let us get out of Goya's painting, "Duelo a garrotazos", in which the Spaniards solve their problems with blows; let us win the word, let us win the negotiation, let us win the agreement, let us put aside the scarecrows.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u20	Your Honor, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u21	I'm done. Promise me, Mr Illa, that this second wave is going to be a second opportunity for politics. I'm telling you, really, having a quiet conscience, having a good night's sleep, it's more important than being right. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u22	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u23	Mr Vice-President, it is not my intention to entangle myself in a partisan struggle debate. I believe that, first of all, we need to talk about the context in which we are in and it is undoubtedly a context of uncertainty, uncertainty when it comes to making decisions on the part of everyone and not just in the Spanish State, also elsewhere. A work, a trial-error development because even the scientific point of view is still involved today in uncertainties and doubts. So, it is normal that in a situation like this where there is so much ignorance - I insist, also the scientific sphere - there is a tense environment, there is a stressed health system, there are plans that must be remade in the face of new data or unexpected cases. That's happened so far and it's going to happen again. The basis must be science, that is unquestionable, but we cannot pretend that this means not making decisions from politics, of course we must do so. And in the face of a situation like this, how should we act? In our view, the parameters must be collaboration, interinstitutional collaboration, not a spurious use of political debate and - something that I think is important - humility in the face of the manifestations that I sometimes feel very strongly about on both sides. The truth is that it is a shame that the pandemic situation is being used over and over again - not just in this case -, over and over again as a bold weapon for a political struggle that has nothing to do with the pandemic or with decision-making in this one. He spoke of humility because it seemed that management in the Spanish state was the worst and we are seeing what is happening throughout Europe. France, curfew in Paris plus eight cities, health emergency situation throughout the country; Italy, more contagion than on any day of the first wave; Portugal, state of calamity and limit of meetings to five people; Czech Republic, closed schools, the highest contagion rate in Europe at the moment; Catalonia closes bars and restaurants, restrictions in shops; Asturias back to a phase 2. Humility, humility because anyone can see us in this situation and that should not be a reason for isolation, for pointing out. But what needs to be done, what we must all do from our responsibility is to face the situation, not to pretend that nothing happens. Each institution has its own powers, which it must use. Only in this way can we protect ourselves in order to protect others. And look, he was talking about humility because even the powerful Germany, which seemed to be a fortress on this issue and during the pandemic, the Chancellor herself has pointed out that it is in an exponential phase, literally saying so. And tensions between the Länder, very important tensions, tensions over the measures taken by each other, the movement between some Länder and others have arisen - and in this I would like to make a comparison with the Spanish State as well. Yesterday there was a meeting of all the leaders of the Länder and of the Chancellor, a meeting at which parameters were adopted which would serve as a reference for all and which, when overstepped, must come in by the competent ones - which are the Länder - restrictions, restrictions which have been agreed and commented upon. Therefore, each in its competence, tensions exist everywhere in complex States but tensions are solvable. Each in his or her competences and in this situation mutual cooperation. We grasp the concept of co-governance in the last extension of the state of alarm. I think that's what the dialogue is all about. If one of us does not face its specific responsibility, its competences, and does not exercise transparency on the one hand to the citizenry and on the other hand to the other institutions, we will have a problem, but we will have a problem all of us, all of us. I insist: competences, dialogue, facing up to our responsibilities, exercising transparency with citizens and with the other institutions. And transparency is also not to give data that are not true, as Mr Casado did, for example, the other day by referring to the Basque Autonomous Community as regards the data of contagion. On September 30 there was an interterritorial council, but this was preceded by something that, certainly, in our view, is unusual. A pact had previously been reached between the Madrid Community and the Spanish Government on what measures should be taken, and those measures were taken by the Inter-Territorial Council. It is not usual, of course, nor does it seem very normal to agree, and to make public, measures with an autonomous community and to take them to the Inter-Territorial Council in order, in principle, to impose them on the rest. And when it comes to discussing the next day, on 30 September, it turns out that Madrid is unravelling and voting that it is not. I'm just describing the facts, I'm not saying anything else. Measures are agreed, which are also intended to impose on others, and on the day they are discussed and voted on, one of the parties disagrees with what had been brought to the inter-territorial council table. However, a number of parameters and conditions are agreed for populations of more than 100 000 inhabitants, so that if these parameters are objectively exceeded, the competent authorities will take certain measures. What happens next - and I think it is important to point it out for the consequences that may come later in the future -? There is an order from the Health Council, reluctantly, but there is an order applying those measures. But where are they going to support her? The Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System of 2003 hangs instead of the Organic Law on Special Health Measures of 1986, which had been used by all the autonomous communities that had previously needed to confine populations, and important populations in some cases. And all these orders of the autonomous communities based on the 1986 Act, the Organic Law on Special Measures in Health Matters, have been ratified by the courts of justice. Therefore, there was a basis and there is a basis to do so. In this case it has not been so because it has been based on the Law of Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System and the party that is at the head of the Autonomous Community of Madrid it is the one that resorts to its own norm. There is a situation that, in fact, could have been avoided more than likely. From our point of view, there are a few conclusions that we would like to make very clear - and I only confine myself to the facts and facts; I will not enter into your partisan discussion -. Conclusion: Health legislation is sufficient to confine areas or cities without resorting to state of alarm. This has been endorsed by the courts. We therefore have sufficient legislation. By the way, I was a little surprised to hear Mrs Gamarra say that they are defending an amendment to health legislation now, urgently, when I heard Mr Casado say here in the debates on the extension of the state of alarm that there were enough laws, that there was no need. He said that, for example, in the debate on 6 May, but on 16 May the People's Party also points out that there is an alternative to the constitutional exceptionality of the state of alarm, he says: In the legislation in force, to maintain the health protection measures of all with transparency and rigour. I agree with that, there is a basis in the current health legislation. The state of alarm is there, it's another measure, but it must be the last resort. Moreover, I would say to you that by confronting everyone, all the institutions, their responsibility, the logical thing would be that the authorities of the autonomous community itself - there could be another case, but normally it will be the autonomous community - are those who request the state of alarm, if they understand that they need the legal instrument, leaving in the hands of the Presidency of the corresponding autonomous community the command of the measures to be taken. This is how we understand it, acting from responsibility and, as an extraordinary exercise - although we think and have been demonstrated and ratified by the courts of justice in some communities and others that current health legislation is sufficient -, if necessary under some circumstances, the autonomous community itself could pull out of that instrument, but retain its powers. That using as an excuse the artificial conflict - the artificial conflict - provoked in Madrid they intend to re-centralize competences is something unjustified and, of course, we will never support it. This is our position. We have the necessary legal means, if we act responsibly in the exercise of our own competences, and the basis has to be collaboration and transparency, not using the pandemic for the general policy debate - it is unacceptable that this be done - and humility in the face of a situation of unpredictability in the evolution of the pandemic and in the situations to which we can all be seized. Any institution, any locality, any autonomous community can be seen in a compromised situation, which now cannot even foresee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u24	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which has its turn on this point.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Before, when I was getting in a cab and wondering if I was a Member, I would say, yes, and I would answer proudly, wouldn't I? Now, when you take a taxi in Madrid and they ask you: Are you a deputy? Answer: Yes, and then the taxi driver doesn't pull out a machine gun because he doesn't have it, but he starts getting us all in the same bag. It's horrible. What has happened in the last two weeks is regrettable. There is a saying that says: hell is stoned with good intentions. No one can doubt that the ministry and the government of Madrid have good intentions and that no one wants people to get infected and this to go wrong, but the show has been absolutely unfortunate. When we were locked up all the citizens of this country, on islands like La Graciosa - which Carolina Darias and I know and where there has never been a case - where there are small houses and they are separated, the citizens could not leave their home and did not walk. There was no case, but they endured the two months as champions. The same has happened in El Hierro, in the Altos de Vilaflor or in the villages of Galicia, because we were all united and people believed that we were doing our best. And we all admit that, in the face of an unknown fact, mistakes could be made. But now we cannot make the same mistakes again and, above all, distress people and not seek solutions. My political strength and I have been responsible, I tell you more, in the Canary Islands we were thrown out and ruled the PSOE with Podemos and we have closed ranks there. Yesterday I defended Minister Illa because he caught me a person from here and said no, it is that a philosopher cannot carry the healing. In Canarias Blas Trujillo, the counselor, is a lawyer, what happens is that the politician has to surround himself with experts and good people. And in the Canary Islands we did one thing that has not been done by the ministry or other communities, which is that an expert committee was created with names and surnames that we all know - Antonio Sierra, Amos García, Cabrera - that sign and face. And the canaries know when decisions are made. Things are happening, Minister, which are not logical. I tell you several of them because I take advantage of this. You say that you make the decision because Madrid had not acted and you said that no one can leave Madrid unless it is justified and no one can enter Madrid that is not justified. Well, I'm on four plane trips and, as I'm so compliant, I'm going with my convocation role for Congress and my canary residency certificate, but no one has asked me why I was leaving Madrid or why I was entering Madrid. It's absurd. They make you keep a two-metre queue to get on the plane, on the plane we're getting kicked - as I said the other day - and I've been talking to the Ministry of Development for a month - and I told you - and there's no order to be banned from eating on the plane. I'm going on the plane for two and a half hours with the people who take out the mouthpiece, put it on top, without mask, surrounded by eight people without mask for two and a half hours and people coming in with valve masks. I speak to the commanders of the plane and they say to me: In order it is not forbidden to eat and not to let on the plane corresponds to AENA. Look, the Canary Islands were for three months - the rest of the Members do not know - without being able to travel between islands, we had to justify even if we were going from one island to another, and in the Canary Islands we had to go in and out with a role that also justified it; for three months, as champions, which did not happen in any autonomous community. For two weeks now - and I am telling you because of my direct environment and that of the Mixed Group - both in Catalonia and Madrid are not making PCRs to direct contacts, no longer, unless they have symptoms. Do you know what people are told, Minister? Let them keep quarantine for ten days. And you know what happens? That quarantine doesn't give you the job. And you know what happens? That people don't keep quarantine because they have to eat. Or we also solve the social issue in Madrid, Catalonia and the Canary Islands or the people who are asymptomatic and who have not made it PCR will go to work, because you can't call your boss and say: I have to keep quarantine but I haven't made the PCR or given me a piece of paper. Let's do that. More stuff. Criteria. You say 500, but you haven't explained to the Spaniards why 500. For example, in the Canary Islands we are horrified to have 86, which has set us an example. In the Canary Islands we have to have 40 in order to open the markets. Germany has been shocked by the fact that it has 70 per 100,000 inhabitants. So, why, 500, 450, 200...? We're bonding with the citizens. The citizens have an incredible capacity for sacrifice, but we have scientific and technical knowledge and we start from it and, if there are any complaints, we have it in the office, and when we go out we just say: I do not agree, but in the end this decision has been made. But no, as in the end we leave the communication in the hands of electoral strategists, Ivan Redondo and Miguel Ángel Rodríguez are the ones who are fixing the war in this country, the tensions. Of course, we cannot continue with this dynamic, very difficult times come in the coming months. I'm still with more stuff. Marcos Lechet, you know who he is, a canary boy defending masks not for the deaf, but for the people who care for the deaf. We have a problem in the education system, Minister of Education, and in the health system. They say, we're on it, we're on it, we're on it, we're on it, we're on it, we're on it, we're on it, we're on it, we're on it, we're on it, we're on it, we're on it, we're on it, we're on it, That's a priority, there are thousands and thousands of deaf children, there are thousands and thousands of deaf citizens who go to health centers and those who have to have these masks are doctors, health professionals and teachers. Let's get on it and do it. Mr Garzón, the Consumer, you, Minister of Health, the Minister of Education, solve that! I'm trying to contribute to them. And I end up with something that, really, Minister Carolina Darias knows how important it is. We are in the Canary Islands asking for PCRs in origin and destination. It is very easy to mount it; the cost is no problem because we are talking about losing billions, but not only that, the Canarian businessman is willing to finance it. You claim that it is Brussels, by agreements with countries. That is a lie: in Sicily it has been since August, in Sardinia it is, in Madeira it is, and it turns out that someone can come from Madrid or Barcelona, that there are 1000 contaminated per 100,000 inhabitants, and neither Finland nor Norway comes. We are dedicated to telling the countries that the tourists come to the Canary Islands who are retired, the English and the Germans, but we say that those of the Imserso cannot go to the Canary Islands when the contracting companies - I finish already, Mr President - had said that they solved hotels alone, and it is safer a retired from Madrid in Tenerife or in La Gomera than elsewhere. And what's going on? That the pensioner of Madrid or Barcelona who has money can go to the Canary Islands, but that of the Imserso cannot go. What I want to say is: let us put our heads together, let us surround ourselves with teams, set priorities, and you will have us, not only the political forces but also the citizens of this country, in economic matters, in the coming times, who will be horrifying. And above all, transparency of the autonomous communities, not only good will, good forms, because...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u26	Mrs. Oramas, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u27	I'm done. ...if one of us doesn't want to fight, there's no fight. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u28	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u29	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I want to begin this intervention by showing our solidarity and respect for the victims, for all the people who are currently suffering from the disease, for their families, for those who have lost loved ones on the road to this unfortunate virus, and also for all the people who are suffering from a devastating economic situation, which are many in our country. I want to start like this because I think we're dehumanizing all this. I believe that we are entering into political disagreements, cheap policy debates, regattas that no one understands anymore and it is time to put at the centre what matters. What matters is where we are taking the country, what is happening many people and what they have suffered and are suffering many citizens in Spain, and that must be at the center. Look, Your Honor, a manager or any executive of a company or a corporation who's looking at his management, he's measured by the results, and if we look at his, we realize that they're record results. You have the record of contagion, you have the record of being the country with the most deaths per million inhabitants; we are the country with the most infected health care, and we are the country that has managed the worst pandemic not only once but twice. We have already had the opportunity to share many debates in the committees and I have not heard you assume any responsibility, and I do not know if you begin to understand that the Minister of Health in Spain is you, Mr Illa, and that it is you who has to make decisions and guide health policy at a time like this. And so far I've only seen responsible search in orbits other than the government and ideological orbits other than the Socialist Party. And I'd like to hear from you an analysis of why you think we've come this far, because I haven't heard it yet and we've been sharing debates for months. I'll tell you why I think we've come this far. We have come this far because we have a minister of health who has proved to be incompetent, who has put the political agenda before public health, who has hidden reports and who has invented experts. That's what we have. And when he's outdone this whole situation, he's put on an autonomist costume to mask his incompetence, he's passed the hot potato to the autonomous communities, and he hasn't taken on a single management responsibility. In my opinion, this explains that Spain not only has the dubious honour of being the worst country to manage a pandemic in the first wave, but we have endeavoured to demonstrate to the world that a second time was possible. And now we are talking about Madrid not to talk about Spain because you are responsible for health in all of Spain. But, of course, I come from Navarre and quite enough we have the shipwrecks talking about ourselves, that we have catastrophic and, above all, absolutely unjustifiable data. And it is true that there are parties that ask you to take action in Navarre, I ask you otherwise and I give you three reasons why I believe you do not have to take action in Navarre. Firstly, because I share that the situation in Navarre is not comparable because our population density and because our way of communicating is very different from that of a large community such as Madrid, as it can be Catalonia or as it can be Andalusia. They have nothing to do with those figures comparatively. Secondly, because I believe that it is not time for alarm states anywhere, that it is time for responsible management and for each one to assume their responsibility, but do you know how that is done? Coordinating with clear criteria and not getting up every morning and improvising criteria, by the hand of experts, those you first invent and then dishearten. Because fifty-five scientific societies have come out to say that they do not feel heard by the Government. Thirdly, the reason why I think you do not have to act in Navarre is because we have enough of the mismanagement that Mrs Chivite is doing so that you will now come to us. All we needed was for you to come to us now! And, of course, it is true that I think they do not have to act in Navarre, but I would like to hear a reflection on why they believe that in Navarre we have come to these figures because we feel absolutely inexplicable. Our population density does not justify it, nor does our communications system justify it. Sometimes it is said that this virus attacks low incomes more and, of course, our community is not a low income community. How can it be explained that today Navarra is one of the worst data communities in all of Spain? I can only understand this from the disastrous management of the Government, of the Government of Navarre, in this case. Mrs Chivite has acted late, has taken all the steps on time, has improvised, has gone hand in hand in solitary also without listening to the experts, without seeking dialogue with the opposition forces and without listening to them. That makes us have such unjustifiable issues as that the cumulative incidence, and I give data from the day before yesterday, is 625 in the last seven days, that in our community the contagion has increased by 45% in just seven days, that hospitalization has increased by 43% in just seven days and that the rate of positivity has been even almost 18%, today it is 12.5%. It is that they are unjustifiable data for a community like Navarra, a community that has a powerful health system that, for starters, is a legacy of UPN governments, a powerful sectarian system. What failed here? Well, the government has failed. A chaotic management by a socialist president to whom you say nothing because it belongs to your party. But I'd like to hear an analysis from you from this community. I'll give you an example. When she started school, Mrs. Chivite insisted that she had to start in the first week and almost all at once. What happened? The situation was so overwhelmed that they failed to comply with their own protocols. It took four days to carry out PCRs, it took three days for PCR results, and it was wrong to confine schools, which caused schools to remain uncontained, and they had to be confined. That is the management of the Socialist Party in our community. It's over, Minister. I told him that it is not time for states of alarm, that it is time for a government that manages competently and that does the favor of stopping this virus from unity, because on this path we are not only being the champions of contagion, but we are going to be the champions of misery, and we just have to listen to the International Monetary Fund say how the Spanish economy is going to be the worst that is going to be behaved from all over the world or that in two years we will not have recovered even a tenth of the unemployment rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister of Health. The Government returns, wrongly, to propose measures that will return us again and again to the same vicious loop that began to be perpetrated seven months ago, but on this occasion accentuated by discrimination between autonomous communities and focusing on that of Madrid. More than fifty thousand dead after and on the way to the million infected, how can you discuss the data of the Community of Madrid who on 31 January predicted that Spain would have no more than some diagnosed case? As I argued in this same rostrum on the occasion of the debates on successive alarm decrees, I repeat that there is a plan B, and it is the one that is set out in ordinary legislation for the State and autonomous communities to act in coordination, without the need to resort to these exceptional states, and much less when it is now, as a whimsical reaction, with totalitarian aromas, in the face of forceful judicial decisions that have evidenced the intolerable sectarianism of the government of Pedro Sánchez. These measures taken against Madrid persist in dealing with this issue in a disoriented and erroneous way, dangerous in economic, social and health terms, using the laws tortically to make a bad policy, harming some or benefiting others, depending on their political affiliation. What credibility do the measures that today support a minister and an expert whose decisions have found the whole world that have led Spain to be a world leader in COVID-19 contagion and are now so again? Ladies and gentlemen, in the Moncloa, the apparatus of manipulation and propaganda continues to falsely situate on 11 March 2020 the beginning of the government's response to the pandemic, when it is notorious that the WHO alerted weeks before its spread through Spain, when the Executive not only did not deploy any action, but encouraged from the blue bank marches and mass activities of all known, bordering the danger of the contagion, for which the Community of Madrid, however, had already taken preventive measures by closing the schools. In full new normality and when the cloudy blacks of the second wave of the coronavirus began to see themselves, the Government decided to enjoy the summer leaving in autonomous hands a responsibility that the Organic Law of Public Health of 1986 and the General Law of Public Health of 2011 grant to it mainly when it comes to health crises as serious as this one although it could count on autonomous collaboration. And now that the dark predictions have been confirmed, the Government decides to resume the reins of the problem, but discriminating, because it is public and notorious that the numbers of contagions in Madrid have been similar to those in other regions, if not inferior. What kind of delays does the Minister of Health attribute to Madrid, after taking the government, with its president at the head, a month's vacation and after proclaiming that we overcome the pandemic and that the Spanish get stronger? It is the Government that has wasted precious time on providing precise legal tools to help combat COVID-19. Instead, it has occupied us with about 250 piecemeal, short-term and erratic rules, including state-of-the-art emergency policies, which have led to the perplexity of legal operators and citizens, when we should have concentrated all efforts on alleviating the disease. I conclude, Mr President, because, however, the Government has opted for the irresponsible policy of more wood against the Madrid Community and I would like to express my rejection and my disagreement with this attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u32	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, almost late. The truth is that there are not two people who read the same book or see the same picture or hear the same words. Here we know very well that every time every word we hear, every sentence we hear is filtered by the sieve of our individual or familiar situation of our personal experience. That is why when we come up to this rostrum we all have in mind people with different lives and trajectories to whom we want to direct our words. And I was listening to Mrs. Gamarra and wondering who she was talking to, who she was talking to. I also wonder many times when I listen to Mr. Casado, because who believes that at the worst time in Spain and the more unity it takes will be satisfied with that cascade of words full of division, hatred, hyperboles to which we are so accustomed? Of course, I do not think that it is the health staff, Mrs Gamarra, who are leaving their skins to take away from us all the shadow of March and expect from all, but above all the People's Party, something more than this exercise of radicalism which seems to have already been used to. Nor do I think that I am pleased with the vast majority of Spaniards, who are far from those ideological, increasingly extreme, positions in which the People's Party has decided to settle. By the way, the President is not here today because, as you know, he is on the Council. I'd like to know where Mr. Married is, who has nothing else to do, nothing but be here. [[Applauds]] I believe that at this point it is clear to all that the People's Party speaks only for an audience, for the extremism it wants to attract back to its party, even at the price of dragging its party to extremism. That is why again today, and I say this with deep sorrow, we have attended another rosary of excesses, disqualifications and manipulations, which serve only to please that audience to which the People's Party is so eagerly seeking, an exercise of anti-politics that the People's Party is willing to turn into the only legacy. The People's Party has become the most extremist party, and married Paul has become the most extremist leader in the history of the People's Party, and it was not easy. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Today, at this very moment, as the People's Party exhausts all its time in insults and confrontations, there are thousands of mayors, councillors, councillors and autonomous presidents who throughout Spain are working to help their neighbours and deal with this pandemic; mayors and councillors of both parties, of all political parties, who do not have time for these games of bad politics in which the People's Party and Mrs Ayuso have embarked and to which they want to drag us all; mayors, councillors, councillors and presidents who have been working for months to stop this pandemic and who deserve the recognition and gratitude of all of us, and from this house of national sovereignty I want to transmit it to you on behalf of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Politics in Spain does not correspond to the image that the People's Party and Mrs Ayuso, under their orders, want to present. The image of confrontation and division that some strive to cultivate and achieve does not correspond to a country like ours, in which the institutions work, in which the Minister of Health, Mr Illa, speaks to the councillors of the different autonomous communities almost daily and with total normality, in which the President of the Government has met with the presidents of the autonomous communities more often than no other president in our history. The reality of politics in Spain is that of institutional loyalty. The reality of politics in Spain is that of responsibility. That is the good policy, which does not give headlines, but knows how to deal with problems. The institutions work, but that is something I think we all know, even if the People's Party strives to make it look like something else. That's why Ayuso turns politics into a barrier of confrontation and division that only the People's Party - good, and the far right - wants to stir up, because no one else is heard. There are seventeen autonomous communities and over 8,000 mayors in Spain, but only Mrs. Ayuso and the People's Party are heard. [[Applauds]] The problem is that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, lead a party that has ruled Spain and your words have consequences far beyond the walls of this room, because when insult and disqualification occupy this rostrum or the seats while others intervene democratic institutions resent, citizenship moves away and extremism widens, and the damage that the People's Party is doing to the institutions in these hard months for the country is immense. The People's Party in Madrid should have as a priority the fight against the virus. However, its priority is to attack the government of Pedro Sánchez, and now also, by the way - and Mr Errejón reminded us - to attack the Andalusians, of those who say they live subsidized, and it is already a festival of humor that Mrs Ayuso says of a people like the Andalusian who lives subsidized. She, that of Room Mate, that of the 400 000 euros of Avalmadrid ; to the Andalusian people, that is a working and honest people. [[applause]] Look, stop fighting the Spaniards. [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mr. Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u34	Mr. Gutierrez, I call you to order. Ladies and gentlemen, remain silent, as all other speakers have been respected in your speech, so please let us continue as we were in the sitting and respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Leave the confrontation and start working for the Madriders, which is about time, because, as much as you turn to the words, reality is clumsy and there are questions that leave you in evidence. Where are the trackers? Where are those trackers Mrs. Ayuso promised? Where are the doctors and the health personnel you said you were going to hire? Where are they? Why has primary care not been strengthened, which is the first barrier to the pandemic? Why are health centres still closed? Why have it taken months to launch the Radar Covid app? And if you have not hired tracers or doctors or health personnel and keep the health centres closed, I would like to know what happened to the EUR 1.5 billion that the Spanish Government has given you to deal with the pandemic. [[Applauds]] Across Spain and across Europe hundreds of cities are adopting restrictions to curb the virus. At the same time that Mrs Ayuso said that restricting movements in Madrid was little less than totalitarianism, measures were applied in León, Palencia, Zaragoza, Orense and Huesca. In Paris, measures with a much lower incidence began to be taken, in Berlin with only fifty cases per 100,000 inhabitants, in London with just over forty cases. But in Madrid, with up to ten and fifteen times more, the People's Party and Mrs Ayuso strive to say that everything is going well and that nothing needs to be done. Look, it's raining on wet. When Madrid needed doctors, you hired priests; when it needed primary care, you started building a hospital; when Madrid needed to fight the virus together, you segregated the city into neighborhoods: measures not only unfair, but also useless. Cities across Spain are taking restrictions, they are fighting every day, they are making difficult decisions that mayors and presidents are trying to explain to their citizens, while the mayor of Madrid on the eve of a bridge says that people go wherever they want, as he did last week. Is that the People's Party's solution to the pandemic, everyone there and the rescue who can? And when the Spanish Government says that something must be done in Madrid, that the pandemic must be stopped, just as other cities throughout the country, across Europe, the People's Party and Mrs Ayuso are shouting in the sky and saying that it is an operation of harassment and destruction. Let us see, do you really believe, Mrs Ayuso, and members of the People's Party, that all Europe - France, Germany, England -, also the United States and all the autonomous communities, even those governed by the People's Party, are conspiring against Mrs Ayuso and the Madrid Community? Have all these governments, including those of the PP, in the other autonomous communities taking action decided, in your opinion, to become dictatorships? Are Mr Feijóo, Mr Fernández Mañueco or Mr Moreno Bonilla Bolivarians of the People's Party for taking tougher measures than those which Mrs Ayuso and you defended for Madrid? Are Chancellor Merkel and President Macron also dangerous liberticid dictators for the People's Party? Or do you not know what you should do, what everyone and many cities in our country are doing to protect the citizens of Madrid from the pandemic? Does the citizens of this city not have the same right as those of other autonomous communities to protect their health above anything else? Are Madridns worth less to you than the citizens of Galicia, Castile and León or Andalusia? [[a Member of Parliament: He is not here!]] [[Applauds]] You make opposition with lies of legs so short that you don't need or run. They say that the Government of Spain seeks to corner the Government of Madrid. Look, the Spanish government is only trying to corner the virus in a city where there is community transmission of the virus, with a positive rate of around 18% in PCR and 15% in antigen tests, well above the 10% limit, as you know, and an occupation of ICUs of 40%. [[A Member of Parliament: And in Navarre!]] And, by the way, a counselor who has not appeared for more than four months by the Health Committee. That's what's in Madrid. [[Applauds]] That was why action was needed. The Government had done what it had to do and what it had to do. Rather, the Government of Spain has done what the Government of Madrid, the Government of Ayuso, did not want to do. [[Applauds]] That is why I ask you to stop using Madridns as pawns in your strategy against the Government and start treating them as citizens with rights; first and foremost, the right to health. The Spanish Government has had to intervene because you have not done so. [[A Member of Parliament: Lie!]] In what situation would Madrid be now if you had strengthened primary care last summer? In what situation would Madrid be now if they had hired trackers? In addition to its harmful management, the impact is not only health, but also economic. Thousands of businesses have adapted in these months to the new situation and have done their duties to open up safely for their customers, but you have not done your part by strengthening public health and the consequences we all pay for. The Spanish Government has had to intervene because the People's Party and Mrs Ayuso have refused to take the necessary measures to curb the pandemic, the same as other cities in Spain and throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a phrase that almost all of us have said at some point in the course of these tough months of pandemics, which is that politics must be left aside, a phrase that is heard almost every day and that I refuse to accept resignedly. [[Rumors]] The only sense of politics is to solve the problems we face as a society, and, if we resign ourselves to seeing politics as part of the problem - and, above all, if some are committed to turning politics into part of the problem - we will not only be further away from giving a response to the pandemic, but we will be further away from the citizens, who expect answers from us. I do believe in politics as a commitment, as a lever of change, as a solution and as a response. I believe in the policy that these thousands of councillors, councillors, presidents and mayors practice to respond to the problems of their neighbours. I believe that this country has done great things, that previous generations have hardly dared to dream of Spain in which we live today and which we have raised among all. I believe that the rift, discouragement, division and cynicism have not built any hospitals, have not raised any schools and will not help us either against the pandemic. [[Applauds]] I believe that public health, to which we owe so much, is the fruit of values, commitment, justice and collective responsibility. I believe that at this point more community is needed, not less; more responsibility is needed, not less. I believe that this difficult time does not need less politics, but better politics, a policy that raises and sets an example for citizens, rather than attacking institutions with crisp and extremism. It is our obligation, that of each of us, to live up to the time we live in, and the Minister of Health and the Government of Spain are. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and of the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u36	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for all your speeches, which I am going to comment on by addressing each of the speakers from the various groups that have taken the floor. Mrs. Gamarra, when I hear you say so much about everything and so little about health I don't know if you or Mr. Married talk. You are mistaken in person - I want to think that Mr Married -, so to the greatest extent of your speech, out of parliamentary courtesy with you, that I have always had it and you know it, and out of economy of words, I will not even enter. Let me tell you, yes, you see what they're causing to feed VOX. In your tone, I insist, I suppose you speak Mr. Married. I must tell you one thing: if you speak like VOX, think like VOX, you explain yourself as VOX and you have the same style, Mrs. Gamarra, don't be surprised that all Spaniards think that PP is like VOX. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I understand that it is Mr. Married who speaks for you, and I must tell you, in order to pass it on to him, that I have bad news to give him: we are not going to enter his provocations, his retaliations or his imaginary ditirambos. [[Rumors]] Faced with the proclamations against the democratic left, I hear many right-wing arguments, but not a single right-wing health argument. They've been placed in a photo of anti-sanitary Columbus starring VOX and you, the negationist bloc. I say it well, Your Honor, by this order: VOX and you, because it is only listening to it and we all realize that you are nothing more than the teloneros of the motion of censorship of VOX. Remember my words, gentlemen of the People's Party, you will try to confuse the Spaniards - we are seeing it not only in the sanitary field - but you will not succeed. They won't convince and they won't win, not this time. [[Applauds]] Entering strictly into health, Your Honor, the decree of alarm adopted by the Council of Ministers had a single objective, as I have explained: to give legal coverage to an agreement of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, to give legal coverage to measures that were agreed by a large majority within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System - that is what we did -; measures that have nothing arbitrary because they are the same for the whole country, measures that have nothing authoritarian because they are taken by exercising the coordination and cohesion tasks that fall within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System; measures that have nothing abusive. It is enough to contemplate and make a review, which I have tried to make and which have in some case made more precise some spokesmen, of the measures being taken in our country, some by correspondents of their own party in Orense, Andalusia, Murcia, and others in Catalonia, others in the Principality of Asturias, or, simply, the measures being taken in Europe; in France, where freedom seems not to be in danger; in Portugal, where freedom does not seem to be in danger either; in Italy, where freedom does not seem to be in danger either; or in Germany, where freedom does not seem to be in danger either. [[Applauds]] But I can also quote the Netherlands, Belgium, the Czech Republic and many Eastern countries. That's what everyone's doing, fighting a second wave of a very contagious virus, from which we're still learning things, because, it's true, there are things we don't know about this virus, and hoisting everyone's shoulder. I have missed in their approaches a certain tone of humility and prudence. This second wave we know is not the same as the first wave. We detect many more cases, there is a profile of people much younger, it has a much lower lethality at the moment - of 1%, compared to 12% in the first wave - the pressure on the hospital system, fortunately, is being lower. But it's a second wave that needs to be taken very seriously, because we don't know what's going to happen in two, three, four or five weeks. The PNV spokesman said that we move in a context of uncertainty, and so it is. And citizens are adults and deserve to be told things by their name. And what would not be forgivable is that we should not act and not make such wise decisions as we could make according to the criteria that science provides us, and that is what we are doing and that is what the whole of the autonomous communities are doing. More than two hundred measures have been taken since 21 June by the autonomous communities - the vast majority, if not all - ratified by the courts of justice. It has been done, and has in many cases managed to control the virus; in many cases, with great effort. I referred earlier to the episodes of timers in Aragon and Lérida, Catalonia, then to the episodes of night entertainment. We have been taking coordinated actions in public health to deal with these measures, always at the hands of the autonomous communities. The situation in Madrid has become worrying and what is not acceptable is that we do not act. That is why the Spanish Government has had to take the measures it has had to take. It is a little disconcerting for me that we are sometimes asked - as Minister of Health and the Government of Spain - to respect the competences of the autonomous communities, to do the favor of not being a single command, to let them act, and when we do it we are told that we are going on vacation and that we do not act; and when we act, why we act and we go against and harass an autonomous community. It is disconcerting, Your Honor, this approach you are making. I'm going to ask you to make every effort to defeat the virus. Of course, the management of all governments, including the Government, will have to be assessed; of course, the management of the Ministry of Health will have to be assessed; of course, you have all the legitimacy to make as many comments as you think, but let us now - at a delicate time for our country - make every effort not to overthrow the Government but to defeat the virus. You know - I think you know it and if I do not take advantage of it - that we also adopted within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System last week to set up a working group with all the autonomous communities to commission an independent and objective assessment of how our country has worked with regard to the pandemic. A working group with representatives of all autonomous communities, scientific societies, experts in bioethics and ethics, which will make a proposal in one month of an evaluation process, when to do it, how to do it and who to do it. I would like it to be constructive so that instead of blaming ourselves - I have no interest in doing so myself - we could learn lessons from the future. You know that we are going to do this, but I strongly ask you now to make every effort to defeat this second wave of the virus in our country, which is not easy at all. Mr Steegmann, we are not in a battle against communism, we are in a battle against the COVID-19 virus. [[Applauds]] Please, you who are a doctor do not get confused. You know the real dangers of this virus, you know it as a healthcare professional that it is, I have found your medical knowledge in many commissions. We are not fighting communism, we are fighting a virus, a dangerous virus, which has taken the lives of many compatriots - it is true - which has many compatriots hospitalized, some of them in intensive care units. We would all do well to go together against this virus and stop politicizing this, nor take advantage of the virus to charge against the government, which you have every legitimacy to try to criticize but please do not decentralize. I will comment very little on your intervention, I will only tell you two or three things. First of all, I ask you and, if I may, I demand respect for the public servants, in particular for those who are coordinating the Centre for the Coordination of Alerts and Health Emergencies, which, by the way, you know perfectly well that I did not name it and congratulate the person who appointed it. I demand respect, Dr. Simon and all those responsible for public health in all the autonomous communities and all their teams are people who have been working hours, hours and hours since January, and do so with criteria of independence, professionalism, making or recommending very difficult decisions, very difficult, but facing their responsibilities, facing their responsibilities. [[applause]] I ask and demand respect; you may disagree with what you decide, but at least respect. The second thing I want to tell you is that the main difference between you and what you represent and me and what I represent is that you want me to go very far and I want to build a country in which even you have a place. [[Applauds]] As for Mr Mayor, of the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can-in Comú Ponde-Galicia in common, I share and welcome all your considerations, your words expressed, with the vehemence, if I may, that you characterize - because you believe what you say and this is very respectable - with regard to public health. It is true that a pandemic of these characteristics, as it could not otherwise be, puts the whole system to the test and exposes also those things that we have not done well enough in recent years. It would be very easy for me, even comfortable, to expose myself in this; I don't want to do it, understand it. My role I think is another, my role I think is to look forward, touching the ground feet and now fighting the second wave, but you'll have to do it, you're right. It will be necessary to see which health policies in recent years have been most effective and which have to be improved. It will be necessary to review why in some places where primary care had special reinforcement has worked, with the data in hand, better than in other places. It will have to be seen whether there is no need to strengthen some health systems much more, indeed. The pandemic has exposed these things and I think we all need to get together to make an objective, cold analysis to make future decisions - I care more about this - not so much to reproach what we have done wrong in the past as to correct the things we have to correct in the future. Because there are pandemics and they will most likely continue to exist, and it would not be forgivable if we did not take the right steps to correct this situation. You have made a review of the management of the Autonomous Community of Madrid. Anyway, I'm not going to get into this either, but I have retained a phrase of those that you usually say are quite stoning and that I liked and I have written down because it sums up the question very well. And I am not saying this as a reproach to the Community of Madrid, I am saying this as a general reflection applicable to all: less bricks and more hands. You said it and it's true. There is a problem at this time of human resources capacity, which we will not solve in a week or a month, because you know that training professionals with the right guarantees and the highest level that health professionals have in our country requires a certain amount of time, but it is a good expression, a synthesis of what we have to do in the coming years: more hands and certainly not so many bricks. We will make an assessment, as I said before, of how things have gone. I would like it to be constructive, but I can already anticipate that in this assessment - everyone is saying this; even with such different political positions we all agree on this - public health will have to be strengthened, indeed. Public health has so far had little budgetary weight in the area of health, about 1% or more than 1% in the best years, and we have all learned that public health is very important because it is so important to prevent how to cure and to prevent we need to strengthen public health services. I would also like to emphasise your consideration, which I share, of the solidarity aspect, at least - let me say so - of forced solidarity involving a pandemic. For those who may not believe in the necessary solidarity in any mature and democratic society like ours, a pandemic is a forced exercise of solidarity because either we all go out together or no one goes out. That is why the Government's efforts - which have led my colleagues in the Government, some in this Chamber - in the area of social protection and the deployment of social measures to ensure that no one is left behind have been so important. I think that is also fundamental as a weapon to fight the pandemic. Mr Errejón, your main consideration has been that the Spanish Government has acted late and has been lukewarm. I don't think so, and I'm going to try to argue with you. I think it is not because, from an epidemiological point of view - look at it, I argue from an epidemiological point of view, I do not go into other general policy considerations that I think would also help my argument -, strictly from an anti-pandemic point of view, it is very important that we all go together, it is very important that there are no discrepancies between political leaders, we like more or less the different political leaders, we agree more or less with their political positions. I would have liked the President of the Community of Madrid and the Mayor of Madrid to be together with the Government of Spain or the Government of Spain along with them. And, indeed, you are right, it has been eighteen days since the President of the Government moved to the seat of the Government of the Autonomous Community of Madrid to offer strengthened support, but I assure you that it was eighteen days - perhaps we have been able to make some mistake, I cannot exclude this - from an intense effort by the Government to reach an agreement to go all together, and it was not possible, it is true. I have explained the facts before, I have explained how it was recognized that there was an agreement that could not then be reached, but from an epidemiological point of view it is very important to go all together, and we will continue in this endeavour, we will continue to offer institutional loyalty, we will continue to offer collaboration, we will continue to follow the recommendations or positions of the technical teams of the Autonomous Community of Madrid, which are very professional teams. It seemed to us - and we saw ourselves in the obligation to explain it publicly - that more had to be done. I don't want to be right about anything, I want to defeat the virus. I believe that the facts confirm that such measures have to be taken, not from 500 per 100,000, this is an extreme case, much earlier, as many autonomous communities are doing, and today several examples have emerged in the debate that we are having. Therefore, the effort that the Spanish Government has made and that it will continue to make to reach an agreement, to go together, to recover this unity in the fight against the virus I believe it has been worth it and, regrettably, we had to act; to act simply with an instrument, the decree of state of alarm, to give legal coverage to a measure that it adopted - let us not forget this - by a broad, very broad majority, the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, which is a coordinating body that, when it takes an agreement, obliges all those who are part of it. You have reviewed the situation in the Autonomous Community of Madrid, referring to some of the positions of its highest representative and some of the measures they have taken. I'm telling you the same thing I said to Mr. Mayoral. It would be relatively easy, and someone might think that comfortable, recreate myself on it, but I won't do it; I want to keep my focus exclusively on defeating the virus and everything that doesn't help this try to obviate it. So don't take this the wrong way if I don't comment on these measures. You say we have to take more action. The measures that have been taken are, I insist, for an extreme situation, but of course many more measures need to be taken, and many of them are contained in the early response plan, a living document that we are updating. And it is true that we have been learning throughout these months of July, August and September how to correct some of the actions that have been carried out by some autonomous communities. That's why we meet weekly all the health counselors, to exchange experiences; that's why we have met with the education counselors. By the way, only 1.3% of classrooms in Spain -328 000 classrooms in our country, if my dear colleague the Minister of Education does not correct me - 4500 are currently confined. I think we've all done this together, all together, and I think we've done it reasonably well; let's touch wood, because we don't have to lower the guard. For example, also in the field of culture, where we are going to have a meeting this Friday to highlight the enormous effort that the field of culture has made to be a safe space - which is and I say it here in front of all its lords - where to be able to carry out activities and to be able to continue to give pleasure and entertainment to Spanish citizens. Therefore, more measures, of course, must be taken, but, I insist, the 500 per 100 000 inhabitants index is an extreme one on which action must be taken. He has also made a review of a number of arguments which, if I may say so, I make mine, in assessing what some here understand as a limitation on freedom and as a dictatorial action and, instead, in other parts, when adopted by correspondents of their own government or in other countries of Europe, it is seen as wise and correct action. Let us try not to fall into these kinds of contradictions that they only confuse citizens. Mr Bal, I would like to thank you not only for the tone of your speech, but also for the fact that your political party has always supported the measures of the state of alarm that the Government has raised here. This is something that, at least I do not forget, because it is relevant to know how to combine political criticism, legitimate, with knowing where to be at critical times. Others should reflect on their party's attitude, to change it, of course. You tell me to make the best effort to agree, to go all together. I assure you that this is the attitude we have, for many reasons, of the Government - starting with the President of the Government, who moved to the Community of Madrid - but also, and I have said this before, for strictly epidemiological reasons. The first key element to fight a virus is to go all together, let people see us united. And even if it is only for this reason - if I may be selfish - of combating epidemiological strategy, we have tried and will continue to try to reach an agreement. I regret that it was not possible, but you were appealing to the responsibility of everyone, we had to assume the responsibility that was ours as the Government of Spain, and when we saw that it was not possible, we had to act. See how other autonomous communities are acting and see how other European countries are acting. In my view - there may be different opinions - with what I have experienced and experienced in these months, acting in this way, within the framework of a composite state that I defend, today - although we are still in the fight against the pandemic - has worked reasonably well. Of course, we have seen that there are coordination mechanisms that probably need to be strengthened, strengthened. Of course, of course, we had not taken any coordinated action in public health until now in forty years and we have already adopted four. Of course, the Inter-Territorial Council met twice or three times a year and has already met more than fifty times, meeting weekly at least once. Of course, there were no meetings with other colleagues in Education, Culture and Agriculture, and now there are often meetings. Of course we have seen things that have to be perfected, but it has worked reasonably well. And just one fact to clarify it, not with any other spirit: we adopt an extension of the state of the alarm with 300 cases of accumulated incidence and you tell me that now with 7,000. One of the differences between this second wave and the first one is that we know precisely - and let me take a little pride out of the country; we are the only country that can say this with force and categorically - that in Spain in the first wave was detected a little less than 10% of the cases. Why? Because we did a three-wave seroprevalence study with provincial representation. Now we estimate that we detect between 60 and 80% of the cases, we will know precisely when we do the fourth, fifth and sixth wave of the seroprevalence study, which we will start to do - the fourth wave - in the coming weeks. It won't give us the range of the pandemic, we'll know if we're actually detecting 60 or 70 percent. Therefore, the 300 cases you mentioned were 10% of those at the time and the 7000 you now mention are between 60% and 80% of those at the time. This here and we assume that everywhere. I do not want to enter into any kind of reproach with the Autonomous Community of Madrid, I do have - or we have - the obligation to explain things as they have gone... [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u39	...with transparency. We've recognized mistakes, we've recognized them. I believe that everyone has made mistakes in the fight against this pandemic, we probably continue to do them, but there is one that we are not going to do, Mr Bal, which is not to act, not to take action, not to face up to our responsibilities, because this would be unforgivable; whatever it takes, we have to have courage sometimes, because, it is true, we are not in a predetermined environment and we do not know what is going to happen in three or four weeks. But what we have to do is, with the data we have and listening to science, make those best decisions for all and, if possible, with consensus and loyalty among all. I would like to end by reiterating that the Government of Spain is in a pulse against the virus, against no one else, against the virus. [[Rumors]] And in that we are, and in that we will continue to be, with criteria of coordination, cooperation and institutional loyalty. You mentioned that you envied Germany and France where they reached agreements, because let me tell you that here we have reached many agreements, we have come to four coordinated actions in public health, all but one unanimously adopted, with many measures, more than fifty measures as a whole. We have had a very fruitful dialogue with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and with many mayors. We have also worked together in the field of agriculture with the Agriculture Advisers to agree protocols. We have agreed on a multitude of technical protocols within existing alerts. There have been many agreements and a discrepancy, which we have had to count and which has forced the Government of Spain to take decisions to give legal coverage to an agreement, I insist, of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. Anyway, there we are. With regard to the considerations he has made of other issues that are not strictly sanitary, he does not mind but I must not enter them and I will not do so. Mr Esteban told me that he had to leave, but I would like to thank him for his intervention - please transfer it to him - first of all for placing the decisions to be taken in a context of uncertainty. It is so; it is not so because Spain is different, not because the Government of Spain does not have experts or scientists, not because we do not read; it is so because it is so throughout the world. There is a scenario of uncertainty, indeed, and we are learning as we act and from what we do ourselves and from what other European partners and other countries we are in constant contact with. And science is also uncertain, it is true; it has progressed a lot, it has been discovering aspects that we did not know about the virus, but there are still many others that we do not know. If we do not understand this context of uncertainty, as your honor said, we cannot understand this effort of continuous evaluation of what we are doing and of replanning and updating of documents and protocols. It happened with the masks, it's happening with the aerosols and it's going to happen with quite a few more things; that's right, and the best thing we can do is to tell it to the Spanish citizen, who is a citizen, fortunately, adult. Mr Esteban said that it is not possible not to make decisions, I agree; and he mentioned three criteria which, in his view, must guide them and which I also share: that of the collaboration between the different actors, basically autonomous communities, which have a very relevant role at the moment with the Government and also with the municipal authorities; that of not using the pandemic as a spurious argument in the political debate, I also agree, and I believe that we are making an effort, at least for the part that we have, where that is so, and above all that of humility, which I also share. Of all, of all, because there are things we don't know, because we are learning them, because we can be wrong, as we have been wrong before, and because in an unstable scenario many things can happen. I have already received, free of charge and without asking for them, lessons from: such a country sees how well it does it to see, at two months, that this country was working badly. I have already seen some representatives - never from the health field! - rejoice that such an autonomous community is doing it very badly or very well so, in the month and a half, try to erase the tweets that had been made, because it is an unstable scenario in which today we can be well and tomorrow not so well, and to take breast is not advisable. And let's see how things go, because we have months to go, this is not a matter of weeks. So, a lot of humility. We have to face the situation. Looking at the press this morning, I was also shocked by the expression of Chancellor Merkel, who is a person who comes from the world of science, like Mr Echenique, whom I have also once said in public that he is people who come from the world of science, and he has said: we are in exponential growth. In Germany, not in Spain, in Germany. Therefore, prudence. There is no claim to change the composite state framework that we have or to refocus anything. However, it is necessary and essential in a composite State to have cohesion mechanisms and they must be exercised with great caution, and that is why the decisions we have been taking have always been debated. Mr Esteban has made an account of the facts and I have to say - I have already said publicly on some occasion - that the weekend before the interterritorial agreement of 30 September I spoke to all the health advisers and pressed their opinion on the possibility of such an agreement, I pressed it and tried to be - and if not I apologize - fully respectful of the whole of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, which is an organ of a composite State; with all I spoke several times. I never anticipated an agreement before it was made there, I said what I had perceived: that there was a propensity to make an agreement like the one we finally adopted. Therefore, there is no interest in re-centralizing, but in exercising the coordination mechanisms that correspond to a composite State and a composite health system such as this system, and I like co-governance. Nor do I want to conclude by referring to Mr Esteban's speech without expressing my agreement with the two conclusions he drew. He said: health legislation is sufficient to take action without resorting to the state of alarm. Thus, more than two hundred measures have been taken by the Autonomous Communities; the Community of Madrid itself confined 800 000 citizens the previous week and had a ratification of the Madrid High Court of Justice. Health legislation is true that it is on the way that it has not had to go so far, because we have never had such confrontations, and it is generally working well. Is it perfectable? Yeah. Can things get better? Yeah. We have already improved some of them, amending the Dispute-Administrative Act and making those fundamental rights limitations affecting a community have to be understood by the higher courts of justice rather than by ordinary courts. We have already made some changes and we are open to doing more that can be specified, but it is legislation that - and serves as a tribute, a few days after his sad murder, to Ernest Lluch, who abandoned them - generally had enough foresight and works reasonably well. [[applause]] I also agree with the second conclusion he drew that the state of alarm must be the last resort, the last resort. I believe that an objective, dispassionate and, if I may, cold reading of the decree of the state of alarm adopted by the Government in the Council of Ministers last Friday shows that the Government wants this to be the ultimate remedy. Now, if it is to be exercised, it is to be exercised. On the part of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas, I believe that politics has a very important and very relevant role. We exercise it differently according to each one's convictions - I will never be in the role of anti-policy nor will I pay for it -, we are surely wrong, but politics has a very important role and, in my opinion, noble, at least as I understand it. You, who are a user of air transport, airports, have made some considerations about which I take note. I just want to say that since 11 May there have been 2864 cases detected by the whole system in Spain, positive cases detected imported from other countries and last week 129. It's an objective fact. And as for the contagions in air transport, in transport by high-speed train, at the moment there are very few detected. Very few, very few, do not reach the hundred. But I take note of your recommendations and your considerations. I would like to make two or three more comments to your intervention. It is true that the most important, and also the most difficult, is the implementation of the measures that are decided, in particular the isolation and quarantine of those people who, according to the health protocols, have to isolate themselves in quarantines. This sometimes presents many difficulties. This is why it is so important to collaborate with local authorities, with municipalities and parliaments, because they have a granularity, a knowledge of the terrain that greatly facilitates the monitoring that these quarantines and isolations occur and are carried out well. The Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands has done a good job so far. You don't have to lower your guard. It is the autonomous community with a lower cumulative incidence, and this has been done because the problem where it existed has been addressed, in the areas and in the cities where it existed, taking decisive measures, and it is the best presentation letter to save the tourist season in the autonomous community, having a low cumulative incidence, apart from other measures that, as you know, are being worked by the Government with the support of the Ministry of Health and leading them the Ministry of Tourism and that will soon be launched. Mr Sayas, I would like to thank you for your initial consideration of the risk of dehumanisation that may result from the passion and political debate that exists. Now, I don't know if you contribute enough to this, not to dehumanize, because perhaps the sharpest criticisms I've heard about the time of single command came from you, but just as I hear them now when we're not single command, because we're not exercising, so I also ask you for an exercise, if possible, of coherence. We are in a composite state, which we respect and consider to be doing things reasonably well. When drastic measures had to be applied in the first wave they were implemented with the corresponding mechanisms. When we have to give the role of the autonomous communities and support them in the exercise of cohesion and coordination we are doing so; with material means - you know - we have given 16 billion lost in depth to the autonomous communities; with human means, the trackers, 2000 that we have made available to them; with technological means, the Radar COVID application that is deployed throughout practically the national territory, and with legal means, such as the modification to which I referred earlier or even the offer that when an autonomous community, if it considers it appropriate, requests the state of alarm, it is committed to the votes of those parties that make up or support the Government. So, I think we did what we had to do. As for the Autonomous Community of Navarre, I'm going to tell you something. I have - and it is not exclusive to Navarre, but to all the autonomous communities, even if there has been an incident, as we mentioned today, with the Autonomous Community of Madrid? an excellent relationship with all the communities, also with that of Navarra, and a very fluid contact, practically daily communication, and they are taking measures, in my opinion, correct, although it is not to be ruled out that they have to harden. You know, I'm sure better than myself, that Navarra is the outlying community that does the most testing: more than 3300 per 1000 inhabitants. I think it is at the head of Europe; not of Spain, of Europe. He's done a very good job, a lot of tests, twice as good as the national average. And you know, and it's a very important factor - I don't know if you mentioned it in your speech; if not, excuse me, but if you mentioned it, I want to highlight it -, that, at least with the recent data I have, almost 70% of Navarra's cases are traced, you know where they come from. That is a very important factor: knowing where a contact has been infected. They've got an I.D. on him. You ask: Where? What happened? Well, in social and family contacts, in non-parties. That is where people have been infected in the Foral Community of Navarre, as in the rest of our country's autonomous communities. That is why it is so important - and I ask you to join in this endeavour - to send a message of prudence to the people, especially to those fringes of the population that by their age are more likely to manifest affection. We are now seeing outbreaks, for example, in senior schools. This has to be cut. Perhaps not by replacing university education, but by calling on people to take responsibility for it. Mr Martínez Oblanca, for a moment I doubted whether you were speaking on behalf of the Autonomous Community of Madrid rather than that of the Principality of Asturias. I do not share your defence of the position of the Autonomous Community of Madrid. I share what you said, that is, that we had to act more forcefully here. That is why the Inter-Territorial Council adopted measures to which the Government has given legal cover. I will simply give you three dates that I believe it is important that we retain all and from which we will be able to make the assessments that we consider appropriate. It's three objective dates, which I don't make up, Your Honor. When did the WHO declare a global pandemic? March 11th. When did the European Centre for Disease Prevention declare that there was a Community transmission in Europe that put the health system at risk? March 12. When did the government announce a state of alarm? March 13. And when did you apply it? March 14th. Less than 24 hours between the four decisions. Finally, Mrs Lastra, of the Socialist Group, I would like to thank you for your speech and your support, sincerely. It's very comforting right now. And I would like to share, in order to express my complete agreement with your positions, your reflections on anti-politics. It's the worst service we can do. Politics is the government of the common and the collective and can be exercised in many ways. There are those who do it wrong, but because there is someone who does it wrong, I refuse to discredit an activity that, for the most part, is noble. I also say this by linking with the second comment you have made, adding my appreciation to the multitude of councillors who, anonymously and selflessly, work day by day to improve the situation of the pandemic in their municipalities. That is the policy, that is the policy from which some of us come and which inspires us day by day and hour by hour. I also want to join this recognition. We have met, with the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service, already twice with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and we will do it again soon, to receive their concerns and to recognize, above all, the very good work they are doing. How different it is when a mayor takes the lead in the fight against COVID, as the vast majority of them are doing! How different it is in the cities where the mayors stand up, support the measures, talk to the health authorities of the autonomous community, stand up to their neighbours and ask them, please, to comply with the security measures! How different it is when they put all social media for the fight against COVID, facilitating isolation and quarantine spaces for their neighbors! I fully agree with you in the necessary institutional loyalty, which you know the Government of Spain has always had and will continue to have under any circumstances with the sole objective of fighting the virus without confrontations. You have also reviewed the situation in other autonomous communities and in Europe. I think it is one of the best arguments to see what needs to be done and, above all, not to get confused. In Madrid, the objective is not to reduce the cumulative incidence by 500 per 100,000; in Madrid, the objective is to bend the curve and keep it low, in parameters that can be approved in Europe. Before, in my speech, I mentioned the three cuts given by the ECDC, 60 per 100 000 to start acting - we see that Germany intends to lower it to 35-, 120 per 100 000 and 260 per 100 000. Well, we've got to get down to the 100s. This will require effort, it will require cooperation, it will require the institutional loyalty of all. In this exercise, I want us all to convene. Thank you all very much for your considerations and I look forward to seeing if you want any further clarification that I can provide you with. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in common, and the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The representatives of the various parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u41	Thank you, President. Your Honor, Mr. Illa, you and I have had a lot of discussions over the last few months. I believe that, moreover, we have always done so with absolute respect, that you say you have me and that you have no doubt, I have you. But there is something in his words at the beginning that will allow me to correct him, because in this country women have been speaking to him for a very long time, since he was born, and no man tells me or writes to me what I have to say. [[Applauds]] Having said that, Mr Illa, you are here today to report on a royal decree declaring the state of alarm. He asks me for the health criteria; it is you who must come and inform this House of the health criteria. In your reply you have also not informed us of the scientific reports, what is the evidence on which the state of alarm you have agreed is based. The constitutional exceptionality which you have welcomed requires that there be sufficient scientific evidence to support the proportionality of the measure you have taken and of which you report, not of which the opposition has to report. What you have made clear is that there are no reports that support the action you have taken. And if not, Mr Illa, correct me and tell us whether the alert committee endorsed, on 30 September and 9 October, the measures that you have taken and whether the Committee on Public Health has also done so. It is important that you know this and that you clarify it. Or is it that, again, there is no committee of experts and there is no scientific evidence to support your decisions? Because you talk a lot about Europe, about what the rest of the European countries are doing, but it is that the rest of the European countries take the measures always backed up by scientific evidence and, therefore, proportionally, especially when it comes to limiting public rights and freedoms, which is what we are talking about here and what you have to report to this House and do not do. On the other hand, Your Honor, you have spoken of uncertainty, taking the words of Mr Esteban, and the question to be answered is: Is the Government, in the face of this uncertainty, generating certainty or more uncertainty and gloomyness? More uncertainty and bleakness, even chaos. This is what you have carried out with these last measures, when they decided to depart from the will of agreement, loyalty and collaboration between administrations. You know it perfectly well. You were working until you received that call from President Sánchez to break that collaboration and loyalty with the Madrid government. That's what happens, that's what happens, because, if not, nothing justifies his own words. [[Applauds]] What happened from 22 September to 30 September or to 9 October for you to say that the important measures dictated by Madrid created the possibility of entering a controlled situation? What step did he take to say that he gave his continued support to the measures considered by the Madrid Community, saying that the Government was willing to help what was required, when it did not? Why do you depart from what Dr Simón himself says: that the Madrid measures can be effective, that Madrid makes twice as many PCRs and that evolution indicated that things could be stabilizing? These were his own statements. You turn away from this, from collaboration and loyalty, and go to a framework of exceptionality for the pride of seeing how a higher court of justice does not endorse your decisions; it does not endorse them because you have not adapted to a regulatory framework when you have had time to do so. [[Applauds]] Mr Illa, in the royal decree you have scientific criteria, and these are the ones that support decision-making and exceptionality; it is in the explanatory statement. You know perfectly well that neither then, on 9 October, nor today the Community of Madrid surpasses these indicators. It is below and therefore out of the state of alarm and you have the obligation and responsibility, as a Democrat, to raise that state of alarm and return to normality and return to ordinary law. [[Applauds]] That's what we're asking. Mr Illa, welcome to ordinary legislation, to Law 3/1986, which you spoke of today for the first time here. It has enough legislation there, but if it does not, it will have a proposal here for a law to expand and be able to rely on it. There is no exception, there is no restriction on the freedoms and rights of Madriders or any other Spanish. You know perfectly well that this measure is not proportional and therefore is neither suitable nor necessary, and you have the responsibility to raise that state of alarm immediately. Because you know perfectly well...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u42	Mrs. Gamarra, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u43	I'm finishing up. You know perfectly well you're not going to extend it. Do you know why you won't extend it? Because you do not have enough support from this House to be able to carry out that extension. My question is, will you come back to it later? Will the indicators be changed and will it re-take exceptional decisions with the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards? You have a responsibility to all Spaniards and you cannot handle the legislation at your will, as you see fit. And Mrs. Lastra...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u44	Your Honor, please, you must finish. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u45	I'm finishing up. Mrs Lastra, for radicalism the one who is suffering this party and the president of Madrid. How do you feel about a Member of More Madrid pointing and simulating a shot inside the Madrid Assembly addressing the President of Madrid and the bench? Do you know what's going on? [[Applauds]] That the People's Party has been ruling in the Community of Madrid for 25 years and that's the only thing you can't stand. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u46	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u47	With venial, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr Illa, for the answers. You've done a shadow boxing exercise. That's easy to win, but, well, he hasn't won either. Besides, this isn't about winning, is it? It is about persuading those who listen to us and it is about convincing. I am a little concerned about your hearing ability, Mr. Illa, because I believe that the praise you have shed on Mrs. Gamarra is completely undeserved. It doesn't look like VOX. And, hey, I've recommended two trips, one with paid expenses, to learn, to Asian countries and another to Barcelona, which is so beautiful. And when you resign or dismiss, if once you cease you want to stay in Madrid, this is your homeland. Delighted, of a thousand loves. Look, the best health measure the communist countries have had has been the disappearance of communism. [[Applauds]] We are against communism because it is the best health measure, and you are doing the opposite. I respect public servants, I would miss more, but I do not respect their faults or their negligence. A surgeon or a doctor, if he is mistaken and negligent - and is negligent - can be prosecuted for civil and criminal matters. It's disrespectful. People are respected, of course, but not their ideas if they are harmful or their actions if they are negligent with the result of death. [[Applauds]] In this case, ladies and gentlemen, more than fifty thousand. I move on to a few small proposals, because we are not worried about their position, we are worried about the Spaniards. And look, a caveat. WHO regulations are global, are recommendations, are for all and do not take into account individual socio-economic or health variables. You know it perfectly well, don't you, Mrs. Carcedo? Then it is the power of governments to apply them wisely, which you have not done. They're a kind of coffee for everyone, and those of the ECDC, too. You know what ECDC meetings last: I have the boarding pass and I have to go. If you know, if you've experienced it. They are a coffee for everyone, with skimmed milk, decaffeinated, that does not feed and that above sick. Mr. Illa - I'm finishing because I don't have much time left -, I'm just going to tell you one thing. If you want, then I'll give you all these suggestions. I have already commented on them in all the committees and if you want to study them, apply them or whatever you want. I'm just telling you one thing. They say they want the good of the Spaniards. Prove it right now, ladies and gentlemen of the left. Finance the masks, so the Spaniards don't have to spend a single euro on them. What a silence, eh! What a silence! [[Applauds]] Three things. Massive investment in health, cutting all kinds of useless subsidies: AIReF, 14 billion. Invest in healthcare personnel. Premise them, but with money. Increase the templates, premit them in time. Make a unique and transparent information system, not like the one we have now, which is: stick, stick, stick, cross stick. In addition, using PDF; nor Excel. They have already been criticized in England for using an excellency; when they know they are using a PDF, they will see. [[Laughter]] Massive tests. And something very important: it does not serve any tracking, it does not serve to detect a thousand contacts if they are not detected in time. They are only detected in time when the PCR result is on the patient's cell in less than 48 hours. In conclusion, Mr President. Look, the second wave has already come with you here. The third one's coming, the fourth one's coming, and when the fourth one's over, you know what's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u48	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u49	Excuse me, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u50	Yes, I forgive you, but it has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u51	He cut my climax. [[Laughter]] I'm saying there's gonna be a fourth. And you know what the fourth one is going to be? The new coronavirus that will send us China, because, ladies and gentlemen, epidemics are coming and we need to be prepared. I'm done. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u52	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that this end of the last intervention has been apotheosic. Planting that this is a problem of a judeomasonic contubernium and communism is a little... I don't know what anyone who's been listening to you might think. Moreover, as we have heard from some right-wing force, it is then said that it is necessary to invest in healing. All right, because they have made it clear that it is in healing and they have not said the full sentence. They haven't said the full sentence: in sanity... public! In public health!, which is the central element of democratic articulation, which is precisely what guarantees the right to life of the whole population. [[applause]] I am not going to pose to the reactionary forces in this room even to embrace the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, because there seems to be no willingness to do so, but unfortunately, the need to embrace all Christian values has also been invoked here on several occasions from these groups. Well, then to all those who think that one can discriminate for different reasons in access to public health, I say to them: Brother totti, we are all brothers and sisters. That is a fundamental element in building people's dignity. And I tell you more, if you are not able to accept those principles, at least do the favor of listening to the pope and read what he says about the need to be able to face the future. He tells Christians in the last encyclical: fidelity to God is proportional to love for brothers and sisters. That is, those who raise the flag of hatred, unfortunately, who abandon the flag of God as soon as possible. I say to you why you are not rethinking your position: basically it is because it would be recognizing that you are wrong in your approaches and that the society that you are asking us, which is a society of the law of the jungle, of social Darwinism, the Pinochet model 2.0, is obviously in crisis and is not able to address this situation, because in order to be able to deal with the situation that we have at this time it is necessary to strengthen public services as a fundamental element, to strengthen public health, to strengthen public education, to strengthen public transport. There is a need to strengthen the public, because the private is unable to guarantee the rights of all. At the same time, I think we should be honest. It is true that we have many challenges ahead and very complex and I think it is important that in the face of the challenges facing the people of Madrid there be no false expectations. I think it is very important that we make that clear to all political forces. This is not a problem of Ayuso; this is a problem that we have, as a people, in Madrid, a problem on which we have to reflect among all democratic and popular forces in order to be able to face it and build an alternative to the model that gives health to those who have come to enrich themselves at their cost from tax havens. I believe that it is a fundamental reflection and that it is now up to us, first and foremost, to demand the fulfilment of obligations by all public administrations, the deployment of social rights, the deployment of social policies to protect the whole population and, at the same time, to strengthen and support social organizations and grass-roots organizations, to support associations of mothers and fathers who are fighting in defence of public education, to support trade union organizations, to support neighbourhood associations in building a logic of fraternity that allows us to put on the table that we have to go out of this together and that, moreover, this is not only a challenge for public administrations, but a challenge that we have as a people and that the obligation of those who are in public administrations is to put them at the service of the social majority to guarantee the rights of all and of all. Look, we'll get out of here and shake hands, but from here we'll get out by throwing away those who raise hatred and fear, because they're very clear about the reactionary forces that sooner or later, no doubt, hope will overcome fear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u54	Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the People's Party, I don't see your spokesman, but let's see if you can pass it on and if you can do the reflection. You must withdraw from the Journal of Sessions the barbarity you have said. You have said something extraordinarily serious and which is also false. They have said that Mrs Monica García, a doctor from the Community of Madrid, who has become the nemesis of Ayuso, has pointed out as with a gun threatening someone from the People's Party. That is very serious, in fact it is so serious that the President of the Madrid Assembly a minute earlier had just reproached his spokesman for pointing out someone and creating that climate. You know that it is serious and you are in the usual way, in a policy of gestures that you have to get talked about anything less than the immense disaster that Mrs Ayuso's failed government is perpetrating against all the Madriders. I know we won't agree on this, but, gentlemen of the People's Party, I don't know if there's anyone in charge. Not everything is worth; they have been installed for too many weeks in which everything is worth, and not everything is worth. [[Applauds]] Minister, I thank you for the answer and I understand your tone. Besides, it seems to me that you are gaining heaven with the patience you have. I appreciate your tone. I know that there are things you cannot say, because of the position you are in; I tell you that. I'd like to warn you, in any case, that you're not going to be rewarded with that tone, you're going to be treated as if you didn't have that tone. He has said one thing that is relevant and that I share: that it is important, above all discrepancies, to work together, on political criteria, but above all you have focused on epidemiologics. You see, in the end you have had to take action in Madrid not together. If you had told me: for having waited eighteen days, things have been lost, that in many cases the situation has worsened, that the Madridns have lived with more anxiety, but that, in return, we have obtained a demonstration of co-governance and progress with the collaboration of the Government of the Madrid Community, I would say that perhaps one can enter into the calculation of whether they have been well expected or badly expected, but you see, we on 22 September said that they had to take letters on the Madrid issue soon, and they ended up taking them without the cooperation of the Madrid Community. So what we're actually doubting is not whether it's with or without, but whether it's sooner or later, because 'no' is going to be. There are times when it's better than just being misguided, because you have no loyal partner, you don't have an administration willing to cooperate; you have an administration that takes the citizens of Madrid hostage to oppose the national government. That's really what matters to you, and if not, why do you do press conferences where you talk about freedom and Spain, but you don't talk about trackers or toilets? Because they're on to something else. So you don't really have to decide whether together or alone - I understand it seems desirable to you, I would think so too - but you have to decide whether soon or late, and you haven't missed any signs. The failed Government of the Community of Madrid has been showing signs for a long time that it was not going to take letters on the matter. It has been giving signs of disloyalty for a long time, and it has been giving signs that the public health of the people of Madrid mattered relatively little; it was certainly not the first of their concerns. You have spoken of an epidemiological criterion. If it had been on an epidemiological basis, you would have decided to take action in Madrid on the basis of the 250 positives, as the WHO points out or on the basis of the 100s, as has happened in Berlin, or on the basis of the 125s, as London has done. You yourself have pointed out that 500 is an already extreme threshold. This means that those lost days have not been used for further collaboration, and have only served to arrive a little later. It does not seem to me that this is, however, the fundamental debate. It seems to me that the fundamental question is what will happen next. And what is going to happen next, I don't need you to tell me if you think you are facing a failed state in the Madrid Community Government. You cannot tell me that; neither is it necessary; I am fully convinced. But I do need to be assured that, if things continue to be the same, you will act; that if the Madrid Community Government again asks for resources, those resources will be finalists, because you have to go directly to hiring more health care, to strengthening primary care and to hiring trackers, not anything; that, if you continue to take no action, you will take measures not only to restrict mobility - if the restriction of mobility, unfortunately, is not enough; it seems a lie that in this Congress of Deputies we still have to repeat the obvious - but fundamentally to confront the virus, which is public health. Beyond the discussions about the past, about what could be done, what I want from you is one thing not for me as a Madrider, but for the tranquility of the Madriders as a whole and of the Spaniards as a whole. If the Government of the Community of Madrid remains committed to fanaticism and irresponsibility, will you take the necessary measures to ensure the public health of all Madriders and all Spaniards? That is the answer that can generate peace of mind in Madrid, since Mrs. Ayuso is a factory of uneasiness. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u56	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u57	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon again. We have attended a debate, now that we have heard the replicas from all over the world, which we could hold in this way: Whose fault is it? This debate is about who has done the worst or who has the most guilt in everything. This should have been a debate that took place: What about Spain, what about the Spaniards? What can we do? However, most of this House seems to be installed in the first debate and does not want to hold the second debate, all at the expense of the faults of one, of the other, with the fingers crossed. What I said in my opening speech: easy politics, the politics of always, the retaliatory of grievances. I, Mrs. Lastra, what do you want me to tell you? I'd like to tell you that I'm glad you're right, but the truth is, I'm not happy, no. I'm not glad you're saying things, like only Mrs. Ayuso and the People's Party. I'm not happy that you wondered where the doctors in Madrid are or where the trackers are or what is bazophy was that of the hospital in Ifema. I am not happy because you are trying to provoke me so that I can tell you all the grievances that the Spaniards, reasonably, can have against the Government of the nation for being late for this crisis, and I am not going to fall into this provocation. I'm not going to, because it's not a matter of guilt. But again, you continue to miss the opportunity for this second wave to be a new face of politics for the Spaniards. Secondly, although I see that Mr Mayor is not here, as part of the government, I would like to ask him what he thinks of the state of alarm in Madrid, because I have not heard anything about it. I have heard an incendiary allegation about health, but the opinion on that on the part of the government does not seem to be important. Within this programme of reciprocal grievances, I would tell your ladies and gentlemen to talk about these grievances outside, having a beer in a bar, and not to lose a second up here, in the rostrum, to talk about those things, to talk about the grievances, to see who has done it worse. Of course, what I cannot admit, what strikes me, what would strike me is that someone starts talking in his speech about the disaffection of citizens with politics, and ends up saying that Citizens have to support a motion of censure in the Community of Madrid. It's to go crazy. I do not want to make any comparisons with other motions of censure that we have pending next week. Indeed, as Mrs Oramas says, let us put our heads; that too I have said in my speech. And I also really liked that phrase he said: if you don't want to fight, there's no fight. That means if there's a fight, it's both of us to blame. So, let's avoid the fight, let's avoid the grudge. And I want above all to mention two silences. Who did not intervene in this debate? Neither Esquerra nor Bildu, because they don't care what happens in Madrid, they don't care what happens in Spain. [[Applauds]] If the state of alarm had been decreed in Euskadi, Navarre or Catalonia, imagine the voices we would have heard here. And do you really want to close some budgets with these gentlemen, for God's sake, with those who do not even participate in the debate on the measures to be taken in Madrid? Finally, Mr Illa, do not oppose the Madrid Government, leave it to Mr Gabilondo. I sincerely hoped that you would tell us what the forecast is - because you are responsible - and I hoped that you would tell us - as the Vice-President of the Madrid Community said to you at the COVID meeting you held with the Madrid Community - that you will not ask for an extension of the state of alarm, because it is not necessary, because we can sit down and talk about other legal instruments that establish other measures and agree on those measures, provided they are effective. Because, look, today the main German newspaper headlines: Spain loses control. What does that mean for the image of our country? We have to reach agreements to avoid these headlines in the international press, and certainly the state of alarm does not help, and the state of alarm is avoidable. Let us look at those technical criteria, let us adopt those health criteria, let us adopt the criteria resulting from the common recommendations of the European Union, let us arrive at Christmas with the light in green and not with the light in red. You tell me - and I am very happy - that cooperation and coordination with the Autonomous Communities must be strengthened, but I have been asking since we negotiated the fifth extension of the state of alarm! But if there is not a single occasion for me to meet Mrs Calvo and do not tell her that we need to strengthen cooperation and coordination with the competences of the autonomous communities! Please, let's get to it now, because it's been a long time since we've done all this. Finally, I would like to say to you, sincerely, that from your reply what I am getting is that there are many more things that unite us than those that separate us, that we will certainly agree more that we need to take measures than to publish a statement in the Official State Gazette, trying to make it appear that the President of the Government has doubled the autonomy of the people of Madrid. I am convinced that we can reach an agreement. Do you know why I'm holding your hand?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u58	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u59	I'm done. Because I want you to do it right. As my colleague Guillermo Díaz tells you in all the health commissions - and I tell you with my heart - I wish you luck and I wish you right, because it will be everyone's. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u60	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u61	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a previous one, as Mr Rufián would say. Mr. Bal, I have not addressed you at any time, nor had I thought of it. It is already a constant that you ask me every time you come up to this rostrum, but I understand that you are uncomfortable, because you have become irrelevant even in the Community of Madrid, hostages of Ayuso and of all the decisions he makes, even decisions with which you do not agree. So, I understand your discomfort. In any case, starting with the replica, years ago someone with a lot of political experience told me that there are two types of politicians: those who say what they think and those who think what is best for them. They are also distinguished because the former usually own their words, while the latter end up becoming their hostages. And that is what is happening to the People's Party, which is hostage to its inflamed words and the excesses we have seen in this House day after day. It was so far in those excesses that it now has to make real cabrioles to criticize a state of alarm that the People's Party said in March that it was late and then dedicated itself to comparing it with despotism and dictatorship. But we all know that state of alarm saved and saved lives. In his obsession with confrontation with the Government, even at the expense of the people of Madrid and of the health of the people of Madrid, he has come to maneuver legally even to the absurdity to curb the decision of the interterritorial council to restrict movements, and then ask the citizens to, please, restrict their movements. Because that's what you did: maneuver to overthrow that order that you approved yourself. By the way, you approved it yourself. We have had to hear here that there was no negotiation, that this has been a unilateral imposition by the Government of the nation. The Government has tried to negotiate and engage in dialogue in all possible ways. The Government wanted to negotiate even when it became clear that the People's Party had no intention of doing anything, because the president of the community said that everything was going very well, everything was wonderful and perfect, while the vice president of his Government, Mr. Aguado, was asking the Government for urgent help. They have reached the absurdity within the Community of Madrid. The Government called for dialogue and agreement even when Mrs Ayuso maneuvered, as she said before, disloyally with all the autonomous communities to prevent the implementation of a decision taken in the interterritorial council by a very large majority of thirteen autonomous communities; by the way, governed by four different political parties, including a community of the People's Party. The Government has called for dialogue even when Mrs Ayuso did not even put herself on the phone, remember; she came not to put herself on the phone. The Government has sought agreement even when Ayuso reached agreements that broke at 24 hours. In that I have to say that in the People's Party you are experts: reaching agreements and then breaking them. First, Mr. Married did so until twice with the General Council of the Judiciary. What a word you have, gentlemen of the People's Party! What a word you have! [[Applauds]] Look, all the government couldn't do was cross arms at this threat, and that was the option, by the way, that you chose: to cross arms, to do nothing. I told them before that there are European capitals that are restricting movements at rates of 50 out of 100 000 inhabitants - the Minister also reported -. Mrs Merkel has just decided on restrictions in cities with less than 50 cases. The Vice-President himself of the Government of the Community of Madrid acknowledges that neither 400 nor 200 cases must be dealt with. But the People's Party and Mrs Ayuso see no reason to react in areas with 500 or 700 cases. The PP said not long ago that Mrs Ayuso's management is a model for Spain, which what Ayuso does in Madrid is what you would do throughout Spain against the pandemic. God take us to confession! And I ask the Group of the European People's Party, is the PP's proposal to abandon 67 000 Madridns to their fate, as Mrs Ayuso says? Because that is 1% of the inhabitants of this community. [[Applauds]] Is your proposal that almost half a million Spaniards, 1% of the entire population, should get them as much as they can? Look, we're gonna double this new wave, we already did, we know how to do it, and we're gonna do it again. The truth is that we would prefer to have you, but, gentlemen of the People's Party, if you strive to be the only ones in Spain who continue to divide and confront, we will do so without you. Spain will go ahead, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government, standing, and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u62	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u63	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your interventions. I will, with your permission, make a final reflection. In Europe we are in a second wave, with Community transmission in most European countries, also in Spain. We are in a context of uncertainty, there are still many things we do not know, but we do know that this second wave is not the same, fortunately, as the first one, because we detect more cases, because the profile of the cases is of younger people, because the lethality so far is much lower and because we have also taken measures that help us prevent this second wave. We also know that the way to combat it is with early detection, with many PCRs, with many tests, as our country is doing, at the head of Europe in this area, and with isolation and surveillance of those who have given positive results. And we also know from the accumulated experience of July, August and September, as well as from what we see our European partners do, that we must act quickly, without delay, and with a contunence proportional to the reality and epidemiological situation of each territory; if I may, act preventively even, anticipating us when we see that the accumulated incidences begin to grow. This is what the autonomous communities in our country and our European partners in Europe are doing. The concern caused by the situation in the Autonomous Community of Madrid, which is very worrying, the concern it generates does not come from the legal instrument that we have used to give legal coverage to a decision of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System; the concern comes - please, let us focus on this - from the epidemiological situation, from a very high cumulative incidence, from a high percentage of hospital bed occupancy, around 20%, a little below these last few days, and from an occupation of the ICUs - having increased, and that is to say, I recognise it - about 40%, with a level of positivity of the CRPs of around 20%. This is what is causing concern, not the legal instrument we have used to cover a measure that was already very much needed, by far. I ask caution when evaluating the data, and not rush. There are delays in notification not due to negligence of any kind, logical when there are so many cases; there are delays in notification that must be evaluated with caution, calmly and listening to those who know how to interpret it properly, which are experts and technicians, perhaps also caused by the impulse to antigen tests that some autonomous communities are giving. Therefore, prudence and not precipitation, prudence and not precipitation in assessing the data. And I ask you not to worry, we will assess the Government's actions and you will have the opportunity, often already, to say whether we have done it right, wrong or worse or better. We will assess, if you think so, together calmly what we have done well, what needs to be improved and how our country needs to be better prepared for future pandemics. We will decide this together and we will, but now I ask you to focus on fighting this second wave, and I ask you heartily and earnestly. I do not expect any reward from anything or anyone, I hope that our country, with all of us together, can win as well, as it did with the first, this second wave. That is where I can commit and ask - I also believe that I am in the position, since I commit it - institutional loyalty, coordination between administrations and respect for the framework that we have in our country, which is that of a composite State which, in my opinion - I may be wrong, there may be conflicting views - is functioning reasonably well. I think if we do that, we'll do a lot better. And there they will allow me to say once again that the pulse that the government has is not with anyone, it is not with any Administration, it is not with any mayor, it is not with any city and it is not with any territory, it is a pulse only against the virus, and I ask that we all join this pulse against the virus. By the way, without leaving anyone behind. I've been asked before that I don't forget about those people who need transparent masks, because they have a disability, and we don't forget about them. We are working to ensure that those available on the market can be approved. So, ladies and gentlemen, all together, please, we beat this virus. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Members of the Government]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u64	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u65	We begin with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decrees-laws. First, there is the debate on the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 28/2020 of 22 September on distance work. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Labour and Social Economy has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u66	Good afternoon. I compare before you today to expose the content and scope of Royal Decree-Law 28/2020, which regulates distance work. This rule provides for a form of work which, without being new, has acquired a relevance and a specific weight unknown so far in our country. In order to strengthen its advantages, to guarantee the working conditions of the workers and to ensure that all this consolidates better labour and business dynamics, the present royal decree-law has just been lit up, a rule, as you know, which is the result of social dialogue, debate and pooling, and for which I call today for support in its parliamentary ratification. They will agree with me that the agreement within the framework of the social dialogue raises a question for all of us, representatives of the citizenry, especially in these days, and it directly calls us, it terrifies us, I would say. The question is the one that follows. Is this not the way in which the institutions act, primarily political parties and politicians, in particular? Because I assure you that contradictory interests and different positions between employers and workers in the initial positions of the government were, but, yes, the social actors, also the government, knew to preserve on all things a fundamental issue: the general interest in the interests of the party. Let me tell you that I honor you, that you are quite an example, and as a minister of the Government and as a government we feel legitimately proud. The question is: Is there any political conclusion that can be drawn from such a fact? Frankly, I think so, because this country, its citizenship, is not mistaken, it is in need of dialogue and abhors the rift. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there is still a gap in this House and much dialogue is lacking. With the rift, we run the risk of the institutions being permanently resented. With dialogue, legitimate interests find a single channel, the democratic one, the one to which we owe ourselves. So let us follow that path. Believe me, it's a citizen cry. In this historic moment of the country in which we play so much, dialogue is not a way, it is the only way. With regard to dialogue, with this royal decree-law we are faced with a rule that will undoubtedly mark the future of an essential part of the labor relations of the present century, of the twenty-first century, and will be a binding reference of the legislator in the coming times, by the level of theoretical and practical contributions of the Social Dialogue Bureau that, as I have told you, have been reflected in this royal decree-law. We feel legitimate pride in the country. Spain is today a reference between the countries of our environment in this area, and we have been shown this by our European partners, in particular, for their explicit interest. Thirdly, the social dialogue supports the decree that we have ratified today and that we are defending today. All the effort, all the transactions, all the hours employed have received their fair compensation. And fourthly, this royal decree inaugurates a series of legislative advances in the coming months that will place the paradigm of labor relations at the height of Spain of the twenty-first century, and we will do so as we have done this royal decree-law that I present to you, always with social dialogue, and I have the hope and confidence that it will open the way. That is why I wish, in Parliament, the seat of national sovereignty, to solemnise the gratitude of the Government and my own to the social partners, trade unions and employers' organizations, which have contributed so much to making this possible. The Royal Decree-Law on Distance Work is a rule that meets a peremptory need at this time. The development of information technologies has facilitated alternative forms of work to strictly face-to-face ones. This has been reflected in a clear trend towards increased distance work in recent years, particularly in the form of telework. This boom explains the numerous rules, agreements and documents that have dealt with distance work: ILO Convention 177 on Homework was one of the first, in the already distant year 96; the European Framework Agreement on Telework of 2002, reformulated in 2009, which was an agreement, as you know, of great importance. This agreement has inspired the Spanish rule and also a large part of the legislation that will recently be adopted by countries in our environment. The health crisis has accelerated the evolution of distance work. It is estimated that during the pandemic the incidence of remote work has increased from 5 % to 34%, proving to be the most effective mechanism to ensure the maintenance of activity and to ensure prevention against contagion. Its use, moreover, has allowed to warn and explore in a short space of time its possibilities, but also its risks. The possibilities that open up work at a distance are obvious. Remote work allows a better organization of one's own time, which has an undoubted personal dimension and also a dimension that results in one's own company, promoting a higher quality of work and increased productivity. The regulation that we are submitting to this House today also has a dimension that transcends the strictly productive or labour-intensive one. On the one hand, remote work is related to the green economy, because it reduces displacement and seeks greater sustainability and efficiency in energy consumption; and, on the other, it can promote the repopulation of rural areas and promote territorial cohesion, allowing the place of residence not to be determined exclusively by the location of our companies' headquarters. This is an important incentive to improve the quality of life at local level, whether rural or urban. In any case, it is a step in the line of the demographic challenge facing our country. However, remote work also carries risks, such as those arising from isolation with its consequent consequences in the field of psychosocial risks or even specific forms of violence, such as cyberbullying. In addition, isolation - and this is not a minor issue - can limit trade union action. In turn, the use of computer tools poses significant challenges in the field of prevention. It can trigger technological stress and requires special attention to the specific risks associated with sedentary lifestyle or the intensive use of screens. The company is also facing new challenges in the field of organisation, such as the possible shortcomings in the exchange of information between workers or the need to establish specific control mechanisms. However, the main risk of remote work is the insecurity that has so far led to the lack of adequate regulation. The PP's labour reform, which in this area was limited to article 13 of the Workers' Statute, did not serve either to establish guarantees or to provide security or to enable distance work to deploy its full potential for both sides; a frustrating change, as was the case everywhere with that reform. This royal decree-law emerges to cover this important gap and constitutes, for this purpose, a systematic and comprehensive regulatory framework that establishes a complete floor of guarantees, while at the same time entrusting the capacity for adjustment and adaptation to the social partners. One of the main features of the regulation of distance work contained in this Royal Decree-Law 28/2020 is that it establishes the pillars for the development of healthy forms of distance work. He is aware of the potentialities and problems that arise from complete in-personity, full-distance work, and therefore promotes mixed forms of work organization, in which in-personity and distance alternate and enhance with total naturality. This mixed dimension is reflected in the definition of distance work itself, which is that carried out on a regular basis in the home of the worker or in the place freely chosen by the worker. The actual decree-law specifies the scope of this regular nature, which comes - as you know - when the 30% percentage of distance work is exceeded, thus avoiding the day-to-day effect of some companies and productive sectors. This percentage incorporates a factor of legal certainty and is consistent with the dynamics of alternation between remote and face-to-face work promoted by the Royal Decree-Law. This Regulation also ensures the proper use of distance work through the establishment of limits on its use, both by minors and by persons employed in training. In the case of minors, the presence of specific risks from distance work, such as those arising from physical and mental fatigue, isolation or lack of safety, advise the establishment of limitations, as accepted and required by the Spanish and European Union legislation on the prevention of occupational risks. This is the case for contracts in practice and for training and learning which by their very nature require some face-to-face contact in order to ensure that training or professional practice is effective under adequate and sufficient supervision by the undertaking. For this reason, the actual decree-law on distance work requires that, in the case of contracts with minors or contracts on training or apprenticeship practices, the minimum percentage of invisibility is 50 %. However, the key feature of the regulation of distance work is its voluntary nature, as outlined in the 2002 European Framework Agreement. Only in the framework of voluntarity is distance work configured, and only in it can it be modified with the inescapable collaboration of collective bargaining. In this context of full voluntarism, the distance working agreement is of fundamental importance, because it faithfully contemplates the will of the parties and provides the necessary security in the event of possible conflicts. Therefore, the text of the Royal Decree-Law sets out its regulation in detail. One of the main challenges facing distance work is that of working and rest times. The very nature of this work makes the boundaries between professional and personal life sometimes blurred, which requires that a norm such as this one devotes special attention to it. The main budget of this rule is respect for the right to personal and vital time of people, not only because it is the main purpose of the labour law since it exists, but also because it is required of us by our Constitution, international law and European Union law. The characteristics of distance work, combined with the use of information technologies, require that the standard pay particular attention to the right to disconnection. Therefore, this royal decree-law not only recognizes and applies to distance work the right to disconnection, which is a right linked to prerogatives as decisive as health or privacy, but also provides the necessary framework for this disconnection to be effective. It establishes, therefore, the obligation that the specific schedule should be set out in the distance work agreement, setting up a flexible working time system around that schedule for the benefit of the worker. Flexibility in the management of time by the worker opens up many other possibilities of interest, such as improving training. For this reason, the Royal Decree-Law also amends article 23 of the Workers' Statute, which, as they know, regulates workers' training rights and provides that persons who are regularly studying are entitled to access to work at a distance. This forecast is consistent with the fundamental role that continuous training must play in our labour relations system as part of an effective employment policy that will at all times facilitate the provision of the tools necessary for workers to improve their situation in the labour market. The hourly flexibility that distance work provides also has a dimension related to the reconciliation of responsibilities that the Royal Decree-Law undertakes with the necessary guarantees to avoid the perpetuation of roles of care in women. Remote work is not a special form of work designed to reconcile, and from this budget the philosophy of the royal decree is precisely part of it: it is not a form of conciliation. The pandemic has taught us that work cannot be simultaneous in place and time to care, neither when working in the office nor when working at home. This regulation of distance work seeks to permanently banish the image of women or men trying to care for their children, while attending the screen of their computer. Strengthening this principle of separation and establishing in a clear way that distance work does not neutralize the rights of conciliation is another fundamental basis of this royal decree. Thus, a person working remotely will have the same right to adapt his working day, as a person who works face-to-face. Avoiding the perpetuation of roles of care in women through distance work is one of the transversal threads of this royal decree. In this sense, collective bargaining, which is intended for a wide range of competences throughout the text, should promote co-responsibility and prevent the perpetuation of gender stereotypes. The principle of gender mainstreaming is also applied throughout the framework, as required by the Organic Law on Effective Equality of 2007, incorporating distance work as a tool for the protection of victims of gender-based violence. One aspect of particular relevance in the field of distance work is that of costs and expenditure. This rule establishes the guarantee mechanisms necessary to ensure that the situation of persons working at a distance is equal to that of face-to-face workers, so that it is the undertaking which must adopt and maintain the necessary means for the activity, as well as to compensate for costs related to work or care in the event of technical difficulties. The natural areas for the specific determination of these costs and expenses which this standard recognises and promotes are undoubtedly collective bargaining and the distance working agreement. Both perform the function of ensuring that the worker is adequately compensated and at the same time provide security to the business organisation itself. In this drafting there has been a careful task of translating and applying the fundamental rights and also the ordinary rights of workers to the peculiarities of distance work. This ensures equal treatment at all levels with face-to-face workers, including communication with representatives, the exercise of collective rights, remuneration, promotion or training. In addition, there are strong guarantees relating to the exercise of fundamental rights in the company, related to the right to privacy or data protection. Remote work requires control mechanisms that are essentially different from those used in face-to-face work, but in any case they must respect the right to privacy. It was also necessary to incorporate into the text the test of suitability, necessity and proportionality, as you know, required by the Constitutional Court itself, in order to consider that a particular control system, whether digital or not, is in conformity with the constitutional text. All this has been transferred to the royal decree-law in relation to work distance in a way consistent with Spanish legislation and jurisprudence, as well as with European Union legislation. In addition, the Royal Decree-Law provides for intense protection in the field of occupational risk prevention, adapted to the particularities of distance work, which requires special attention in the evaluation and preventive activity and its particularities, for example in the field of psychosocial risks. Therefore, the possibility of access to the place of provision of services for the purpose of carrying out the corresponding risk assessment, which will be conditional, as they know, in any case, on the express authorization of the worker. The scope of effectiveness has been given special attention in this rule, which has resulted in the corresponding amendments to the sanctioning regulations, the Law on Offences and Penalties in the Social Order, and in the procedural regulations themselves, the Law on the Regulation of the Social Jurisdiction. Specific infringements and sanctions have been established in this regard in cases where the obligation to formalize the distance work agreement is not adequately met. A specific, rapid and preferential judicial procedure has also been developed to ensure that complaints relating to the right of access, reversal and modification of distance work are resolved as quickly as possible. Another of the fundamental features that characterize the Royal Decree of Work at Distance is that it places in a central place the collective bargaining itself. Social dialogue is indeed the backbone of this royal decree-law, the content of which is the result of the agreement of the social partners, a negotiating dimension that reinforces the legitimacy of the rules and also ensures their effectiveness. This negotiated nature is therefore a fundamental element to be highlighted and especially valued. The strong and coordinated exit from the health and economic crisis caused by the pandemic must also underpin the foundations of the new stability challenges facing companies and workers in the immediate future. This dimension intertwined in collective bargaining is transferred to the whole articulated of the royal decree, with express calls to the collective agreement in such relevant aspects as the establishment of preferences or the very definition of distance work, which can be stipulated in collective agreement by means of percentages different from those fixed in the norm. In this way, the present standard of distance work incorporates negotiation into the normal and ordinary dynamics of distance work with a completely different perspective from that which it has governed in labour standards over the past few years. The rules on distance work regulated in this royal decree finally set out a series of transitional rules which set out a detailed framework of specific forecasts in view of the circumstances of the performance of the work. Therefore, different treatments are envisaged, depending on whether or not an agreement or prior agreement was in place according to which distance work was being carried out, and the situation of distance work resulting from the pandemic is expressly envisaged. In short, the Royal Decree-Law on Distance Work is a global, integral and cross-cutting rule that guarantees fundamental rights and transfers to the field of distance work the labour rights, both individual and collective, of face-to-face work. It is a detailed and comprehensive rule that provides legal certainty and establishes the appropriate mechanisms for its full effectiveness. [[The lady]] In addition to the rule governing distance work, there are more content in this royal decreeley. First, the Royal Decree-Law provides for the extension of the Me Care Plan, which will extend until 31 January 2021. The Plan Me Care, as you know, allows the adaptation of days and schedules with a flexibility hitherto unknown, facilitating reduction of days of even one hundred percent of them. Secondly, a number of necessary measures are set out in response to the circumstances in which the pandemic is evolving in relation to the health sector and also to the railway sector. Thirdly, in fiscal matters, this Royal Decree-Law regulates the specific tax regime applicable to the end of the UEFA 2020 Women's Champions League in Bilbao and San Sebastián. Fourthly, it establishes a series of amendments to the Royal Decree Law 20/2020, establishing minimum living income, aimed at speeding up the processing process with the aim of responding as soon as possible to the large number of applications that have arrived. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation is also empowered to determine how to certify identity for obtaining electronic certificates. The entry into force of certain administrative rules on electronic records and archives is also postponed by the Royal Decree-Law. The distribution of gambling skills between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Consumer Affairs is clarified and, finally, some clarifications are laid down regarding the implementation and management of the grants provided for in the Renovation Plan. As you know, it is imperative that reference be made to the concurrence both in the regulations on distance work and in the additional and final provisions of this article of the extraordinary and urgent need required by article 86 of our constitutional text for the approval by the Government of a royal decree law. Firstly, this regulation addresses the current situation of the health crisis and the need to provide certainty. From the beginning of the pandemic, remote work has been a tool that has served both to maintain business and work activity and to prevent contagion. It is a mode of organization that adapts to the current health situation and that must be properly regulated, taking into account the fulfilment of its purpose during the crisis, but also the evidence of its boom as a new work model. Secondly, from the perspective of business organisation, distance work is a formula that can enable a more rational and efficient organisation of working time. At a time when companies are facing processes of recovery, renewal or re-adaptation of great importance for the future, it is the responsibility of the public authorities to make available to them all the instruments that can help to consolidate business projects on a stable basis in a scenario in need of certainty such as the current one. Thirdly, the solution proposed by this royal decree is based on a shared diagnosis with the social partners, aimed at giving immediate satisfaction to the needs of businesses and women workers, which also the social dialogue has understood to be an impossible task. The text we propose to validate today is an opportunity for companies to have the necessary tools aimed at consolidating their projects and a decisive improvement also in the working and living conditions of citizens. That is what companies and workers have agreed with this Government at the social dialogue table and that is what is being discussed today in this royal decree-law, but, above all, what I ask you to validate today is the commitment of all public institutions, including the legislative branch, with companies and with workers at a time when they need the rules to offer solutions that are appropriate to reality. This reality certainly includes the most vulnerable, and this royal decree also expresses the firm will of this Government to bring about a new social right that was born as one of the most supportive measures in history for all people and families who are in need and who now more than ever need to be protected by public policies. I'm done. The pandemic has revealed to us the importance of remote work. The adoption of this rule opens the door to the labour legislation of the twenty-first century, a new time in our country's labour relations. We will do so, as always, with the commitment to decent, stable and quality employment that is present in all the measures we take and with the awareness that any new time in labor relations or in the modes of organization will necessarily come from the hand of rights and decent working conditions. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u67	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno spoke on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that I have a certain intellectual conflict when I have to talk about commendable work, such as this royal decree, but for other reasons I know that it will be inapplicable in large territories of Teruel, of the depopulated Aragon or of emptied Spain; it will be inapplicable because we still do not have enough coverage because they are still incommunicado territories. But in essence we support this real decree on the regulation of teleworking, since for us it is a very important step to regulate a mode of work that in Spain we understand must extend beyond the urban centres, beyond the large enterprises, and reach also small and medium localities, as already happens in the most digitized countries of Europe, by the way, countries with models of population density and population much more balanced than Spanish, such as Finland or the Netherlands. The implementation of telework is not only an essential social tool for dealing with the pandemic, but is also crucial for advancing the knowledge economy. This new frontier of economic evolution is based on two fundamental pillars: human capital and information and knowledge technologies. We are very concerned that as the economy progresses, that is, with the knowledge economy that is imposed in society, the importance of the digital divide will become much more important. A digital divide that has, as you well know, three dimensions: social, demographic and territorial. The social dimension by the economic level and by the training of those receiving it, the demographic by the age group to which it applies and the territorial by the scope which limits it, as broadband networks are not yet spread throughout the country. In other words, the three dimensions of the digital divide converge in a marked way in the emptied Spain: there is a lower level of income and training, there is a more ageing population and there are very important gaps in the broadband network. We must act accordingly already to reduce this gap, because if not the law will be a wet paper for at least a large part of the Spaniards. In order to offer new economic opportunities to rural Spain and small cities, we need broadband networks, intensive digital training programmes for the population. We need to convince ourselves that this is the time to evolve and get closer to the data of the pioneering countries in digitization, which are also teleworking, a modality that has been demonstrated in those countries that is productive and that, in addition, facilitates reconciliation within families and can provide opportunities for development in broad territorial areas. We have been saying many times that emptied Spain is also to a large extent disconnected Spain, and we must put an end to this disconnection; a disconnection caused by the lack of coverage and broadband, which, as I said, has to be resolved urgently. If large companies or the free market are not able to provide this broadband extension throughout the territory, the State, on its own initiative or through public undertakings, must act. We are faced with a case similar to when our entire territory was endowed with drinking water or electricity, since it is a universal good recognized as such by the United Nations and must be extended well with the Market Law, or with direct action by the State. Teleworking for us must be an opportunity for demographic rebalancing, for territorial cohesion and for reducing the problems of depopulation. We can't let an opportunity like this forget us again, we can't let this train pass. Because each year that passes without the total coverage of the territory will be many of the opportunities lost for personal decisions of residence or location, we demand that before or parallel to this law the total coverage of the digitization of the optical fiber in Spain is developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u69	Thank you very much. Next, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the same group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister of Labour and Social Economy. As I moved you before personally and after reading the IMF's bad wishes for the next two years, I want to wish you the greatest success in the face of the great labor challenges your ministry has ahead, which are in addition to those that you have had to assume in this legislature practically since the minute. Having said that, Mrs Pérez, on your team you have to refine more, because the establishment of this rule by the way envisaged for urgent matters has led to a very defective text in strict legal terms, which anticipates innumerable disputes in the courts of the social order, which is exactly the opposite of what a law should promote. In the cross-cutting that you alluded to, various issues are being dealt with, so that the Government steals from Congress the debate on certain matters, which is also an irregularity in constitutional illegality, since it is not possible to analyse these issues in its depth by undermining a discussion on a decree-law that is entitled to work at a distance, but which incorporates completely different topics on a cover, and that I have nothing against the fact that in Bilbao they can see the best European football. What we are concerned with, most importantly, refers to the voluntariness of distance work, but it does not clarify whether it can lead to a refusal by the employer in this regard. If teleworking is voluntary for the worker and his employer, as provided for in Article 5.1, and if there is no right to such an effect recognized in collective bargaining, nor what does it have to say that such voluntary competition will rarely be able to reach a successful conclusion, because a decision to that effect by the employer will prevent it. Unlike the rule regarding the worker's refusal to telework, there is no parallel forecast for the employer's case, which supports the thesis that it can only be teleworked if it is decided voluntarily by both parties. However, this extreme is not peaceful and it can be predicted that judges of the social order will have to deal with this extreme frequently. Another controversial issue is given by the economic endowment so that the employee can work at a distance. From the wording of articles 11 and 12, it appears that the employer should be responsible for the costs of computer equipment and its technical maintenance, as well as its consumables and other means for it to carry out the work from its home, which is not disposable and which reaches the electric consumption of access to the telephone network, heating, air conditioning or even rents or mortgage fees. Needless to say, it has to require the employer at this time to go through such costs, discourages recruitment, because it can become a benefit that goes far beyond work. Hourly flexibility is also provided for as a worker's right, with the employer's capacity similar to his refusal; which, in addition to being an unbalanced solution in terms of employment, may constitute a comparative aggravation for face-to-face workers, who will not enjoy such a possibility. Ladies and gentlemen, among other matters covered by the Decree-Law, particular reference should be made to the umpteenth extension of the entry into force of the 2015 eGovernment legislation. It is not reasonable to delay the month of April 2021, which should have been implemented five years ago. I conclude, Madam President, by pointing out that for basic reasons it is not possible to provide for the teleworking of public administration workers, as established by the Royal Decree-Law, and it is not possible, without having made available to its users, the 21st century e-government itself - as you pointed out -. That must be the priority objective of the Executive, the Government and, therefore, never produce legislation without the necessary quality, which is what, unfortunately, is happening again here. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u71	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Azpirua Arzallus
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u72	Thank you, President. A previous to the representative of Citizens who spoke earlier in the debate on the state of alarm and who said that Euskal Herria Bildu did not intervene today in this debate on the state of alarm in Madrid, because we are not interested in the issue at all. [[The lady]] Mr Bal is not here, but if he were, he would say that, if we did not intervene, it was out of respect to the people of Madrid, to the working-class neighbourhoods confined to which they not only trample their rights, but also have to endure using them from this rostrum. Having said that, I am going to the point that concerns us, which is the real decree of teleworking. I'm starting with the most obvious. Processing a teleworking law was, in fact, an urgency, a responsibility and an obligation, a reality that already existed, at still minority levels, but that has accelerated exponentially with the pandemic. Therefore, it is logical to regulate this phenomenon that will increasingly be present in our lives. It is an urgency to regulate it and we understand that this urgency has made this law, in our view, capable of presenting some loose fringes and some loopholes. There are many rules that we consider positive in this decree - in this one and in which it will be discussed later - and also its conception, and above all that already from the very beginning the conception is that of the establishment that telework has to be something voluntary and that it has a reversible character. Therefore, in its generality, we positively value this decree-law, because it contains necessary measures and conceptions, but I will stop a little in what we have missed, for example, the fact that this law is not effective from now on, because the forced telework by the eruption of the COVID-19 is already installed in the lives of many people. We would also have liked it if collective bargaining were not relegated to issues that affect the way in which it is teleworking. In this sense, the law leaves unresolved issues such as who pays for the costs of telework activity, i.e. who pays for light, who pays for computer equipment and all the elements necessary to telework. This should be regulated in this law because, I am going to give you a single data referring to teleworking in the Spanish State in these months, 70% of people with salaries above EUR 4000 have been able to develop the telematics modality during the pandemic and only 13% of people with mileurist salaries have had this option. That is why it is also important that the costs of teleworking are borne by companies, and it would have been really good if this had already been stipulated. Of these indefinitions this royal decree suffers, indefinitions that have risks, as it has everything that is not regulated and that opens doors to the widening of the gender gap, that of inequality or that of exploitation even. There are many issues that remain in the air by assuming that the situation is the same for all, and it is not, not all collectives have the same access and the same possibilities, not all houses are prepared for remote work, and the digital divide is actually a socio-economic gap because it is the lower socio-economic classes that do not have the same access to the tools. There is another central aspect, among the issues that are not clear in the decree, which refers to conciliation. You, Minister, have spoken about the subject and have been clearer than this decree. In the same way that it happened with the closure of schools, when the weight of care fell more on women - this has happened, it has been so - we believe that we need to fine-tune more so that women do not become entangled again between conciliation and work. In this eternal and continuous confinement in the home between work and care, telework can become an insurmountable trap for women. In this regard, there is a clarification point that provides recent data on the scientific activity of men and women during the pandemic: men have produced and sent to specialized journals far more scientific articles than women. This can be extrapolated to any field of work. This lack of reconciliation resulting from teleworking can have these consequences, and future consequences for the professional and personal development of women. Telework, if no measures are taken with regard to conciliation, can reposition us under a new glass roof. These were the issues I wanted to comment on and, finally, one more that perhaps comes out a bit from this decree, goes beyond it, but I think it is important to point it out. As in times of great changes, opportunities should be taken advantage of, it would not be wrong to look a little further and focus the future on something that is already being set up in other European countries as a good option. I am talking about going the way from teleworking to the concept of flexible work. A step forward to rethink the future and propose a change to a flexible conception of work, allowing a real balance between professional and personal life and which could materialise in the weekly day of thirty-five hours in five days or thirty-two hours in a four-day working week, as proposed by the Prime Minister of New Zealand. This, moreover, has a twofold positive side, as it would reactivate the country's internal tourism and boost the economy. I want to say with this that the possibilities for everything that needs to be done are more open now than ever. A final fact or comment on social dialogue, Minister, of course that social dialogue is positive and necessary, but I think we should not forget that if social dialogue becomes a right to veto progress in rights it is not so positive. We will support the two decrees with our vote because it is urgent and necessary to regulate telework, despite these loopholes that I have commented on. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u73	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u74	Well, I don't know if you're almost ready, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. This royal decree-law, presented to us today by the Government or approved by the Government and already incorporated into the law, incorporates into positive law what is nothing more than the elaboration of the principles of the European Framework Agreement on Telework signed on 16 July 2002, which was subsequently updated in 2009. To this end, it is necessary to develop article 13 of the Workers'Statute, which deals precisely with remote work, and incorporates in this mode of provision the regulation of the basic aspects of teleworking as a reality in full swing and development, based on the exclusive or predominant use of computer, telematic and telecommunications means and systems. It is also understood by such telework that the regular mode is provided for at least 30 % of the day during a reference period of three months or the equivalent percentage according to the duration of the employment contract, and also limits its application with respect to those concluded with minors and contracts in training and apprenticeship practices. It is based on the elaboration of certain principles which are then laid down in the positive law which refer to equal treatment and opportunities and non-discrimination, to the voluntarity and reversibility - fundamental, we understand - to the obligation of the written form, to the right to vocational training and promotion, to the provision and maintenance of means and equipment, to the payment and compensation of expenses - to which I shall refer - which will be determined by agreement; the right to flexible hours and registration; the right to the prevention and evaluation of occupational risks; the right to privacy and data protection; the right to digital disconnection as a fundamental substantive element, in addition to other rights, and the right to the exercise of collective rights. As I said, they are rights and obligations already recognized in labour law itself, and it makes an explicit reference to the Data Protection Act with regard to the right to digital disconnection; that is a substantive element that we believe is properly developed. As a technical criticism, we see that this text is drafted in place of article 13 even though it could have been drafted in amendment of article 13, that is, that the Workers' Statute itself could have served as a support for the elaboration of this element of positive law, without prejudice to the fact that it maintains as it is in the field not of collective bargaining, but of the social agreement, it seems that it saves this technical inconvenience of the regulatory aspect precisely by the legitimation that it is granted not only by the formal elements, but also by the substantive elements to which it refers, and gives it an indisputable solidity. However, and also as a critic, we can say that the use of the mechanism of the royal decree-law, precisely when it is based on the social agreement, reveals a certain contradiction, of which we simply want to warn, but without putting any emphasis on it. Having said that, the existence of a material sphere sufficient for teleworking has been maintained as a whole; we also believe that there are essentially two elements: the right to disconnection, which underpins legitimation, and then also the reference to collective bargaining, so that those regulatory aspects that the text itself is going to leave open can be realized, and in that sense we believe that the reference to collective bargaining on which we are not going to make any kind of question is a positive element. In this sense, therefore, we have a positive assessment of the actual decreeley and we will not focus on more precise elements regarding its content, since the minister has been prolific, as always, in its development and we simply announce that we are going to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u75	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u76	Thank you, President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to address the spokesman for Bildu, but since he is not here, I would like to address the gentlemen of Bildu who are in this House: Leave your cynicism aside, leave your cynicism aside. If you want to show respect for the Madriders, ask forgiveness for the thirty-nine car bombs and ask forgiveness for the 121 people killed by ETA in the capital of Spain. You are disrespectful, do not speak of respect in this House. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, how sad and how sad that we had to suffer this global pandemic so that we could realize the great shortcomings and needs of our economy and of our labour market, structural deficiencies that the economic and social crisis that plagues us has exposed because, as in the fable The Emperor's new suit, it turns out that the king was naked, while everyone was looking elsewhere. We are debating today, seven months after the pandemic broke out, a text much needed to save lives and to save jobs; almost eight months later, it is not too late if bliss is good. This royal decree, ladies and gentlemen, is another step towards the modernization of our economy because it is inconceivable in a society in which you can fill the refrigerator by buying over the Internet or you can study remotely or even present taxes with a digital signature, which you have to be face-to-face, sitting in your workplace, in your company or in your office, performing tasks that could easily be done from anywhere other than the workplace. Surely, Minister, you will remember that in January, when she appeared in the Commission, which had just opened the legislature, this Member asked you about teleworking. Then we did not wear masks and we did not have to keep the distance of security, but it was already a clamor in today's society that we needed to move forward and compare ourselves to other European economies in this respect. In Citizens we have been demanding for years the need to regulate this new form of work because, as you have very well explained before, teleworking improves the productivity of Spanish companies, facilitates the reconciliation of family and work life, it is a weapon against depopulation, it also contributes to taking care of the environment and, lastly, I would like to add to this list of positive points, which you have also mentioned, something that Citizens defend in Europe, defends here at national level and is defended in each of the autonomous communities - I also told Minister Write last week - and it is that teleworking can be a lever of momentum to relaunch the external image of Spain as a preferred destination for teleworkers all over the world. Who comes here to summer in Spain with the quality of life we have, why won't you decide to move your residence here to telework? As I said at the outset, the pandemic has shown that teleworking is not very deep in our country. Small data: In 2019 only 4.3% of Spanish workers were working remotely, working remotely; far from the EU average, which was almost 10% and even further away from almost 18% and 17% of what they telework in the Netherlands and France. But then came the pandemic and we found a legal loophole that we had to cover and, as in many other things, the citizens have given us an example of turning the extraordinary into something usual, passing the telework from being a witness in Spain to having a rate of 35% of the telework. We welcome, as it cannot be otherwise, Minister, the text they bring here today for validation and we also welcome that it has been negotiated and agreed with the social partners because, in my party, in my parliamentary group, in Citizens, another path is inconceivable. Norms of this kind must always be endorsed by the social partners, employers and trade unions. And I always say, because any initiative to pass or repeal labour laws must carry this seal of guarantee for it to succeed. As for the content of the royal decree regulating exclusively distance work provided on a regular basis, it incorporates some new developments, such as the voluntariness of doing this work at a distance. It also recognizes that it can be reversed if the work is initially performed in the face-to-face mode. Of course, it guarantees, as it could not otherwise be, the equality of workers, both those who serve at a distance and those who are present, on equal terms of pay, training, promotion and the exercise of collective rights. It also highlights, and is important, the realization of a right of digital disconnection, and this special mention of the balanced sharing of the costs associated with this mode of work. Minister, we are very pleased, and I am pleased personally, that this final text has corrected the excesses contained in the initial versions and provides sufficient flexibility, through collective bargaining, to adapt to the particular circumstances of workers and businesses in each activity and sector. These are some of the points that we share and value positively, so we will vote in favour of their validation, but we already know each other and know that in Citizens we are very demanding: we believe that certain aspects of this law, of this royal decree must be improved, so we will ask that this initiative be conducted as a bill, so that all groups can contribute and participate in a debate that is necessary. This is the way, minister, this is the way, ladies and gentlemen, to respond to the problems of the Spaniards, because that is what they pay us for. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u77	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, we agree on the need to regulate telework; it is evidence that was absolutely necessary in this context, but at the same time we understand that the provisions of the Royal Decree do not adequately resolve certain issues in a situation that is indeed complex, some even directly affect the exercise of rights, such as the right to equality, the right to non-discrimination on the basis of gender, the right to digital disconnection or the right to freedom of association. We understand that it leaves a wide margin of fraud when it is defined as distance work that is carried out on a regular basis and that it occupies at least 30% of the working day for three months, leaving out contracts of practice, training or those of minors. By setting the 30% limit, we believe that many companies benefit from hybrid systems of face-to-face and remote work, without the need to comply with the protection measures provided for by the law, such as digital disconnection, data protection, occupational risk prevention, etc. It also leaves the door open so that the norm can be defrauded, by turning to the figure of the false self-governing. We agree that the agreement to carry out telework must be voluntary, but the need to encourage, in the event of a request by the worker, conciliation and to regulate measures to prevent bullying and dismissals as a result of the worker's refusal to carry out telework should be regulated, by the way, dismissals which they consider to be inappropriate and not null and void. Indeed, the agreement must be reversible, but they leave the regulation of how the return of the worker to collective bargaining takes place, so that as long as it does not adapt there will be a certain legal vacuum. We are concerned - I am finalizing - about the reference to the form of control of telework that can invade areas of personal and family privacy. We are also concerned about the guarantees of labour and trade union rights, as I said. While the same rights as face-to-face workers are recognized, the way in which these rights will become effective remains unknown, as the Government has considered it necessary to address the specific difficulties in controlling legality and trade union action, which involves the work organisation distributed at home level. As I said, there are many aspects that we believe are not properly resolved, so we are going to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u79	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u80	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on October 15, 80 years ago, President Companies, unjustly, indignantly and shamefully, was shot in accordance with a ruling annulled by the Parliament of Catalonia, but not yet by this Parliament. From here, from this rostrum, my memory and my appreciation to President Companies. [[Applauds]] Having said that, Minister, I know you will not be used to it, but from an opposition group we want to congratulate you - and I know it is not a time for congratulations - because whenever there is an agreement within the framework of the social dialogue, I think we should all congratulate the Government which has been encouraging it, and hence our congratulations not exempt from some comments and nuances. Social dialogue is basic, but parliamentary groups too have to make our contributions. Therefore, on this royal decree-law which is in fact a royal decree-law which the Government - you yourself have stated in the Commission - intended to introduce as a draft law and which could be discussed as such, we will request that it be discussed as a draft law, among other things because it introduces up to twenty-five additional transitional and final provisions which I will then comment on. As for the content of the actual decree, in the essentially part of teleworking, we agree on the principles that underpin it: the voluntariness of the parties and the agreement and non-discrimination between the workers who can and cannot be received. Having said that, we understand that there are improvements to be made. We would have liked to have been able to link this reform - important reform - with another reform that we have pending, that is the hourly reform - that in Catalonia knows that we are working on it - and that we understood that it could be an opportunity. Anyway, it's a great opportunity. There is a lot of ground to go through; in the most depopulated areas, as has been said, as the digital divide and the fiber optics end up reaching everyone will be easier. In Catalonia we are also working, and today almost all the capitals of the region already have this fiber optic. Having said that, I would like to make a few comments on the additional, final and transitional provisions, some of which had been incorporated into Royal Decree-Law 27, which was not validated by this House. And I already know that it is not your competence, but remind the Minister of Finance that some aspects of the Royal Decree-Law 27/2020 have been left that are pending and that it is necessary to resolve, and the Minister - who also accompanies us here - of Territorial Policy will know it perfectly. The public transport fund is pending, as well as the updating of the participation in deliveries on account of the participation of State taxes, and the fund of the 5 billion that is going to be distributed in some way is also pending, Minister. In any case, remember today to see if before the end of the year, because the mayors need it, it can be solved. With regard to all the additional provisions, I would like to make two comments; I could do much more, but I do not have time. The seventh additional provision, that of zero VAT in the health field, extends it until 31 October. Minister, on October 31 you are here, you will have to make a further extension, and I asked the Minister of Finance, I asked the Minister of Economy; I did not succeed. See if you, who understand that you are more sensitive to everything that involves the circular economy, can help me. The provision of certain goods for hospitals and other health institutions is zero-rate thanks to this rule. Look, if a surgical gown is bought and is disposable tax at 0%; instead, if it is reusable, as it is a service delivery, it continues to tax at 21%, so this issue must be resolved, and I am finishing, Madam President. The final disposition tenth finally - it is final, but it is finally - solves, even if it is partially, the problem of the situations of those workers who cannot leave their municipality or cannot enter their work municipality because they are confined. This, which is a demand of our group since - I don't know if you remember - the month of March, because it affected the workers of the Conca d'Odena, is not resolved until today, six months later. Of this, with regard to diligence, we will have the opportunity to speak in the next decrees. Anyway, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u81	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u82	Good afternoon. I would like to make a preliminary reflection in response to two reflections of the Citizen Group, which has a sort of fixation. We have not intervened on the subject of the Madrid Community out of respect for the Madrid Assembly, something which you do not have for the other parliaments - we have great respect - but for your people now we are going to intervene by defining the rights of all working classes of any people of the State, speak the language they speak. This was answered to Mr Bal, who is not - imagine what matters to him about the job - and to the Labour spokesman, who is not even when he listens to others. And in case it were little, also said Mr. Bal: Please approve the budgets, for God's sake!, not with them but with us. No, it's not gonna be for God's sake. The Socialist Party and the United Nations Party We can either choose a left-wing party or a right-wing party or an extreme right-wing party. And the last answer to your speeches is that we do not represent the people of Madrid because we do not run for election, fortunately for you, because we only present ourselves in Catalonia have thirteen deputies and you throughout Spain have ten. So please don't let us take any more votes from you. [[Applauds]] Having said that, and before talking about telework - congratulations to the minister for having drawn this law -, my first words from this intervention, speak the language they speak, be it from the people they are - I remind Citizens to see if they understand it at once - I would like to dedicate them to the hundreds of thousands of people for whom telework has never been a choice because they can't choose, or they can't work with a computer, or they can't even work, so I also want to leave this memory to them. I want to remind those hundreds of thousands of workers who have been essential during the pandemic, and continue to be essential, showing those who never wanted to see - I mean again on the right - that important and essential jobs are not always the best paid. That's why I don't want to forget them on this subject. That is why these first words are a tribute to those who need, like everyone else, to preserve themselves from the virus, because of the importance of their work they cannot telework. I am referring to the workers of the home care services - wherever they are, lords of Citizens, wherever they are -, the workers, the pallets, waiters, cashiers, actors, locksmiths, street vendors, doctors, nurses, factory workers. I want to address all of them, all of those who are likely to feel ignored during the teleworking debates. They're not ignored. We always have them present and we do not forget them; on the contrary, we will defend their interests as a fraternal, internationalist and class party that we are. Having said that, no one denies the importance of teleworking and we therefore thank this law. There was an urgent need to do so. Long-distance work in general is a way of providing services that, due to technological advances, has been slowly opening the way for years. However, I do not discover anything new if I say that after the arrival of COVID this has accentuated. Ladies and gentlemen, it is fair to say that, in view of the major changes in the forms of work of hundreds of thousands of people over the past few months, remote work must be legislated. We want to be honest and recognize that the text proposed by the Government is moving in the right direction, minister - congratulations - and that is why we will vote in favour of the validation of the royal decree-law. We appreciate the attempt to provide sufficient regulation to respond to the diverse needs of these new forms of self-employment and to the advantages they entail within a framework of adequate and well-regulated rights. We like to see the voluntary and irreversible nature and also to see the principle of equal treatment in conditions between professionals who are teleworking and those who are not. We also like that it has included compensation for expenses, promotion and vocational training, the exercise of collective rights, maximum working time, minimum rest time, equal opportunities in the territory, flexible distribution of working time, as well as preventive aspects, mainly related to physical and mental fatigue and the use of displays of data or risks of isolation. You guys touch them, so congratulations on that, too. We also like to seek to guarantee new digital rights related to the use of devices in the workplace, such as, among others, the right to privacy and the use of digital devices in the workplace or the right to digital disconnection, but it is not wrong because there is also once again a part of the way that can be improved. It is very good that consensus is reached with the employer and with the big unions. It is very important, but also it is to have more fluid precedents, which are, but a little more fluid in presenting the real decrees-laws, because we can also contribute something more if we dedicate more time to this topic. Secondly, when we sit down and establish the first specific legislation, we miss something that we hope to improve in the bill on which we will enter into dialogue with the other political forces. We miss in its text a concrete statement: what consequences will there be for companies that violate digital disconnection rights, for example, or a written requirement of the methods of registration that the worker will use at a distance, among many other things. For example, that the Royal Decree-Law could actually apply to all workers who provide distance services and not only those who do more than 30% of the day within three months. It makes no sense for a worker teleworking a full day each week to be unable to benefit from the measures provided for in this rule. We are sure that this can be corrected in its handling as a bill. For this reason, we will vote yes to its processing as a bill and to validation. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u83	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, as they normalized the law of the jungle, as they devalued the wages of millions of people and facilitated the dismissal of working people, all this was trying to convince us that it was modern, that the 21st century consisted of diluting rights on account of applications, having the Internet on the mobile and algorithms - in quotes - supposedly neutral. Fortunately, people are not fools and many voices from different areas have denounced and continue to denounce today that covering up a working relationship as if it were self-employment, that they do not have a fixed wage or security measures or the possibility of union and that extending working hours to 24 hours a day by using this technology has absolutely nothing modern. Nor does it have anything new; moreover, it is pure and hard exploitation of all life that looks much more like the 19th century than the 21st century. Fortunately too, and - I repeat? As people are not fools, he voted massively in the ballot box so that we could have a progressive coalition government that would help to win new rights and this royal decreeley is an example of that. In the middle of 2020, with more and more widespread and standardised distance work, it was a barbarity that we did not have decent regulation in this regard. Adapting the law to the new labour realities, in addition to agreeing it with an important part of the union representation and with the employer, it is indeed modernizing. That is, at last, to involve ourselves fully in the twenty-first century as far as labour matters are concerned. And what is this new regulation? From now on, working people will be able to voluntarily agree with the business side on the provision of distance work, either at home or in any other place that meets the conditions for it. That agreement shall be recorded in writing, taking into account the following points. Persons working at a distance shall be entitled to the payment and compensation of expenses and shall also be entitled to the provision and maintenance of means, equipment and tools. It's crazy to think it's right that a person who goes to work remotely has to pay for the sewing machine or the computer. This is barbarity and with this law this will be healed. They will have the right to a flexible schedule and to the registration of the day and also - this is very important - the right to digital disconnection. We're done getting e-mails or wasaps at 10:00 p.m. If they pay us four hours we work four hours, if they pay us eight hours we work eight hours, but not twenty-four hours a day. They shall also have the right to training, professional promotion and the prevention of occupational risks. Working remotely can't mean playing physics, it can't mean you can't develop your career or you can't have more responsibility in the company. They will also, of course, be entitled to collective representation. Working remotely can't mean you're out of union representation. That would be a flagrant breach of the Constitution, which was the case in many cases. And, of course - and not least of all - they will have the right to stability in the workplace. In no case, I repeat, in no case, the refusal to work remotely will justify the termination of the employment relationship. This is important to reschedule. There are voices criticizing this new law saying that it does not effectively shield the law and that voluntariness implies being at the mercy of the employer on duty. True, the correlations of forces exist and we know them well at work. Criticism is real and we even share it, but I think there's a part that wrongly focuses it; even comfortable, I would say. Unfortunately, this is a coalition government, it is not the Virgin of Lourdes, it is not the Virgin of Candelaria, it is the Virgin of Pino and none of the other virgins who have inspired labor legislation in this country, and it is not dedicated to performing miracles; it is dedicated to doing things that benefit the working people much more: laws. Now, we have said a thousand times and I will not tire of repeating that the only way to truly guarantee rights is to organize and fight. Voting every four years is important, no one doubts it, but it is not enough, much less. Without organized people who invest their time, their energies and who often put their jobs at risk for planting face, the rights would remain in wet paper. That is why I say that criticism is comfortable, because, well, not everything can be done with the BOE, many of these things will have to fight in the jobs, one will have to organize and will have to unionize. Without working, organized and courageous people, it would have been impossible for the Supreme Court's historical ruling to recognize that people working for Glovo do it on their own, that there is a working relationship like a cathedral and that they are, therefore, self-sufficient fakes. It would also have been impossible to hear the news we have heard this week, the conviction via Labour Inspection to the US multinational Amazon, which forces him to discharge nothing more and nothing less than 3,000 workers he maintained as false self-employed. [[Applauds]] We will continue to legislate so that it is easier to win rights, that is our mission in the institutions, there is no doubt, but we will never forget and we want people never to forget that what is needed is to organize and fight for what is put into the BOE to become reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u85	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mrs Borrás has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u86	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. At this very moment there are millions of Spaniards in their homes and not precisely because they are teleworking, but because the inaction of this government has condemned them to an ERTE which, by the way, many of them do not even charge or, in the worst case scenario, have been engaged in the closure of their businesses. In the midst of this hurricane of mass destruction of businesses and jobs, telework has been the lifesaver of our economy. Strengthening the use of distance work in an orderly, flexible and legally secure way is important for Spain, especially at the moment. However, this royal decree has been more concerned to limit and hold hands with entrepreneurs than to really push away work as an opportunity for our companies and for workers from all over the world. You have spoken of solutions that contemplate the reality of this country, and that is what I would have liked you to have included in this royal decree, the business reality of our country. Because the reality of Spain is that almost all companies, almost 95% of the business fabric, are built by small and medium-sized enterprises, by SMEs with less than ten employees, and, on the basis of this reality, it would be useful to analyse each point of this royal decree and really understand how these measures will affect small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. Let us illustrate this reality with a simple example. Let us say that a Spanish entrepreneur from a common SME has suffered a major deterioration, if not the complete detention of his circulating asset, due to the pandemic and has seen in the telework an opportunity to digitize his business, to continue his activity with less fixed associated costs and to avoid dismissals caused by the limitations imposed by this government. This entrepreneur appreciates the option of distance work because he sees it as an opportunity to enable his business and not destroy employment. Well, do we manage with this royal decree to offer the businessman certainty as to what telework is going to cost him? No, ladies and gentlemen, we did not, because this royal decree says that the employer must cover the costs of distance work, but it does not even specify what specific costs the small and medium-sized businessman must pay, which, as you will understand, creates enormous uncertainty when planning his costs. Can we by this royal decree offer the worker certainty about the tax burden attached to telework? We do not, ladies and gentlemen, either, because this royal decree does not offer certainty about the increase in the IRPF that workers will have to pay as a concept of remuneration in species that, as you know, is subject to the arbitrariness of the criterion of Finance. It would have been desirable, Madam Minister, for you to set these items as remuneration-free tax and contribution-free, but you have not done so either. Can we ensure with this royal decree that the entrepreneur can freely manage his resources and assets freely, so that he can make the best decisions for the maintenance of his activity and employment? No, we do not, either, because this royal decree, in its article 5.1, eliminates the employer's ability to manage its factors of production, so that it cannot even implement telework through article 41 of the Workers' Statute, which, as you know, minister, covers all kinds of changes in working conditions when there are proven economic, technical, organisational or production reasons. However, the employer cannot apply it for distance work, i.e. that this royal decree further compromises the viability of a company that requires changing working conditions to, for example, maintain the level of employment or avoid bankruptcy. Can we implement, as has been the case so far, the implementing priority of the company agreement with this royal decree? No, ladies and gentlemen, of course not. We fail to do so because this royal decree eliminates that implementing priority in favour of the social partners. Can we at least obtain this royal decree to certify that teleworking will not entail greater risks for the employer? Actually, no. We do not succeed because this royal decree not only does not detail how companies should proceed to ensure workers' job security, which they are required to do, but also the justified or non-reversibility of distance work, which means that once again the employer runs the risk of not being able to manage his production factors as he sees fit. In other words, the company plans its costs on the basis of a decision made in mutual agreement with the worker, so that the worker can then reverse his agreement whenever he wishes, even without any justification. All these gaps or inconcretions cannot be justified by the urgency of adopting this royal decree, ladies and gentlemen, because to include ideological and sectarian pills such as gender warfare they have had time. And I wonder, are you aware of the reality of our business fabric? Have you ever undertaken in your life, gentlemen of the government? Do you know how a company is run? Are you aware of how this regulation affects businesses and that if we do not stop putting obstacles and bureaucratic burdens on entrepreneurs, the only factory that will remain in this country is the factory of misery that you represent? [[Applauds]] We could continue this way on many other opportunities lost in this royal decree, such as that on rural repopulation, which have not even been bothered to mention, but do not worry because on this and other issues we will be dealing with in our parliamentary group to present them as amendments for their processing during the debate as a bill because we, unlike you, are aware of what entrepreneurs need and of course are not rigidities or impediments to further developing their activity, but freedom and flexibility to grow, generate employment and move forward. So, again, we miss the train of opportunity to help our SMEs become more efficient and profitable companies, so that they can grow and generate jobs by matching their production factors as they best consider due to the returns of their business. So much expectation with this norm to stay in a sad concept: loss of opportunity. But, well, we know, gentlemen of the government that you never miss a good opportunity to destroy jobs. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u87	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Movellán Lombilla has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u88	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, being in this rostrum, being a member of the Congress of Deputies is a great honor, but it is also a task, because everything we say from this rostrum is recorded forever in the Journal of Sessions and in the official bulletin, and it is that part of history which, however hard it may be for some of you, will never be able to change. And you won't believe it, minister, but before the coronavirus existed, the Spaniards were already teleworking. In 2012 work reduced CO2 emissions by two thousand tons per day. It is true that they were other times: activist Greta was then 9 years old; her leader, Pablo Iglesias, lived in Vallecas, and today the president of the government, Pedro Sánchez was still handling the YouTube channel watching Kennedy's videos. In the meantime, the People's Party was already working to open the way for us to get this regulation that we are debating today, the same way, Minister - what a task - that came to us too, the figure of the ERTE, that so many millions of jobs have saved, that you owe so much and that you hardly recognize, the way in which the general budgets of Christopher Montoro arrived, that I do not see you able to leave behind. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, do you know what that path is? It is the way of solutions to real problems, it is the way of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] You see that I am speaking slowly and slowly, and I am doing so because lately, every time any speaker from the People's Party takes the floor to talk about the disastrous management of his Government, they accuse us of churning. And you have to tell them that no one is crumpled in the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. So that you believe us, if you want, next time we bring here Mari Cruz Soriano and that we play the piano that famous song of The Maya Bee so that you recreate that multicolored country that you so much like - only you - see. And we haven't even been able to read it to you this week in the media saying that in recent years we have been through more than fifty labor reforms that have always been in the same direction: temporality and precariousness. And don't sneer at us, Minister, because these are things that you will surely have to say now and so do merits to succeed Mr. Churches, so if you get things wrong with justice and the general secretariat of your party is vacant. Moreover, it does not wink at us because it is not true, because the truth is in the Official State Gazette, which contains the amendment to article 13 of the Workers' Statute in 2012. The People's Party has already legislated to ensure the same rights, the same guarantees both for those who worked remotely and for those who did so from the workplace. But when this is signed by the People's Party, it sounds to you like a capitalist contubernium in favor of temporality and precariousness; when it is signed by your government, it turns out that it is a way to build that multicolored country you are talking about, that country you must want to raise up on the basis of facing both the Spaniards, as we have seen this morning, who are already facing autonomous communities to see who has more and less COVID infection. That's crispar, Minister, that's crispar for an entire country. That my party believes firmly in teleworking is not something that I have to demonstrate here today - for something we were the first to regulate it - and, therefore, we believe that its regulation should be treated today as a bill. What we do not believe is in you, in the background or in the form of the regulation that you propose today at the stroke of royal decree-law. You are so attached to this legislative formula that you already regulate in this decree the tax regime that will apply at the end of this year's UEFA Women's Champions League. They also use it to re-amend the procedures for the recognition of minimum living income, its big star measure, which has already been born star, because of the 5 million Spaniards to whom it was addressed, in the end only 91 000 applications have been approved and 50% of the beneficiaries already know that they will not be able to collect it this year. And the discount time they use to extend the Mecuida Plan, which expired on the same day that you passed the Royal Decree-Law, but they do so again by leaving in the gutter more than 3 million self-employed, who are not going to be able to benefit from this plan, like the rest of the salaried workers, and are not going to be able to benefit when they need to make their working hours more flexible for the care of their children or dependents. So I'm telling you to be careful about running, be careful about skipping the procedures, because you're hurting the Spaniards and you're also hurting the institutions. Even the Economic and Social Council itself has complained to you because you have had your opinion on a preliminary draft draft of the distance work which has been modified on two occasions. Do not also harm the form of employment relationship - those who have preceded me in the use of the word have said - which has been very useful, has saved many jobs and a lot of activity during the pandemic, as is the regulation that already existed from telework. Do not impose on 99% of our productive fabric, which is composed of autonomous and small and medium-sized enterprises, high costs and complex requirements that do not take into account their reality. They do not disagree with poor regulation of distance work or will encourage the relocation of jobs outside Spain. And they do not agree with adopting a text like that which brings, ambiguous, confusing, which adds excessive administrative weight and costs to businesses and employers. Don't let go of the opportunity to give Spain the flexible and modern regulations it needs. And do not bet, Minister, as your party does, on a regulation that runs counter to European standards and also against clockwise needles. I'm done, Madam President. Incompetence, negligence and sectarianism in its policies are turning the action of this Government into a boomeran that when it is launched is full of propaganda and political marketing, but when it comes back to us shows the true effects of the management of its Government, it brings us back to that sad reality. Do you remember, Minister, that grandiose announcement you made for the month of March? In Spain from now on it is forbidden to fire. Less bad that it was banned, because we already have 700,000 more unemployed in the past year. [[Applauds]] And what about the leitmotiv of your government, that no one is left behind? I ask you, Minister, where are the more than 3,800,000 unemployed we have today? Where are the 700,000 workers who remain at ERTE and do not know if they will ever be able to join their jobs? Have not the more than 370 000 self-employed people left behind who continue with the blind closed, 1 600 000 workers who have seen their turnover lost by more than 60%? Madam Minister, the only thing that can save the future of work and telework in our country is for you to lose yours, because if you continue for just one more minute at the head of the government you will see neither companies nor jobs from where to telework. Thank you very much. [[Applauds-.A lady MP: All right, good!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u89	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mrs Narváez Bandera has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u90	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The pandemic has brought us many changes in our daily lives: changes in the education of our children, changes in the perception of our priorities, changes in our work model and in the new way of developing work. We have seen how governments, in order to protect people's lives and health, were forced to stop economic activity, and this, of course, has had a particularly serious impact on employment. Our Government, unlike in other crises, has prioritized the protection of individuals and workers, and it has been protected by putting in place all the mechanisms within its reach: ERTE, which has avoided the destruction of thousands of jobs; unprecedented aid to the self-employed; the implementation of the minimum living income to protect the most vulnerable; and the Royal Decree-Law expedites the procedures for the recognition of this non-contributory benefit, as well as the retroactive nature of the applications; the extension of the MeCaida Plan, and, as something new also, the regulation of the provision of the employment relationship at a distance, that is, outside the establishments and the usual centres of the enterprise, using new technologies. Coronavirus containment has meant for many workers the first teleworking experience in Spain and has spread to 30%, being its use before the residual pandemic and lacking specific regulation. These workers must be thanked for having put their personal means in place so that the companies would not stop. It is to be thanked - and this is not to the gentlemen of VOX - that it was those workers who initially put all the means at their disposal to keep working. That is why this Government is taking the necessary measures to regulate teleworking, a regulation that is the result of social dialogue and from the framework of labour relations already initiated in the European Union. This is a necessary and basic rule insofar as it envisages the essential elements to ensure equality in the provision of work within and outside the workplace, leaving to collective bargaining its role of balancing the employment relationship. Honourable Members of the PP, Article 13 had become obsolete. New technologies allow for a new organization of work. This rule has taken the measures that have been pursued, on the one hand, to care for workers and, on the other, to facilitate the continuity of business activity or their immediate reactivation after the state of alarm. To this end, article 5 of Royal Decree-Law 5/2020, which established the preferential nature of distance work, has already been adopted and has been shown to be a good tool to contain mobility, restrict contacts and combat the pandemic and also to increase efficiency in our work. We need to be aware that telework has come to stay and can have a positive impact on the economy: it facilitates accessibility to work, allows time flexibility, allows the reconciliation of family and work life, helps the motivation of workers and increases productivity, reduces labour costs, avoids displacements and - I would like to highlight it among other things - means that it can be considered one of the main drivers of economic development in rural areas. I hope and hope that teleworking will be that opportunity that we expect in small peoples for our economic development and thus for the people to settle in the territory. To that end, Minister, we must ensure a good digital connection. It is fundamental; if not, there will continue to be inequality, and I firmly believe in this Government's commitment not to leave anyone behind, and the men and women we live in the people neither. In particular, today we cannot leave rural women behind. Today, International Rural Women's Day, we must continue to develop policies of equality in the rural world, policies that in some communities, such as Andalusia, are suffering a serious and important cut, which we cannot consent to. [[applause]] This royal decree-law is the result of social dialogue and places us within the European framework of distance work, as we have said. It was a necessary and profound challenge, which takes place in three respects: firstly, these workers will benefit from the same rights as those recognized in the legislation and collective agreements as those working on the premises of companies, and that is why there are basic aspects, such as the provision of means, equipment, tools and consumables, the payment and compensation of expenses, the right to training and professional promotion, the right to the prevention of occupational risks, privacy and data protection; secondly, - as has already been said - the voluntary and reversible nature of the worker and of the employer is recognized, and it must be reflected in a written agreement - Mr de VOX, agreements are not impossible, an agreement can be reached - and, thirdly, this form of work must be provided with greater protection, ensuring flexibility in its use. These new forms of employment also present new challenges and require the development of a labour regulatory framework, always in consultation with the social partners - as has already been said here - which combines the recognition of the new rights with legal certainty in the provision of the employment relationship for both workers and employers. Among the challenges of this normative development we must take into account the guarantee of preserving occupational health as a basic right of the worker, guaranteeing the right to disconnection - this is fundamental - and the gender impact, an issue that must be addressed in order to prevent this form of employment provision from becoming something common to women, who are the most demanding workers in companies. Although, as we have said, telework facilitates reconciliation, it risks women being the most supportive, which in many cases would entail taking on more family responsibilities, thus perpetuating the traditional gender role. We have seen and suffered during the confinement, ladies and gentlemen. When schools were closed, telework penalized women twice, because we are still the ones who take care of the home. That is why it is so necessary to move forward and regulate it, and, if it is the result of consensus, better. We would like to thank the Ministry and the Minister for their ability to reach agreements with trade unions and employers. And they could already learn some political parties, instead of being in perpetual confrontation. Ladies and gentlemen, let us build the future with the help of technology, but in conditions of justice, defending decent and quality employment, defending the rights of workers, as the Socialist Party has always done for one hundred and forty-one years, and creating new rights for the future. The meaning of our vote will be in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u91	Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 29/2020, OF 29 SEPTEMBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE FIELD OF TELEWORK IN PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIVES AND HUMAN RESOURCES IN THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM TO FRONT THE HEALTH CRISIS PROVIDED BY COVID-19. [[File number 130/000030]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u92	We continue the agenda with the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 29/2020 of 29 September of urgent measures in the field of teleworking in public administrations and human resources in the National Health System to deal with the health crisis caused by COVID-19. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon to all of you. Greetings. I come to this plenary session of the Congress to ask for the vote in favor of validation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u94	Wait a minute, Minister. If you leave the Chamber, do it quietly, please. Go ahead, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u95	Thank you very much, President. He said that he was coming to this plenary of Congress to ask his colleagues to vote in favour of the validation of Royal Decree-Law 29/2020 of 29 September of urgent measures in the field of teleworking in public administrations and human resources in the National Health System to deal with the health crisis caused by the COVID-19, which we adopted in the Council of Ministers on 29 September. I will therefore divide my intervention into two parts: the first will be on teleworking in public administrations and the second on human resources in the National Health System. I therefore begin with teleworking and I would like to share with your ladies and gentlemen the conditions under which this royal decree has been drawn up. I begin with my thanks to all the people and institutions who have been part of this great work that the technical teams of the different public administrations and also of the trade union organizations have done, as well as to each of those responsible for the will to communicate and to understand that they have demonstrated. I would also like to express - and I think it is shared - the recognition of the work of all public employees, who have made it possible for the provision of public services to be a reality, despite the difficulties we have often had to overcome. [[Applauds]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. My appreciation to all of them and all of them. They have heard me say many times from this rostrum and in the public interventions that I have had occasion to realize that it is absolutely essential that we be able to build among all and achieve a common minimum of understanding, a common minimum of understanding that this country needs today more than ever, ladies and gentlemen, to continue to move forward and progress. Well, this royal decree-law, on the teleworking side, is a good example of what I think it means to do politics in a good way, to do good politics. I believe that we all agreed that the need to regulate this organizational modality was imperative, especially in the times we live in, because so far, in some way, the reality is that we had advanced to our own legal consideration or regulation, even though we had some agreements at international level, other agreements at European level, some rule, but none with the cancellation and incardination that this one must have in the Basic Staff Regulations. It is true that before the pandemic, during the pandemic and at the end the ministry I have the honour to preside over has issued resolutions that have allowed us to spend all this time and that the regulation of distance work in public administrations has been possible, but it was absolutely imperative that it could be regulated and reflected in the Basic Staff Regulations and therefore applicable to all public administrations. This regulation, ladies and gentlemen, is the result of consensus, the result of dialogue and intense work between the autonomous communities, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and the Government of Spain, and also the result of a great deal of agreement at the general bureau of the trade unions that make up it, the General Bureau of Negotiation. All this process to regulate teleworking in public administrations begins on 11 June, when a conference of public administrations takes place after bilateral meetings that had been held by those who spoke to each and every one of the leaders of the autonomous public administrations of this country. At that conference we agreed on who we spoke, that is, the Government of Spain, the autonomous communities and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities, to regulate teleworking, and, moreover, we agreed to do so jointly. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, within the Committee on the Coordination of Public Employment, we set up a working group, so that this group, which has met around three times before the final approval, was the one to draft together - I mean, the drafting board of autonomous communities, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and the Government of Spain - a modification of this kind, that is to say, from above in a participatory and shared way. Therefore, I also thank those who have made this wording possible. I reiterate, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the result of agreement and dialogue, from below, because I believe that it gives it important legitimacy, not only in law, but also in fact in the terms expressed by Professor Jürgen Habermas. I think it is very important: legal legitimacy and also de facto legitimacy. That is why I have started my speech by thanking all the parties, in particular the trade unions that have signed this agreement at the general table, that is, Commissions, CSIF and UGT, to whom I would like to acknowledge their continued willingness to dialogue and to reach agreements. And also, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to thank my colleague, the Minister of Finance, and her entire team - our collaboration is close, but in this particular regulation - and therefore make it public from this rostrum. Some considerations, as a flash, if I may, of what telework in public administrations means. First of all, it is a pioneering rule, ladies and gentlemen, which introduces a comprehensive regulation of a new mode of service provision, which is teleworking. This royal decree-law implies an amendment of the EBEP, adding a new article, 47 bis, which will apply, given its basic character, to two and a half million employees and public employees throughout the country, therefore in all the public administrations of this country. The purpose of emergency legislation is defined by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and by the pandemic situation in which we find ourselves and also by regulating, as we have done, telework in the private sector. We felt that it was very important that the public and private sectors should also be at hand in this regulation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, basic rule, rule applicable to all public administrations, rule applicable to both civil servants and workers and, therefore, a common framework shared between all public administrations. Each public administration will have a period of six months, if it so wishes, to adapt this regulation of EBEP to its own respective autonomous or territorial scope. Characteristics and singularities that I'm going to comment on in order to request your validation. First, this regulation is a new form of organization of work in public administrations. Secondly, this mode of delivery of work can be developed as long as the needs of the service permit and, therefore, it is obviously done outside the units of the Administration through the use of information and communication technologies. Moreover, this mode of work is neither ordinary nor absolute. The ordinary mode remains the face-to-face mode and, in addition, each Administration will determine how face-to-face can be combined with telework, always guaranteeing, ladies and gentlemen, direct or face-to-face attention to citizens in the provision of public services. In addition, teleworking is defined in this regulation on a voluntary and reversible basis. Therefore, voluntarity and reversibility are two key vectors of this regulation that we have agreed and that we present to you today. Of course, tasks that are likely to be teleworking must be able to be teleworking and, moreover, obviously, the public employee must have the digital skills necessary for his performance. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, of course, any public employee, whatever form of work he performs, has the same rights and duties in any of them. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, public administrations must equip public employees with the appropriate technological means to carry out this mode. However, each public administration, since we are talking about a basic regulation, that is, a regulation of minimums so that each autonomous or municipal administration can develop it, even the General Administration of the State, it will be the one that has to define the technological means for this performance. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, this modality must be expressly authorized by the administrative unit of the administration concerned and must also be carried out in accordance with objective criteria for access and, as I have said, compatible with the face-to-face modality, and in no case, of course, can result in non-compliance with the working day or the working hours of the same. Ladies and gentlemen, without prejudice to the voluntary nature of this service, you must, of course, ensure that the needs of the service are met at every moment and in every place. I would like to share with all of you that the value of this measure means opening a path for this government of progress towards a 21st century administration, a 21st century public administration that, as President Sánchez has already announced in the presentation of the space of the Plan Spain can, is part of one of the ten lever policies. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time the public administration is going to be part of one of the lever policies that will allow our country to address this plan of reforms, investments, transformations and resilience in order, without a doubt, to reach a point of inflection, a point of inflection in this aspect that I am commenting on, which we also hope and wish - and that is the determination of this government to which I am a party - to be a point of non-return, to recover and properly weigh the value of the public. Always but especially in these circumstances of difficulty we have found the value of the public. Without the public, without public institutions and without public employees, the response to this pandemic would not have been the same. That is why I am grateful for the recognition that this House has made when I spoke about public employees. And, moreover, to contribute, ladies and gentlemen, to the great transformations that we have ahead in this country, where telework is going to be a fundamental milestone, and it is already in the National Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience. Having said that, I am going to comment on the second part or the other major issue that regulates this royal decree-law, which are the health measures that the Ministry of Health has incorporated into this royal decree-law because of urgent need. I would like to point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that these are absolutely exceptional measures, the sole objective of which is to strengthen the National Health System throughout the national territory. Therefore, exceptional and transitional measures, as established by the Royal Decree-Law itself, in the field of human resources of our National Health System that reproduce - listen well - the measures that have already been taken during the state of alarm. Therefore, these are not new measures, they are measures that have already taken place in Spain as a result of the state of alarm throughout the country and that make it possible - they do not mandate - for the autonomous communities, if they wish, to hire health professionals in the face of the overload of the system and the pressure of assistance. I want to mention and share - and I do, if I may, in a preventive way, understand correctly - that this measure has been included at the request of the Autonomous Communities. It is a request that this Government of Spain understands well and stands alongside the Autonomous Communities and that has been made absolutely urgently, because urgent was the situation of many Autonomous Communities, and especially that of one of them, which has requested it. I would therefore like to share with you, ladies and gentlemen, that one day before the adoption of this royal decree-law, when it was included, an extraordinary meeting of the Human Resources Commission of the National Health System was held to address this situation and propose measures, and so it was. I would also like to say that there is documentary record of what I am saying to you, so that no one has any doubt of the intention, of the good intention of this Government and of the Minister, my colleague Illa, of why we have introduced into this royal decree these measures on human resources of the National Health System: because it has been at the express request of the Autonomous Communities, and this Government, understanding that there could be other ways, has understood the exceptionality and urgency of the Autonomous Communities, and, as such, we have expressed and collected it; at the request of the Autonomous Communities, ladies and gentlemen, with documentary record, and, if they do not have it, here I have the documentation that supports it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we give an urgent and immediate response. We were asked at the meeting of the COVID group and we were asked in writing, because there was a lack of health personnel and we understood the reasons for urgency and peremptivity that the Autonomous Communities were sending us. We responded and allowed the autonomous communities or Ingesa to hire those health professionals who, having conducted selective tests of specialized health training, would not have obtained a place in the 2019-2020 call of the MIR. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Health has already transferred to the Autonomous Communities, which are competent in the field of health, the list of the 13,880 health and non-health professionals who may be available during this transitional period and as an exceptional measure the Autonomous Communities have it for their benefit. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible for specialists who are not Community doctors - therefore outside the scope of the European Union and provided that the evaluation committee has issued the proposal report, i.e. it is in the first stage of the processing dossier - to be recruited if the reasons are urgent and the autonomous community so decides. Also, ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree includes the possibility that the autonomous communities, which are the ones with competence in the field of health, can have both medical and nursing personnel to care for the units in the hospitals or other different areas and primary care if there were deficits. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that this measure, just as it has its pros, has its cons, but in any case I would like to reiterate that it has been in response to the request made and given the evolution of the pandemic itself and the situation of resurgence in this second wave. Many autonomous communities have expressed this, and that is what this Government has intended by coming to the call of the autonomous communities, because we believe deeply in co-governance, because we believe in co-responsibility and because we want to be at the side of the autonomous communities in the performance of their competences in the best possible way. We have done so with the COVID Fund: EUR 16 billion for the first time, unprecedented, non-reimbursable, for the Autonomous Communities; EUR 9 billion only for health expenditure, understanding that the Autonomous Communities have borne the brunt of this expenditure. The Spanish Government has therefore assumed the deficit as a result of this extra amount added to the Autonomous Communities: 9000 for health expenditure, 5000 for expenditure in the case of loss of income and 2000 for educational expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that these are important measures to help, I insist, the Autonomous Communities, together with a procedure which was also essential in order to leave no doubt, to amend the Law on the Management of Health Professions so that some tests can be carried out in a telematic way, by electronic means, which also greatly facilitates their scope of action. For my part, ladies and gentlemen, nothing more. I'll be at your disposal. I thank you for your attention and ask for a position in favour of the adoption of this rule to the extent that you consider it appropriate and desirable. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u96	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I have the floor on behalf of this group, Mrs Velasco Morillo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u97	Thank you very much, President. I regret that you are the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service and not the Minister of Health who presents this royal decree, an article against more than three that refers to health professionals. Once again it shows the health minister's back towards health professionals. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, my first words must be a reminder of the victims of this pandemic and of the recognition of all the health professionals and public servants and, in particular, of the more than 65,000 health workers infected by COVID who, since the beginning of this terrible pandemic, have suffered from the miscarriages and lack of concern for them of this Government and who are also leading us to the most devastating effects on the health and the economy that our country has experienced in recent years. Health professionals are the main asset of the National Health System, professionals who deserve the support not only of all Spaniards, as we have shown, but of their Government. And what have you found them with? Weakness when it comes to acquiring and equipping them with material, PPE, and non-recognition of the professional disease. And now there is a royal decree-law published in the State Official Gazette which, instead of reinforcing them, does what it does is to endanger the excellent level of our professionals, the very high level of training that has been achieved. A decree-law that is born without agreement, minister, however much you want to move that reality today, because there has been no dialogue or participation of the health professionals, who are the ones fighting against COVID in hospitals and health centers and therefore it is approved behind the backs of those who are really putting a stop to this pandemic. They have ignored and despised the Medical Profession Forum, the Health Professions Forum and the Framework Forum for Social Dialogue. They have ignored the National Human Resources Commission. You have alluded here to the fact that there has been a debate and that you have documentation. If the documentation is to be reflected in the record that has gone through that committee without any debate, that is not to take the autonomous communities into account. They serve us on a tray again, what they think is arbitrary. They impose a standard once again by jumping the bodies of participation of the Law on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System. Minister, I don't know if you're taking it into account. They have no limits in their arbitrary way of acting, attacking our specialized training system which, to date, has represented the best Spanish health model since its creation at the initiative of Don José María Segovia de Arana, which was consolidated with Royal Decree 127/1984 and was promoted in Royal Decree 183/2008 on specialized health training in health sciences, which was developed thanks to Law 44/2003 on the management of health professions. A system of training of our doctors for which our health system has been praised by the vast majority of countries of the world, as has been done with regard to the national organization of transplants, and they are throwing it on the ground with a royal decree-law like the one they bring us to this House today affecting the official qualifications that are required, the curricula and the conditions for the exercise of an advanced system of health care quality for which so much has been fought for so many years. They all put their feet up. They use the figure provided for in Royal Decree 1146/2006 of 6 October, regulating the special employment relationship of residence for the training of specialists in health sciences, which we know as the MIR system, for the recruitment of personnel for which no training programme is to be followed and which can become the gateway to the precarious work of the public health system. In addition, they underestimate the situation of the RIMs who have obtained a place. This is what is reflected in this royal decree-law. And if this is not enough, this royal decree gives the powers of specialist doctors to doctors who have not obtained the specialty, which is to the detriment of the quality of care and the safety of patients, which, in my opinion, is outside the European rules and in particular the recommendations on Directive 2005/36, set out in the Commission communication as guidelines on the free movement of healthcare professionals and the minimum harmonisation of training in relation to emergency measures against COVID-19. Another element of concern for all health professionals and for my parliamentary group is that of staff mobility. As you all know, in the toughest moments of the pandemic, health care workers were organized on a voluntary basis to cover the care pressure generated by COVID-19; they are now trying to impose this royal decree-law without even consulting professionals, demonstrating a lack of knowledge about the work of specialist doctors or even the work of the different health professionals. This shows that they do not know what the functions of a doctor or nurse are, which they also encourage with professional intrusiveness. I'll give you an example, Minister. How would you feel that, for example, an anatomopathologist would work in primary care, in a post of family and community doctor, or that a nurse would replace a family and community doctor or vice versa, that a family and community doctor would replace a primary care nurse? How would that patient's safety be guaranteed? I'm not saying all this, it's being moved by professional organizations. Your Honor, you've been asked for a correction, and do you know what your answer was? Send them a clarification note on one of the articles that collects professional mobility, nothing to do with what they have published and specifying what functions a nurse has to do. [[shows a document]] I don't know, but, as far as I know, a clarification note can't change what's published in the 'BOE', which once again shows the taking of hair to health professionals. It is another example of this Government's abandonment to the professionals, imposing what was the voluntary collaboration of the health care workers during the worst months of the pandemic by royal decree-law. We already know that we are before the government that has managed the worst pandemic in all of Europe, and you are part of it. I would like to recall what the University of Cambridge, the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention and the international press have said: And that is because it did not act in time and because during the descalation it changed the image that everything had ended and it was not real either. We will all remember all our lives that of 'we have defeated the virus and controlled the pandemic' that the President of the Government said. And, instead of getting ahead of the rebounds and taking action on the subject, what he did was go on vacation. They came late for the protection of professionals, without criteria, without clear indicators, without experts, and now they intend to mask their harmful anti-human resources policy, but what they do is generate even more problems, more precarious work and more disappointment among health professionals. It's hard to make more mistakes. It is the result of its authoritarianism and self-sufficiency. This pandemic cannot serve the Government as an alibi to go against what represents the key to the success of our health system, which is the professionals. You, instead of this unfortunate royal decreeley, had to have brought the Commission's agreement on reconstruction with regard to professionals. I do not know whether you have been able to see the recommendations of that agreement, which contained a human resources plan whose priority was employment stability, as well as to develop a remunerative policy that would improve current levels within the framework of the legally established dialogue, that would establish the mechanisms and incentives necessary to recover many health professionals who migrated to other countries, that would increase the number of specialized health training places and strategic personnel management plans. [[assent of the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service, Darias San Sebastián]] You're not reliable. In just over two months they have not presented a single measure and yet present a real decreeley that has managed to bring all health professionals in agreement, that is against: College Medical Organization, General Council of Nursing, Medical Profession Forum, Federation of Scientific Medical Associations, professional unions... Even Workers' Commissions tell you that social dialogue is being skipped. You have pulverized social dialogue and there is indignation among the professionals, who ask them to withdraw the Royal Decree Law 29/2020 as soon as possible and reject the confusion and insecurity that you know how to make like no one else. I'm finishing up, President. I also tell you never to count on the People's Party to go against the professionals. They're not gonna find us. The best thing you can do, Minister, is to withdraw this royal decree. What has become clear to us today again is that the Minister of Health does not face the professionals. Once again they preach one thing and apply another. Sanitaries and Spaniards don't deserve a minister of health like we have now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u98	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u99	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we value the objectives of this royal decree-law of urgent measures as a timely and necessary reaction of the Government and the public administrations to address the challenges that COVID19 has raised, both because of the need to encourage, exploit and regulate the work of the officials of the Administration itself and because of the need to equip themselves with health personnel to fill the gaps in the cut-off of public health staff, which are not covered, or the ill-treatment of health personnel in the form of precarious contracts that have eroded the human capital of health in Spain, so necessary - as we now see - at present. These two objectives proposed by the Royal Decree-Law in our case should be multiplied by two in Spain emptied, both because of the limitation of telecommunications networks, which will prevent teleworking even in the officials themselves of the General Administration of the State or of the Autonomous Communities, and with regard to health care in primary care centres, which in many cases are closed or lack the personnel necessary to meet the needs of the population at risk for age vis-à-vis this COVID-19. Therefore, with a certain tone of sorrow but with its foundation, Minister, we are going to propose two decrees that go on the same issue but with two different approaches. There would be a need for a real urgent decree or regulation that would allow for the most urgent provision of high-capacity Internet telecommunications networks of at least 100 metric megawatts in all rural areas of Spain. If private companies are not able to meet this need, the public authorities must take care of it. At that time, when broadband fibre networks and mobile telephony allow it, this royal decree that is now validated will also be a reality in emptied Spain. [[The lady]] A second royal decree or regulation would be focused on health. In particular, ensure the availability of professionally qualified staff, modernise equipment and telecommunications and ensure hours of face-to-face care for the public in all primary care centres in Spain, including those located in the interior provinces and in rural areas, in accordance with the opinion of the Health Bureau of the Reconstruction Commission. On the other hand, we do not want to miss the opportunity and take advantage to point out the problems - with the obvious aim of being overcome, not only to show them - of the digital administration in Spain until now, which is closely related to the teleworking of public officials; a problem that suffers citizens, companies and also professional managers, who are subjected to administrative deadlines not always accessible by the digital deficiencies of our territory. In other words, the deadlines set for the telematics administration do not take into account the lack or difficulties of telematics in the territory. In this sense, we can point out as needs for improvement the limitations of digital certificates and digital identity, as well as the unnecessary diversification of different certificates between different public administrations. Also problems of compatibility between browsers with digital certificates or digital signatures. In turn, the platforms of public administrations are obsolete, giving rise to slow and even blocking of the web portals of many administrations; the problems that arise in general when carrying out administrative procedures through the online services of public administrations, and also the need to design an electronic administration that is focused on the user, citizens and businesses. All of this we believe is a consequence of the lack of specialized digitization personnel to drive a real e-government, and the need also for us to train citizens or to train ourselves as citizens in digital competition. It's just that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, I have the floor Mr. Legarda Uriarte. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u101	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the validation of Royal Decree-Law 29/2020, which, first of all, regulates teleworking in the field of public administrations, of staff at their service, both officials and labour personnel, once the latter staff, labour, was excluded from the scope of Royal Decree-Law 28/2020. This decree-law, which we are now discussing, introduces in its first article a new article 47 bis in the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, which, in our view, faithfully respects the previous agreements reached with the Autonomous Communities, without prejudice to introducing a novel aspect after its negotiation with the trade union representation as to whether the Administration should provide and maintain the technological means necessary for persons working in this mode; an obligation on the other hand, on which we have no objection, since it seems reasonable from any point of view. As for the content of the new precept of EBEP, from our point of view too, it limits its scope correctly to what should be a regulation of the basic notes of this form of telework, such as the same concept of telework, its suitability with the content of the job, the principle of necessity, its compatibility with face-to-face work, its voluntariness and reversibility, except exceptional assumptions, and the equality of rights and duties with regard to face-to-face work. Apart from these nuclear aspects, which are common to any Administration, the specific provision of telework must, as already indicated, be adapted to the conditions and characteristics of each Administration, after consultation with the representation of the workers, as also indicated in the second paragraph of this Article 47a, when it provides that the provision of the service shall be carried out in the terms of the rules which are laid down in the development of this basic statute, which shall be the subject of collective negotiation in the relevant field and shall include objective criteria in the access to this mode of provision of services, in full compliance with our view, also with the scope and concept of what should be a basic regulation and in particular what should be achieved in the fulfilment of the bases of the statutory legal regime for staff serving public administrations and which should allow a reasonable margin of development for each Administration to develop and implement it, in the sense precisely established by the High Court with regard to what should consist of this State competence under Article 149(118a) of the Constitution. In short, by establishing the common legal denominator necessary for application throughout the territory from which each autonomous community can, in defence of its own interests, introduce the peculiarities which it considers appropriate within the framework of competence assigned to it by its statute in the relevant field. In turn, on the other hand - it has also been pointed out, ladies and gentlemen - the decree-law that we discussed, on 29/2020, contains a second part with regard to other regulations relating to the human resources of the health system for an initial period of twelve months, which can be extended for periods of three months and according to the needs of the health crisis arising from the COVID-19. Thus, the Autonomous Communities and also the National Institute of Health Management are allowed new types and modalities of recruitment so that, if they so require, they have a greater number of professionals to relieve the pressure to which the health system may be subjected and, as stated in the explanatory statement, to ensure an adequate service to the citizens to whom they serve. In addition, these same managers of the National Health System, also on a transitional and exceptional basis, are allowed to assign medical and nursing personnel to jobs and care devices other than their own in the same or other workplace, and also to the same end to have a greater number of health professionals where they are most needed. In short, ladies and gentlemen, these are measures to deal with the lack of health professionals at the present time; measures that were already in place, as has been said, during the state of alarm but which fell at its end; measures that, at the time, helped, but let us not forget the fear that they also raised among health system professionals by enabling, if not acting with precise caution, a negative impact on public health, either by placing contracted personnel without the qualification of a specialist in tasks that exceeded their training or by transferring health personnel from the National Health System, on this occasion, to posts whose content was not consistent with their knowledge or experience. As we have all had the opportunity to read in the press or to listen in the media, these fears have reappeared by taking a new course in these measures with this Decree-Law 29/2020, measures which we believe should have been the subject of further debate and deliberation with health system professionals in order to, precisely, annoy their fears. We also believe that they should have been the subject of further discussion and deliberation with the Autonomous Communities, as the specific needs were brought to their attention just the day before the Council of Ministers approved them. As the minister has told us, it is true that it was at the request of some autonomous communities who needed it or believe they need it, but it cannot be ignored that it would have been appropriate to analyse the effects of these measures while they were in force and whether they had caused some distortion to justify the fears that were expressed at the time and that have also been expressed today. These fears - we must also point out - coincide in the present time with the movement and discomfort of the MIR collective regarding the bad contractual and labor conditions in which they consider that they are subjected in their labor and training activity for the acquisition of their specialized health certification. I'm finishing up. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that these are measures which, in order not to have a negative impact on public health, must be used in an undiminished manner and with due caution, including the appropriate and necessary collective bargaining, in particular in the case of secondments of health workers to jobs other than their own. Ladies and gentlemen, without prejudice to the cautions noted, we shall vote in favour of the content of the decree-law discussed by voting in favour of its validation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u103	This is prodigious. There has been a Member from Esquerra, Mr Salvador, who, in his obsessive phobia with Citizens, has set traps and, knowing that we can only be half the parliamentary group, has criticized the fact that a colleague of mine has left in order not to exceed the agreed number. The prodigious thing about it is that I'm going out here and the caregiver isn't here. It's amazing! Left is prodigious! Four years ago they were leaving in eighteen months; they say they are from the left, but they are nationalists; they overwhelm for not being, and they leave. The skeleton of Lobezno is made with the material of the deputies of Esquerra. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] The decree presented to us today by the Government has two distinct parts. I will start with the first, with which we are most in agreement, Minister, which is the reform of the Basic Staff Regulations as regards teleworking. In the biggest crises, it is when big changes are also taking place in society. Yes in the Crimean War, for example, there were dramatic moments, such as the charge of the Light Brigade, but Florence Nightingale invented and learned modern nursing, from all this so bad that we are going through we can draw some teachings. Moreover, that is the best tribute we can pay to so much pain and suffering, that it is not all in vain. We must come out of this crisis with a stronger health, a more prepared state, a better ministry, and a greater awareness of the need for science and the danger of charlatans and maguphs. But we can also draw lessons for everyday life, the main one: to value that we were happy before all this and we didn't know it and, in the most pragmatic aspect, that you can work a lot from home and regular, therefore, telework. In the private sector, teleworking people do not reach 5% of the employed, half of them in the European Union and three times less than in other countries in our environment such as the Netherlands or France. Of the public sector better not to talk, because teleworking was a residual thing before all this we have experienced, and this is not the fault of this government or of the previous ones, but simply, I would dare to say, that it is an idiosyncrasy of us that being means working and not not being working, when many times it can be even the opposite. Now everything has changed, in Europe about half of the workers have started to telework and the same has happened in Spain, where, according to Eurofound data, around 45% of the employed have been teleworking during the pandemic, figures that in the case of the public sector have increased to two out of three employees - and you know it better than I - and have been teleworking. All this makes it necessary to have legal coverage for teleworking in all aspects that affect from contributions to models or to prevention of occupational risks, if you want to squeeze me. And so it has been done in the previous royal decree and so it is done in this first part of this royal decree. We are aware that teleworking is neither applicable to all cases nor is it the answer to all the needs that workers and companies may have nor is it free of controversy, but we believe that it should be encouraged in those cases where it is technically and functionally feasible, cases to further promote the productivity of our companies, to facilitate conciliation and even reverse depopulation. This is a very interesting aspect that would allow the development of telework, in pandemic and, of course, after it. Let's get this teaching out. Now we go to the second part of the royal decree, which leads us to abstain and not to vote in favour. Here is most of the controversy in our view, which includes exceptional human resources measures within the scope of the National Health System, measures which, although we can understand the difficulties that are going on, we believe have not been assessed with due consideration nor have they been subject to consultations with the health professionals we believe are indispensable, taking into account the very sensitive subject matter in question. No action should be taken on its back and in open confrontation with the people it affects. They've done it wrong. Serve this example: you propose that public health services be used by nursing staff and optional specialist medical specialists of any specialty to care units of another specialty other than yours, that is, within the same hospital center. Or that the same staff who provide services in hospital facilities go on to provide services in primary care centres in their area of influence to perform the functions of primary care medical personnel. Or that you can move these personnel to provide services in reference hospitals or field hospitals. In short, what you have approved is the forced mobility of health personnel, enabling public health services to do with medical and nursing personnel basically what they consider appropriate on their own and at risk, and unilaterally. We cannot share these measures that we are being asked to do, gentlemen of the Government, because what you bring us here is a proposal that seeks to give a letter of nature to actions that could be carried out would be nothing more than a flight forward. We are aware that this is necessary; in fact, we have told it from autonomous governments, but it is the form that has failed and the situation in which there are some specialties that can attract personnel. Keep in mind that the pandemic has greatly worsened the situation of chronically ill people as well, who need their specialists, and that we can be taking resources from one site to another and leaving unattended very important issues, especially in the pandemic. For example, cardiovascular patients, it is seen that with confinement they have worsened significantly. In addition, the parties forming the Government voted against at the Reconstruction Bureau an urgent reinforcement of troops that we put forward, similar to that of France, and that was a good solution to this situation. As I say, we will abstain and vote in favour of its processing as a bill. We have demonstrated, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, that we are responsible. I don't want to think if I had caught other parties in the opposition: they would be making the bridge pine, surrounding Congress disguised as viruses on the street. Look at the one they hooked up with a poor dog when Ebola. Finally, correct. We will abstain and vote in favour of processing as a bill and there we will be able to fix some of these flaws. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Royal Decree-Law 29/2020 brings us back several measures to respond to the pandemic caused by COVID-19. The first relates to teleworking in public administrations, not regulated in the previous decree, and introduces a new article defining teleworking, but leaves all its regulation to the subsequent legislative or regulatory development, as well as collective bargaining, which means that it is completely empty of content, since until such regulation can hardly be put into operation. As far as health-care provision is concerned, the first, concerning the possibility of hiring professionals without specialisation, is somewhat questionable. We understand that hiring professionals without proper training can lead to a devaluation of medical care, denying patients adequate care. In any case, we believe that it cannot be equated with the lack of approval, since the professional in this case has the training, although the administrative procedure to give it validity in the Spanish State is lacking. The same applies to the provision concerning the possibility of mobilizing health professionals within the province, which does not guarantee the labour rights of workers or the rights of patients to decent care. Clear criteria should be established, human resources should be mobilized from private health before resorting to professionals without proper qualifications or other health areas, above all to provide resources to enable the autonomous communities to strengthen primary care and the function of contact tracing, because we also know that these are the deficits that can explain the worrying current evolution of the pandemic, so, as you will understand, we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u106	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. In days like yesterday, some people compare Congress with the courtyard of a school. Indeed, in the courtyard of a school there is shouting, there is noise, as yesterday here and today at some point. But in the courtyard of a school we found joy, here yesterday we found hatred, resentment, pollution. Yesterday there was something else that differentiates the courtyard from a Congressional school of deputies: the courtyard of a school can be a learning space. I don't think we could say the same about this Congress yesterday. Yesterday I felt shame and sadness, and I honestly saw that some are more to be destroyed, those who do not accept the result that citizens voted freely and have not yet understood that they do not have a majority. Its obstructive attitude probably reinforces some in the conviction that this progressive majority must be maintained. And to the PSOE: we must take care of this progressive majority. Ladies and gentlemen, probably as a child, we should spend some time in the corner of thinking, especially for next week. We shall vote in favour of this decree and of all others. We've already voted. In particular, the intervention of the spokesman of the PP regarding this decree has just convinced us. Let the People's Party speak of precariousness when it was the one who made the labor reform or the one that has been attempted to carry whenever it has been able to public health, in short, is a sarcasm. [[Rumors]] There are things in the decree that in normal circumstances we would not like anything, in particular articles 2 and 3 - I am finishing, President - relating to the recruitment and assignment of medical and nursing staff, but we are in an exceptional situation and we understand that it requires exceptional answers, as they say both articles. Ensuring people's health must be above any other consideration and, as the competences of the autonomous communities are also respected, we will vote in favour, Minister. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u108	Thank you very much, Mr Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u109	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law essentially for two reasons. As regards the regulation of teleworking in public administrations, a new article is introduced in the EBEP. It seems reasonable to us, and most importantly, that each of the administrations will regulate in accordance with its circumstances the scope of teleworking, obviously respecting the principle of voluntarity and rationality. It is important that each autonomous community, even each of the municipalities, can establish a regulation that is obviously the result of collective bargaining in its field, but it seems necessary to us. A reasonable period of six months is set for each of the administrations to be able to do so because, of course, an autonomous community will surely be more agile and certain municipalities will need even the advice of deputies or other bodies of a supra-municipal nature. With regard to Articles 2 and 3, which essentially respond to a situation of extreme necessity in a situation which is also unequal throughout the Spanish State, they are given a broad framework which would certainly be difficult to understand and accept in other circumstances, but not so in the circumstances of a health emergency such as the one we have, such as that which is coming upon us with the continuous resurgences, which seems reasonable to us; just as it seems reasonable to us that in the end there should be room for each of the autonomous communities with competence in their field to exercise it or not. Why? Because, surely, there will be some autonomous communities in which by their circumstances, by the work they have done or by the health reality of that time it is not necessary and others yes, and these will have, or will have, to explain why this measure is being used. If any but it would be up to us to put into this is that it sets a period of twelve months and then the Minister of Health is given the power to extend it every three months. In any case, let us trust that one year will be sufficient time for this measure not to continue to be implemented. In any case, I repeat, we will support the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Bell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u111	President, I had asked for the intervention from the seat - I changed it this morning - because, in view of the fact that we have been with the COVID all morning, which is very late, that we have other royal decrees left and that our position is positive, I thought that I would not make use of the shift of the seven minutes that correspond to me, basically because it is also a royal decree of three articles that I will then comment on because the intervention of the minister has generated some element for me. But then, during this plenary session, I have accumulated work and, therefore, I have to answer. I'm sorry, I thought, come on, I'm not telling you anything, that total for what you have to hear... But I don't think so. Let's see, don't complain, that as a guarantor of your assistance I am already there. I'm in letters, but they're so little to tell if they're or aren't they're still coming out of me. This, on the one hand. On the other hand, what my colleague has said to you, and it is important, is that we have not taken a stand out of respect for the Government, for Parliament and for the citizens of Madrid, because we do not run for election in that particular place. Instead, you, who kick Barcelona, Tarragona, Lleida and Girona continuously from Malaga, are allowed the luxury of saying how things are in Catalonia continuously. The problem, therefore, is not that we are silent when it touches us, but that you speak when it does not touch them. [[Protests. - Rumors.]] As for Lobezno's spirit, I've been given a note. [[Rumors]] Shut up, please, all day. I've been given a note, and they say: cool, because it's unbreakable, because it's hard, because they're not going to twist us. But that spirit, gentlemen, is that of ghosts! They're dead, they're smoke, and they don't even know you guys don't paint anything, so much so that you spend the day begging to agree on the color of the curtains in the room where you're going to negotiate budgets. Man, for God's sake! There are things that frankly in this plenary are ridiculous. Yes, ghost spirit, nonexistent, but very scary, against the spirit of Lobezno. It's all there is. [[Laughter]] What's the point? Well, then, when you don't feel the opinion of other peers' performances, you shut up. Minister, your decree. As for the first article, the best thing you have is what you keep quiet, that is, what you don't have. At the very least, this time there has been no invasion of arbitrary competence and is therefore limited to basic legislation on teleworking affecting both civil servants and workers. In that sense we agree, although I must repeat what position we have respect for the Basic Staff Regulations, and that is that what should be a basic regulation is greatly broadened. With regard to the other two articles, it is true that some communities request this type of approval because there is a need for professionals in both the health and nursing fields. Therefore, the translation is given to what has also been mentioned many times in the Committee on Health, and in this respect we consider it to be relatively positive, although we have also talked many times about the regularization of people who would also help in the health field, and in this respect no steps have yet been taken. We are waiting for them because we believe they are important and essential. As regards the last article, which is mobility, as it has a reference to a temporary space - they have commented a moment ago -, for the moment we will accept it. Nor are we going to vote in favour of processing as a bill for the necessary speed of its implementation. I believe that, being positioned in all areas, our position has already become evident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs Vallugera. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u113	Thank you, President. At such a difficult time, this progressive coalition government is aware of the need to defend and strengthen the public more forcefully in the face of the privatizations of the right-wing governments. With regard to teleworking, after the e-government became more widespread in 2007, we are pleased that this Government is also laying the groundwork for allowing the right to teleworking and its exercise in the civil service and for prioritizing face-to-face attention to citizens. Telework has already been regulated in some area of the public sector, but it has had a very witnessful use. The pandemic has taught us that this model of work is, in addition to being valid, very necessary and very necessary to protect the health of public service workers. I'm going to give you an example of that testimonial use, an example that, in addition, catches me very close. Many Justice officials have been asking for telework in Andalusia for forty-six days from the Government of Moreno Bonilla, forty-six days for something as simple as enabling personal devices to telework or allowing them, as in other sectors, to pick up their devices from their jobs. Well, today, only a few pilot projects have been implemented that are proving to be very useful, effective and feasible, but for those in Andalusia only judges, judges, prosecutors and lawyers are authorized, but not officials of the Administration of Justice, possibly resulting in discrimination. They simply prevent them from accessing telework. It was clear that this figure needed to be reflected in the Basic Staff Regulations. With this royal decree, the result of the consensus, today we can say that telework has arrived to stay in the public administration as well. If the public sector in general has deteriorated in recent decades, in the health sector it has been done in a very bloody way, as a result of a privatization strategy that sought to weaken public health to give the feeling that private health works better. It was the perfect plan: to provide less resources for public health and to allocate more budgets to the private sector. And why? Because of this, primary care, emergency services and specialized centres would deteriorate, they would lack material, machinery would become obsolete, there would be fewer and fewer health and service professionals and, therefore, there would be more waiting lists. That's what Moreno Bonilla's government is trying to do in my autonomous community in Andalusia, doing the following. It closes emergencies in Matalascañas, El Rocío, Almonte, Mazagon, San Bartolomé, Moguer, Gibraleón or El Almendro; it provides more services to private clinics such as Pascual in provinces such as Cádiz with the excuse that public health is working badly and, in addition, increases the budget for private clinics and leads patients to them. We've been like this for months. Have waiting lists been reduced? The reality is, no. Why? Because that health chaos had only one purpose, favoring certain private health companies. But the pandemic came and it hit us with this reality at the front. With saturated care services; exhausted professionals, performing PCR tests, attending consultations, emergencies and even tracking, if public health is enduring in our country, despite some governments, is - and has been - at the expense of the health and effort of public health professionals. By the way, while in Madrid there are no tracers, PCRs and the data of contagion and death by COVID are falsified, its president Ayuso strikes against Andalusia calling us subsidized and saying that the best are in Madrid; she, who has never earned a salary that did not come from the public era and who took 400 000 euros from Avalmadrid. I want to tell you four things. First, having the capital is not the success of any Madrid government, much less its own, but it is the success of Philip III. [[rumors]] Secondly, fiscal dumping to attract companies is unfair competition and is what empties the autonomous communities. Thirdly, if it is the PER as far as subsidies are concerned, I have to tell you that this class hate speech is already very handy, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are specialists in watering public money your own pockets, your friendly companies or your B-box with the Gürtel. And fourth, the Government of Ayuso and Aguado has requested voluntary trackers, and when that appeal fails, which was absolutely predictable, they award the service to the Quiron group, which was already hiring trackers prior to the contract without any competition. What do we call this? What do we call it, ladies and gentlemen? [[Rumors]] I will give advice to Ayuso and Aguado, especially to Ayuso: be careful with your words because they can be turned against you. [[a lady MP: Tips for your home]] When my land is disqualified, Andalusia, as it has done, is not throwing at the people who are taking my land forward, it is not throwing at them, but it is throwing at the poor management of the Government of Bonilla and Marín, the People's Party and Citizens, supported by the far right of VOX, which promised to bring change to Andalusia at last and which has brought nothing but health and educational chaos, friendliness, unemployment and burdening industry. [[Protests]] Stop playing with public health, respect citizens, respect health professionals and leave Andalusia also in peace. [[Applauds]] I'm going to focus again on the subject to finish. [[Protests]] The possibility of hiring in a way... yeah, I know it stings them... [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] [[Mr. Guijarro García: Shut up, let me talk!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u114	Quiet, please. Quiet. Mr. Guijarro, please. Mr. Guijarro, I call you to order for the first time. [[Mr. Guijarro García: Always the same, always the same.-Protests]] Mr. Guijarro, silence, please! [[Mr. Guijarro García: That's all right.]] Go on, Mrs. Franco.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u116	He's running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u117	But I was running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u118	You've got 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u119	Thank you. I know that a working-class deputy who defends her land hurts, but it's reality. [[Applauds]] He said - to conclude - that the possibility of hiring exceptionally in order to strengthen public health in the face of this second wave of contagion in no case implies a consolidation of employment, but rather to cover an exceptional situation with guarantees of professionalism, which many of the autonomous communities asked for and which this Government has heard. But we also need finalist parties to strengthen it structurally; strengthening public health is key, it is a question of law and it is a question of public health. This Government is strengthening public services because they are - and you know they are - the greatest guarantee of democracy and because in addition to these times, beyond the guarantee of democracy, they are also the greatest guarantee to save lives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on a previous note, Mrs de Esquerra Republicana, I would like to say that I am a Member of Parliament for Alicante and when I come up to that rostrum I speak on behalf of all the Spaniards, as well as the Deputy of Citizens for Malaga and as well as you, although it bothers you, who is also Spanish and has a Spanish passport and a Spanish DNI and will have it all your life, my lady. [[applause.- Mrs. Valluguera Balañà makes negative gestures]] The Government is now presenting to us for validation this royal decree, which is a true stubble and that is why we are going to explain, commenting on its three articles one by one, the reasons why we are going to vote against it. In parts. Article 1, subject of teleworking. It should be borne in mind that from the point of view of VOX there are three aspects that generate doubts as to the formal validity of this article. One, largely conditional on the effectiveness of the new article 47 bis of the EBEP on the existence of the rules governing its development and on prior collective bargaining, calls into question whether the requirements of article 86.1 of the Constitution are met and refer to the extraordinary and urgent need. Two, it is ensured that the installation and maintenance of technological means will be paid to all public officials teleworking at their homes and this, of course, generates questions such as, for example, what exactly will be paid, if it is the entire facility or part of it; whether there is any budget provision for this expenditure and how much it would amount, and how would this expenditure be paid, with more public deficit or with more taxes at the expense of citizens? Three, attention to the public is not guaranteed to be of quality. Currently, telephone care does not work because it is already collapsed and let us not talk about the disaster of teleworking in health centres. Minister, do you really believe that doctors can dispatch their patients by having phone conversations? Doctors need personal contact with their patients to make a correct diagnosis and they need to do so safely for themselves and their patients, so I beg you to leave them - you and your Government - with excuses and put the necessary means for them to do so or at least make others put them. With regard to article 2, in the area of health contracting, on the one hand, the temporary recruitment of health professionals who do not have the qualification of specialist to carry out the functions proper to a health specialty, which in itself poses a risk to the patient, who receives the care of a professional without the required qualification, and on the other hand, foreign professionals with foreign qualifications of specialist are also authorised to work in Spain as such, after validation by the Ministry of Health, which would be an interesting solution if it were not because the reality shows that five out of seven of these professionals who receive this accreditation automatically go to work abroad because they receive better wages. In short, the Government proposes to regulate the recruitment of professionals who are outside the health system, but it forgets who are already working within the system and playing their lives for all of us. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Government, have you heard that on October 27th a medical strike has been called throughout Spain against this royal decree-law? Have you not heard that in the average of Spain you have the MIR on strike because you do not recognize them decent working conditions? What do you have against Spanish resident doctors? Look, ladies and gentlemen, it was very easy to fix this problem. It was enough, for example, to modify the current Royal Decree-Law 1146/2006 so that when, for the needs of the service, Spanish resident health care providers perform specialist functions, they are paid for what they actually do. If we demand a resident to do the work of a specialist, let's treat him as such. [[Applauds]] But didn't you come to put an end to junk work and unworthy jobs? Tell us how it is explained, first, that you forget to dignify the work of residents when in emergency situations you are exploited by the system as cheap labor and, second, that you propose to hire new health professionals by applying the same operating regime to them. This does not say VOX, but its actual decree-law, in Article 2(1)(a). By the way, to put the means in place so that the thousands of Spanish healthcare professionals who have emigrated can return to Spain, that's not what we're talking about, is it? And already put in search of health resources against the pandemic, where is our committee of experts? Where? You publicly recognized that it had never existed. And I ask myself, wasn't this urgent? Isn't this urgent, Minister? How many thousands of lives of Spaniards could we have saved if we had had an expert and not a political leadership? Minister, who is going to take responsibility for so many people that your government has already left behind? You? The Minister of Health? But the gold medal of this gallery of horrors is undoubtedly carried by article 3. It seems to the government that specialists are like football chromes, interchangeable. According to the proposed text, each autonomy is free to put the analysts to perform endoscopy and the nephrologists to place pacemakers, and not content with it, also provide in the second section that the nurses can make primary care doctors. What kind of joke is this? Is the government legalizing professional intrusiveness, Minister? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's not all over here. It turns out that with this royal decree-law any official with a health degree may be forced to change his job for another in a hospital. However, the Government has forgotten to force the freed trade unions in the health sector to get to work. [[Applauds]] How do you notice, Minister, the hand of friendly unions when you negotiate, right? As George Orwell would say, for this government we are all equal, but some are more equal than others. And there is no doubt, of course, that the current trade union model is coming to an end because it has been delegitimized on its own. That is why my parliamentary group will vote against the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aceves Galindo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u123	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you are both welcome to this House. As I think everyone will understand me, I would like to start by thanking you for the work you have done, with social dialogue, with agreement, with consensus, and for bringing important measures to this House for our country. And I would like to say to your teams that the Socialist Parliamentary Group - not now, which is more necessary than ever, but always - gives its support and applauds the employees and public employees of this country. Unfortunately, many groups are forgotten and use these debates, as always, to make them harmless or try to wear down the Government. On behalf of the Socialist Group, thanks to employees and public employees. [[Applauds]] And as previous issues before the debate, because, ladies and gentlemen, they are two distinct issues, I wanted to focus attention on two aspects. First of all, there's some piece of paper I heard from some speakers this morning here. What a piece of paper during this afternoon's session to defend the indefensible. When this House is brought up with social dialogue and with consensus on matters such as telework, certain groups, such as the People's Parliamentary Group, do not even mention it and dare to say that the government's measures run counter to social dialogue. Mrs. Velasco, you and I are from the same land, Castile and Lion. Ask Castile and León where the social dialogue is thanks to the government of PP and Citizens. He's about to disappear in Castile and Leon. [[Applauds]] Second important aspect that I wanted to highlight. It turns out that it is exclusively a measure that is important for our country because it involves regulating basically a practice that is true that it worked in a collateral way at some times, but that it was necessary to implement it through the pandemic, telework, and they don't even mention it. It is brought, giving the opportunity to reach an agreement in the cross-sectoral with the Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and with the autonomous communities, and you neither mention it nor like it. They believe so little in co-governance and dialogue, because they are permanently in the mood, that they do not even highlight that. The truth is, it's unfortunate. Last previous question I wanted to mention. Look at the perverseness of this afternoon's debate. It turns out that the Autonomous Communities are asking, demanding something from the Government, and now they are opposing it. I have it here, Mrs. Velasco, but I'm not taking it out. Mr. Feijoo, you know him, don't you? Well, Fernández Mañueco doesn't, because he hides under the vice president and doesn't say so; the vice president and Mrs. Casado say so. You know, not Mr. Married, but the counselor in Castile and Leon; he does not say it because he is neither in nor expected. But it turns out that Mr Aguado and Mrs Ayuso are demanding it from the government and you are now opposing it. Explain to us what the People's Party is going to do. Do you want to see from Genoa that the councils can apply this formula or are you going to let them do it? Explain this, because you ask for it, the government, in an important exercise of responsibility, brings it to this House as quickly as possible, through a real decreeley, you criticize it and tomorrow you will apply it? Mrs Velasco, with all the affection I have for you, I tell you that it cannot be that the kings of public cuts in this country are now the princes of incongruity and irresponsibility. It can never be. [[Applauds]] One more issue that I think is important in this regard. When I was preparing for the speech in the debate I thought we had been quite sensible in our country's health with Minister Illa and above all some groups wanted to mix everything up and mention issues that were not applied here. Today the Minister of Health has demonstrated the solvency, the closeness and the way to deal with the problems in our country. So, ladies and gentlemen, how lucky we are to have a minister of health like Mr Illa. [[Applauds]] One more question I ask you, ladies and gentlemen. I say this with calmness: will no autonomous community in our country apply health measures? Are you going to tell the citizens that, after requiring the government to amend the rule to allow it to be implemented in the health field, they are not going to use this measure now? And what are they going to answer to the citizenry? They say there were no doctors, but SEPE says there are 40% more on the lists than a year ago, for example in Madrid. And it turns out they're not going to implement this now. Ladies and gentlemen, they have dropped the speech because they have sought a minimum credence to vote against a measure with which, I am convinced, the vast majority of employees and public employees agree. Finally, what little affection and what ill-treatment you have with the autonomous communities in which you govern. You come here to this rostrum and say there has been no dialogue? Do you know the dialogue that exists in our land, Castile and Lion, with the College of Doctors? Shall I explain it to you? He complains against the vice president himself of the Junta de Castilla y León. Is that the dialogue they have in the territory? Apply it, you've got a chance now. The Government has placed the letters. Ladies and gentlemen, here you have a way to hire doctors outside the Community if necessary and to be able to use the state of alarm. Because the state of alarm has already been used in this country. Now the possibility is put and it turns out that you come and ignore it, because you were looking for the slightest crack to try to position yourself against. So, I'm sorry, really, that they use these kinds of questions. And what am I going to say about Andalusia, ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Socialist Group, support and affection for Andalusians after listening to what we have heard, the barbarity that has been said this morning, of course. [[Applauds]] And two issues that I also heard during the debate and which are powerfully drawing my attention to. I had several headlines, but I am not going to use anything more than one, because it seems striking to me, as far as the use of this kind of professionals has meant not now during the pandemic, during the state of alarm, but before. Holder of 24 January 2019: The Castilian and Leonian Society of Family and Community Medicine requests Sacyl, the Junta de Castilla y León, to cease hiring doctors without MIR. That's your management, ladies and gentlemen, and it's been over a year. Therefore, coming now to give lessons really does not cease to be shocking. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Despite everything, with all the affection, the truth is that the spokesman of the far right simply tells him that he has it very easy. You are able to block the budgets of communities such as Andalusia or Madrid. Do so and tell them that if the formula they have used is not applied, the budgets will not be applied in that community. They've already solved it, because the rest is demagogic. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, you who have such affection, lying in this rostrum is a sin. Yes, it is a sin and the intervener has done so. [[Rumors]] Yes, you have to look at it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u124	Mr. Aceves, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u125	I'm done, Madam President. Why? Because what they've actually said here is that the government has to hire. Are they still in politics, who don't know that it is the autonomous communities who hire them? Do you still not realize who health management is in our country? [[Applauds]] Are we up to that level? To study a little, ladies and gentlemen. I end with an offer. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, stop blaming the far right, which only wants to destroy them and harm the majority of the Spaniards. Do not think like that, come to the consensus, be a party with which we sit and, among all, because it has always been done this way, let us improve the lives of the Spanish with agreements, also in health. The minister has done it, the president himself has done it, and in our parliamentary group we do it. Come to the agreement, let us improve the health of our country with the agreement of the Autonomous Communities.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u126	Mr. Aceves, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u127	Leave the anti-policy because if it's not going to flatter them at all. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u128	Thank you. [[The Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service, Darias San Sebastián, asked for the floor.-A cleaning service worker proceeded to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u129	I just wanted to make a recognition, a thank you and a clarification. Once again a recognition of all the work of public employees, also those of this house, I want to say this publicly for the work and attention they always give us. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the intervention of all the groups, even those who have criticized us, because I understand that criticism is healthy and necessary. And simply to say that this Government will respond to all the requests of the Autonomous Communities, I have them in writing, of each and every one of them, even if they go against certain interests, and the Government assumes the cost, even with the Madrid Community; this Government assumes the cost of the measure we have taken to be on the side of the Autonomous Communities, of each and every one of them in this country. This Government is sensitive to them and will continue to be sensitive even if it has a cost to this Government. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u130	Thank you, Minister. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 30/2020, OF 29 SEPTEMBER, OF SOCIAL MEASURES IN DEFENCE OF EMPLOYMENT. [[File number 130/000031]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u131	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 30/2020 of 29 September of social measures in defence of employment. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Labour and Social Economy has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u132	Good afternoon again. I rise again in this rostrum to request from its lords the validation of Royal Decree-Law 30/2020, which is the result of the III Agreement in defense of employment between social agents and the Government. It is no longer an agreement despite being already the sixth reached by this Ministry of Labour in the framework of social dialogue. The third agreement in defence of employment is the result of many days of joint reflection, of shared perceptions - also of dissensions - and it is above all, as I have pointed out earlier, the emblem of a climate of dialogue and cooperation between the Government and the social actors, which shows us a path contrary to that of the rift and which lies beyond noise and no for the no. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, agreements such as the one that sustains this royal decree-law not only strengthen us as a country, but bring certainty in a difficult and constantly changing context such as that in which the health, social and economic crisis caused by the pandemic has placed us. The third social agreement in defence of employment, which is the basis, soul and subject matter of this royal decree-law that we bring to your consideration today, was reached after many days of joint reflection on a fortunately contrasted evidence that the temporary employment regulation dossiers, the so-called ERTE, have fulfilled their objective in substance and in form. They have stopped the fall in employment, saved many of our small, medium and large businesses, our self-employed and protected the most vulnerable. The fundamental pillar of this rule is once again the internal flexibility measures in companies, which aim to stabilise employment, as well as to prevent the destruction of jobs and the productive capacity of the business fabric in the face of a situation, this time, of the evolution of the health crisis. On the other hand, this agreement seeks to continue the commitment to comprehensive protection of workers affected by the pandemic, both in their working environment and in their lives. Our will is and will always be to leave no one behind, and that objective obliges a constant adaptation of the measures designed, of which this royal decree-law is a clear example. Title I of the Royal Decree-Law 30/2020 of 30 September of Social Measures in Defense of Employment, faithfully reflects the agreement reached within the tripartite commission, the Social Dialogue Bureau that has led, through dialogue and negotiation, the solutions that our country has been in need of over these hard months for our economy and also for citizens. The agreement, first of all, decides on the automatic extension of all the ERTEs that were authorized when the state of alarm was declared, I repeat, of all. In this way, companies will continue to have at their disposal a measure which, although authorized for circumstances other than the current ones, continues to demonstrate its validity. In addition, in order to respond to the new limitations and containment measures necessary in the face of the outbreak of the health crisis in Spain and around the world, Royal Decree-Law 30/2020 has created two new modalities of ERTE: those called ERTE by impediment, which may request those companies whose workplaces, by new measures and decisions taken by Spanish or foreign authorities, cannot develop their activity for the time that such impossibility is maintained, and those called ERTE by limitations, which will be authorized to those companies whose activity is limited in one of their workplaces as a result of the measures that have been implemented by Spanish authorities. Both files are based decisively on very important exemptions in social security contributions. For those companies whose activity is suspended by the health decision - what we have called an impediment ERT - companies with less than 50 workers will be exempt in the next four months and as long as this situation remains 100% of social security contributions. In companies with 50 or more employees, the exemption shall be 90 %. For all those companies that have an activity imitated by health decisions - what we have called restriction ERT - protection is certainly very high. The exemption for companies with less than 50 employees will be 100% in October, 90% in November, 85% in December and 80% in January. In companies with 50 or more workers, the exemption shall be between 70 and 90 % during this period. The text reproduces the scheme of decreasing but high coefficients, which have been maintained during the previous months and which has worked in a very appropriate way in generating incentives for employment activation. The idea is clear: we must continue to provide our productive fabric, after months of shared efforts, with the protection it needs at the present time. And I do not mind reiterating this once again, public investment in the ERTE mechanism is in itself a firm commitment to permanence, a collective effort, a task for all and for all and we will not let them fall. The guarantees and limits which have so far accompanied the ERTs, the limits related to dividend sharing and tax transparency, as well as the commitment to safeguard employment for six months, shall apply to these new dossiers. In the case of undertakings which had assumed the commitment of six months fixed, as you know, by Royal Decree 8/2020, the calculation of the new safeguard period will start once it is completed. Alongside this general regime, the royal decree-law takes care of the situation of the sectors most hit by the crisis. The first additional provision sets out a number of exemptions for those companies belonging to sectors with a high rate of coverage per ERTE and, at the same time, a low rate of recovery of activity. The agreement reached in the tripartite committee objectively established the companies to which we should benefit, considering that they should include those that belong to sectors or activities that, from the beginning of the health crisis to date, have not been able to recover regulated workers in significant percentages and which also belong to sectors that have not overall recovered a normal activity. In addition, companies which certify to the competent labour authority that they belong to the value chain or indirectly depend on the activity carried out by the CNAEs listed in the annex to this Royal Decree will also have access to the recognised exemptions. In this case, companies with fewer than 50 employees will have a constant exemption of 85% of the quotas over the next 4 months and 75% for larger companies. This is a relationship that will extend to both inactive workers and those who have already been activated at this time. In the event that there is a transition from an ERTE by force majeure to an ERTE by economic reasons, the rule allows these percentages to be maintained. In line with this enhanced protection, this Royal Decree-Law establishes a new six-month employment safeguard period for companies accessing these categories, which will add, as for applicants for the new ERTE, to the six-month period already committed under the ERTE that is extended. With regard to all extended and new ERTEs, whether linked or not to exemptions in social security contributions, this text maintains the interruption of the calculation of the maximum duration of temporary contracts, as well as the prohibition of dismissal and the performance of overtime, as well as the limitations on the establishment of new outsourcings of the activity and new direct or indirect contracts. In the chapter on the protection of workers, as in the business section, this royal decree-law is the most ambitious of those adopted so far. The so-called zero counter is maintained, linked to the protection of the most vulnerable and affected by the crisis. This extraordinary protection measure will continue to apply to all persons who are dismissed or whose temporary contract is extinguished during the year 2021. Re-guarantee of the previous deficiency exemption is guaranteed, so that all persons affected by ERTE will receive unemployment benefit even if they do not have the previous contributions that would allow them to do so. The 70 % percentage on the regulatory basis is guaranteed for the purpose of calculating the amount of the benefit, after the 180 days of the benefit, with an urgent and short-term repeal of one of the most harmful sections of the labour reform promoted in 2012 by the People's Party. All workers will retain the income they were receiving, which would have been reduced if this measure had not been adopted, which, as you know, would be 50% of their salary. In addition, an extraordinary new benefit is created for persons with fixed contracts who are discontinuous or who also perform fixed and periodic work for the first time, which are repeated on certain dates, and will be extended until 31 January 2021. The text provides for financial compensation to persons receiving the special unemployment benefit in cases where their amount has been reduced in proportion to the time worked, by one or more part-time employment relationships. Finally, and in line with what the ERTE of the future will be, in response to the development needs of the working people and the increasingly demanding reality of a globalised and digitised market, a first step is being taken in linking our country's labour relations with training that must accompany people during their working and professional lives. In this case, the third additional provision of this Royal Decree sets out measures aimed at the training of persons affected by ERTE, which will be considered a priority group for access to vocational training initiatives for employment and for which specific actions will be planned. Likewise, in the context of our dialogue with self-governing associations and the good understanding that has taken place to address the social and economic consequences of this pandemic, we have agreed to re-adjust and extend specific aspects of their delivery modalities. In Title II of this Royal Decree-Law, extending also until January, the existing benefit is maintained for those self-employed who maintain a turnover of less than 75 % in this fourth quarter. The aim is to prioritise those with lower incomes and thus net returns below 1.75 times the interprofessional minimum wage. Secondly, the seasonal workers benefit is also extended, better adjusting its design to better cover the periods of earnings calculation in the reference period. Finally, two protection needs arising from the dialogue with self-government associations have been met. On the one hand, those self-employed persons who have ceased to work during the period from October to January but who have not fulfilled the above conditions, in particular as regards the minimum inter-branch wage for the ordinary benefit, will also be eligible for a benefit and, in this case, will be 50 % of their regulatory base. On the other hand, those self-employed who, either for having short periods of calculation or for having what is known as a flat rate did not enter the eligible self-employed, will also opt for a similar benefit. We therefore put in place agreed and effective instruments to allow for a transition that will allow for the gradual recovery of entrepreneurship and employment. I should also like to outline some of the elements that complement this rule. Royal Decree-Law 30/2020 incorporates a new battery of measures to improve minimum living income, in this case aimed at enabling new groups to benefit from this benefit. [[The lady]] First, persons over the age of sixty-five who do not receive any benefit, either contributory or non-contributory, are included among the potential beneficiaries of the minimum living income. Secondly, the definition of a single parent family is extended so that more of them can receive the supplement of 22 % to which they are entitled. Thirdly, it makes it easier for people who share their homes with others to apply for a minimum living income because, for example, they have rented a room; a very common remedy that many of the families at risk of exclusion have to resort to. This Royal Decree-Law also provides for the extension until 31 January of the extraordinary measures to protect the rental of housing for tenants in vulnerable situations, an expression of this Government's commitment to the social shield designed during the pandemic. It includes the extension of the period of extraordinary suspension of the eviction procedure in cases of vulnerability of tenants without housing alternatives, favouring the action of social services. In addition, the possibility of applying for a moratorium or partial cancellation of the rental rent is extended where the lessor is a large holder or public entity. It also extends the possibility of extending housing rentals for six months until 31 January 2020 under the same terms and conditions as the current contract. I conclude, not without reminding you of the extraordinary and urgent need required by article 86.1 of the Constitution for the approval by the Government of this royal decree and its additional and final provisions. The circumstances behind this legislation require, from a cyclical and structural point of view, a rapid, urgent and coordinated response within the framework of the social dialogue, as we have done. I'm done. Consolidating the ERTE, as we do with this royal decree-law for which I request its validation today, is to challenge the answer given to the same questions in previous economic crises, and it is to do so for the first time by applying European policies with internal flexibility - emphasis, internal -, with adaptation; a model embodied in our present that expressly ignores the labour legislation of the People's Party and the shortcomings of its social protection for unemployment. We're sorting out that legislation. We're avoiding mass layoffs. We are recovering the horizon of occupation that had denied us with all the tools within our reach, reformulating, as we will do, active employment policies to ensure decent and stable work, especially for women, but especially for the younger people; prioritizing training pathways, as has not been done so far, for people in an ERTE; maintaining 70% of the regulatory base, the accountant at zero, in benefits and the commitment to maintaining employment. Because we are convinced that temporality and precariousness are an anomalous and intolerable response that has prevented us from facing today's problems with more solidity and strength. Prorogation of ERTE is to reject a model of inequality that in this unexpected economic contraction caused by the pandemic has revealed its weak and imperfect seams. To extend the ERTE in a context of dialogue and agreement like the one we have reached is to look around us, stop listening - I invite you to do so - and understand that inequality, precariousness and temporality cannot fit into our labour relations. We are nothing if we are not equal and that reality can never disappear from our perception. As the French philosopher Didier Eribon points out in relation to the time it has taken for us to live, what is at stake are the most concrete realities of individual existences; among them, for example, health and well-being, ladies and gentlemen. There will be no reactivation of the economy and employment without health protection. Whoever forgets this forgets the fundamental teaching of a pandemic that has reminded us of the vital importance of public health and the social shield enabled through measures such as minimum vital income, reinforced by this very royal decree-law. The ERTE model that this legislative text enshrines and expands has saved jobs, saved rights and saved businesses. This Government and this Ministry will, as long as necessary, continue along this path, on the road to the protection of health, the economy and employment; a path that has allowed 80% of those affected by an ERTE, more than two million workers, to have already joined their jobs, recovering each and every one of their rights. We have a Europe that has also placed the protection of people at the centre of its project; we have funding and the backing of international agencies; we have a Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience that will allow us to face as a country the challenges of modernizing the Spanish economy in its areas of digitisation, sustainability, innovation and ecological transition; we have a ceiling of expenditure that will strengthen investment, give solidity to the public and allow for broad and ambitious general budgets, in line with our recovery project, and we have, above all, the firm will not to let down neither the workers nor the companies. The validation of this royal decree-law will bring security and certainty to families, working people and businesses in the transit of these months so decisive for the future of the economy and employment. That is why I ask you to vote in favour of this validation and that we always continue, for the sake of dialogue, on the path of recovery, of the reconstruction of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u133	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón took part in the position-setting round, first of all, in the Euskal Group, Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I'll start with a sense of vote. We are going to vote in favour of this royal decree as we have done with all the previous ones that have had to do with the ERTE. And we do so because we have always said from this rostrum that the public authorities are to guarantee decent living conditions, especially for those who have the most difficulty accessing decent living conditions. That is why we believe that the resources, the enormous resources - often cited here, in this rostrum, the EUR 9 billion per month that costs ERTE - are necessary to keep many people in a social protection net that does not cause them to fall down the path of exclusion. That is where we agree, and that is why we are voting in favour. Also because we see the effort - and we value it positively - to make politics rule over the economy and not the other way around, not that the economy determines what politics has to be. We believe that this is essential to curb, as I say, social exclusion and mass impoverishment. So far we agree - we have told you on more than one occasion and we are telling you again today - and we will always be in favour of measures that will dignify people's living conditions. You pointed out the need to listen to us and to listen, and I agree. When I listen to you and see all the demands and all the requirements and clauses that are placed on the big entrepreneurs, I want to believe that that actually happens, but the reality that I live in tells me that it doesn't happen at all. Perhaps because of the lack of labour inspectors, perhaps because there are many great entrepreneurs who, well advised, are able to dodge all these realities, but the reality that I live is not that reality; the reality that I live is the reality of my neighbours, who have to work the same overtime as before or more, who continue to be unpaid and in exchange for holidays, which also chooses the entrepreneur, which is nothing new in the cainite Spanish labor market. In the reality in which I live, people have had to cling to a concept such as flexibility, which the entrepreneur has imposed on them, but what determines is that they work when they want, where they want and how the entrepreneur wants them, even by rotting them in jobs. And that's happening here, it's happening in October 2020 and it's happening, at least as far as I know, in a very specific area of Vizcaya, which is the left margin, but which is sure to extend to the whole of Euskal Herria and, therefore, probably also from the Spanish State because of the similarities in the labour market. That is the reality that we live in and that is why we support all these decrees, but we see - and have also told you on more than one occasion - an enormous decompensation. We see that you are working a lot, and we value it, but we see that the workers have lost purchasing power because the perception or the amount of what they charge from ERTE is less than what they charged in their jobs and we see that uncertainty and fear of losing their job has not disappeared. And it has not disappeared because the entrepreneur does not give the guarantees or, for me to understand better, the great entrepreneurs do not give the guarantees, because they have contributed quite little to this collective effort. From this rostrum we talk about securing the shoulder and it's okay - in the end we all have to do something - but the big entrepreneurs are guarding their profits from previous years and are getting everything they can from the state to keep their status. That is the reality that, as I say, we live. Its benefits are untouchable and the cost of all this reality to them is coming out for very little, to say nothing. It is not just about particular perceptions because, if not, someone who comes after me could say that they are nothing but that, subjective perceptions and even far from the truth, but that I will talk to you about concrete realities, about data, because surely so anyone who can see this debate will know whether we are lying or not, especially if it is affected by any of the things I will point out. It is also being said - this is a fact that we will see in the coming months - that the number of applications from companies that welcome the ERTE is falling because the new conditions that they are putting on are no longer so interesting to entrepreneurs, to those who talk about the Spanish brand, to those who say that they have to tie their shoulders and that when asked for a more commitment percentage it turns out that they no longer seem so profitable and go to the door of dismissal. Like I said, I'm going to give you some examples. Tubacex is a company that has factories in Laudio and Amurrio. He decreed an ERTE in April 2020 for six months, there are 600 workers, and has announced in the group as a whole - because it has more factories in the Spanish state and in Europe - 500 layoffs out of a total of 2553. Rarely, applying that 20% does not mean that 125 Tubacex workers in Laudio or Amurrio do not go to the street for layoffs. We could talk about Aernnova, who's in Berantevilla. It is a company that made 289 of its 450 workers enter ERTE and has already announced 20 % layoffs on its staff. I could tell you about Gestamp, which has a staff of 230 workers - it has had benefits, for example, of 258 million euros in 2018 or 212 in 2019, although it is true that it has had 120 million losses in the first half of 2020 - and has decided that it will close the factory; 230 workers, all on the street. Alestis, another company in the aeronautical sector, made an ERTE for 146 workers out of a total of 178 who had at their factory in Gasteiz, Vitoria, and has already decided that it will fire 50 % of its workforce, 88 workers. I could tell you about Trenasa, in Castejon, Nafarroa, who made an ERT for the entire staff and has decided that she will fire all, 118 workers. We could talk about another flagship of the Basque economy - I suppose for some also of the Spanish economy - like Iberdrola, which announces profits in the first half of 2020 - already with the effects of the pandemic in force, if it serves the expression - of 1845 million euros and which has already announced also that it will fire 15% of its staff, 1500 people. That's how it came out in all media. I see someone's head is saying no. Talk to the media and tell them they're wrong. We could talk about all the companies that have hosted ERTE to lower their costs, even though they had sluggish profits in previous years, and that are also threatening layoffs or reductions in staffing. For example, that of the great Spanish businessman Amancio Ortega, Zara, who has also announced the closure of I don't know how many shops in the Spanish state, including some Basque shops. We could talk about Indra, Ikea, Decathlon and The English Court. They are just examples of the long list of companies that have hosted ERTE and the long list of large companies - and I always remarry that of large companies - that are coming up with policies that have little to do with what was pointed out. I'm done. When we asked to repeal the labour reform, and when we continue to insist on repealing it, it is not a whim, but because we see that the path of dismissal is taking place very easily and it is travelling very easily for workers, and dismissal is very cheap for employers. That is why we want to repeal labour reform. In short, Minister - I know that I do not have to convince you of this, because I know you - I know that we are in a model struggle, and I believe that the enormous effort the government is making can be left in nothing if we do not fight the real model. Before it was said - I still say it because for this I am a classic - that neither peace between classes nor war between peoples. Now we can talk about confrontation of models, which is more modern and probably less belligerent, but in any case the real enemy is not even those who brawl from this rostrum sometimes to say real barbarities, from my point of view; the objective and our real adversary remain the big oligarchies, the big companies, who want to perpetuate this model that makes the workers cheap and sometimes almost slave labor. You quoted a French philosopher. For today I want to quote an African, who was more than a philosopher a revolutionary, Thomas Sankara. He said that we had to dare to invent the future, because that is what it is also about right now.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u135	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u136	Good afternoon, again, ladies and gentlemen. I do not know whether this is a product of peace, war or confrontation, but rather of the agreement because, as reflected in the explanatory statement of the Royal Decree-Law, it is a product of the III Social Agreement in defence of employment between social actors and the Government, and it was intended to promote measures to cushion some of the socio-economic effects caused by the pandemic and, in particular, to safeguard employment and its quality, and the protection of those deprived of that right. The royal decree-law, to that end, extends a plurality of measures in which, again, I will not extend. I will simply state them because they have already been the subject of a comprehensive development by the Minister: that the existing ERTs will be automatically extended by force majeure; that the ERTs are maintained by preventing the development of the activity - I think they were already created, Minister; you said that they were created, but I believe that they are maintained because they were created by the Royal Decree-Law 24/2020-; a new channel for ERTs by activity limitation is established; all ordinary ERTs linked to COVID will continue to apply to Article 23 of the ETOP causes - economic, technical, organizational and production -; the rules on the prohibition of the sharing of dividends and those linking the exemptions from social security quotas with the maintenance of the employment level; the unemployment protection measures will be extended until 31 January; the benefits for ERT workers will be improved to those who terminate their contracts, not by compulsing the benefits consumed when they accede to a new law before 31 January and until 31 January 2021. That is to say, a plurality of measures which, after all, only enrich the scope of protection which we have already addressed from the beginning of the pandemic and respect for which, with all due respect, we have to say that it is continuous in relation to previous actions, but we must also give a little thought. In our view, as much as it is based on the social dialogue, a mechanism has been used, which is the mechanism of the extension of effects prior to the actual decree-law that use this legislative initiative, which, without prejudice to the innovations it incorporates, we believe also creates some insecurity for all legal operators who are addressed by these measures: companies, workers, advisers, etc. While we do not know how long the effects of the pandemic will continue, what we do know is that they will not be short-term or 31 January. Moreover, nothing prevents, except budgets, of course, from providing for longer deadlines than those provided for in the Royal Decree-Law. For what? As a date of effect of all the measures envisaged. It must be possible, Minister, that, as long as it is not necessary to specify the end of the effects of the pandemic, measures, both in terms of maintaining employment and in terms of supporting those who are unemployed or also in terms of strengthening businesses, must be planned in the longer term, in a medium to long term. It should be added that such a provision would not only provide legal certainty to its recipients, but would allow them to consider business and workable measures to contain the effects of COVID not only from a longer scope, but also from a different perspective. Having said that, we understand that the measures are continuous and have been accepted throughout previous proposals and, in this case, we will again support them. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u137	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, pay attention. It's a bad time, we're tired, but we run the risk of becoming insensitive to dramatic data. These are the forecasts for unemployment in Spain: according to the European Commission, 19 % in 2020 and 17 % in 2021; Bank of Spain, 19 % in 2020 and up to 22 % in 2021; OECD, up to 20 % in 2020 and up to 22 % in 2021. Government forecasts are more optimistic, at 17% in 2020 and 17% also in 2021. And you know what? That seeing this desolating panorama, I cannot be more satisfied with our support, that of our entire Parliamentary Group, the ten citizens' deputies, to the extension of the state of alarm, so that the disassociation of the ERTE to that state of legal exceptionality would be conditioned. Can you imagine what the scenario would be today if Citizens had been as irresponsible as PP, VOX and Republican Left? I don't even want to imagine. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures I have given you not only certify that we are the country that has destroyed the most employment in all advanced economies, but that we will be the country that will later recover. Yesterday, the International Monetary Fund announced that in Spain we will be released from recovery and that it will take nothing less - nothing less - than six years to recover the pre-unemployment levels of this crisis; that is, until 2026 we will not return to an unemployment rate of 14%, not being this unemployment rate as to throw rockets, because it is twice the unemployment rate of the European Union. I ask you again the question: do you imagine that Citizens would have been as irresponsible as you and the ERTE would have fallen by the state of alarm? Let us look again: more than three million workers have been in the ERTE since the start of the state of alarm; of those, 730,000 workers are still concentrated in fewer and fewer sectors, and of those, at least half will have serious difficulties in returning to their activity. These are the data, ladies and gentlemen, you now value who we pay attention to, whether to the data or to the coalition government and its advisers, because the outlook is zero praise. And while the spokesman for the government and other ministers dare - they dare - to see green outbreaks and to say that the worst has already happened, the truth is that the virus is moving forward, the economy stops and businesses and businesses close down. So I again appeal, again and from this rostrum, to the responsibility of each and every one of us here to put sectarianisms aside and to concentrate and focus on the important: to contain, respond to and overcome this pandemic and the social drama that leaves it in its wake. I have already reminded you that it was the citizens' deputies who managed to get the ERTEs to disengage from the state of alarm in exchange for our support for the exceptional situation; it was also we who demanded, negotiated and obtained subsequent extensions, and today with this royal decree-law the ERTEs are extended until 31 January next year. It may, Minister - we know this because we have commented on it - be necessary to extend it, perhaps, for some time, especially in the most affected sectors of our economy such as tourism and hospitality. We will continue to fight for them.And we will also fight for the government not to wait until the last minute or the last day to extend them, adding to the uncertainty and fear of hundreds of thousands of families. In addition, Citizens also negotiated and obtained measures for the self-employed - a collective forgotten by the Government in the early days of this crisis, which left them excluded - which we consider to be and are vital to our economy. We should all be clear that if the autonomous do not survive this crisis there will be no prosperity in Spain. We therefore also welcome the aid that has been put in place for them, which has also been disconnected from the state of alarm and which has subsequently been extended. With all this in mind, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to tell you that we will be voting in favour of the Royal Decree-Law, which, of course, is endorsed, like the previous one, by the social partners. We will vote in favour because it is a good thing that he has responded to the demands of employers and trade unions, of the social partners, to introduce two new forms of ERTE: the ERTE of impediment and the ERTE of elimination. But we will ask you to proceed as a bill because there are certain aspects that cause us reparations, as is the case with certain conditions that you in each extension are committed to maintaining and whose inclusion we are very afraid that it responds to the desire to meet ideologically to yours rather than to pursue a real goal. I therefore urge you to work to correct your excesses during the processing of this decree as a law. I conclude and say to you that today, when I look back and think of the millions of families who have kept their jobs thanks to this negotiation, to this support for the extension of the state of alarm by untying the ERTE from this exceptionality, I know that it was worth the effort and work of the ten citizens' deputies. Ladies and gentlemen of PP, VOX and Squerra Republicana, there are goats that come out very expensive. He remains very happy to vote against a government he doesn't like, but the problem is that that relief is paid by the Spaniards. Look, holding a position with responsibility is often not rewarded in the short term, but in the long term, as we are now seeing. Thinking of millions of families who have kept their jobs thanks to the ERTE far exceeds the taste of giving the red button. Making useful policy makes up for it, and don't forget that that's what they pay us for. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, once the ERTE's road has been started with the stated aim of protecting employment and wages - and it is well known that the BNG was defending a different option that we believe is much fairer for workers, such as banning redundancy and guaranteeing wages with those public resources - it is logical that an extension should now be brought in. It is not only logical, but essential, but we see that it is done without correcting the most unfair aspects of the measure that we have been denouncing since it was put into practice. There are still no guarantees in the maintenance of jobs; all decision-making capacity is given to companies, and a solution for temporary workers who have lost their jobs since 14 March is still not envisaged. This royal decree-law maintains, in this sense, elements of protectionism of the working class and prevents, in our opinion, a social and just exit from the crisis in the labor sphere that can only occur if the labour reforms of unemployment benefits committed in 2010 and 2012 are repealed. The repeal of labour reforms would allow, for example, the negotiation of an ERTE or an ERE which did not depend unilaterally on the company and would require agreement with trade union representation and intervention and control by the labour authority. In order to minimise the impact of ERTEs, it is also necessary to prohibit them from being applied at the same time as wage cuts are made or if collective agreements are applied, apart from ensuring to the entire working class that all regulatory time is considered as unconsumed unemployment time, which is colloquially called counter to zero. Another essential measure that is not envisaged is the need for companies to complete up to 100 per cent of wages or to require the gradual reincorporation of all temporary staff of the company who were dismissed before the end of the ERE. And we continue to insist that the financing of huge public spending cannot fall on the popular classes. Thus, abusive exemptions from business quotas continue to be maintained while Social Security, Fogasa and SEPE funds are diverted. I'm done. Support is also provided for self-employed people who, in our view, are still insufficient. In any case, in line with what we say and with what we have done in previous decrees, we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u141	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u142	Thank you, President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, let me tell you that we are going to vote in favour of this royal decree-law. I also say to you that we are going to ask for parliamentary processing as a bill and I say to you that we have little hope of the usefulness of processing as a bill. It is not necessary to remind him - it is not his responsibility, but of the House - that there are real decrees-laws that were approved in March and that the procedure of presentation has not yet begun, with which we sense that there are improvements to make, but I am also sure that before will arrive the new royal decree-law of extension of the ERTE... [[The Minister of Labour, Díaz Pérez, makes negative gestures]] Yeah, yeah, you're gonna see it, Minister, don't tell me no. I'll remind you of an anecdote. July 15th. Do you know what we were doing on July 15 in this House? We were validating Royal Decree-Law 24/2020, adopted on 26 June, which extended the ERTEs ending on 30 June. From this rostrum, my colleague Genís Boadella said to him: Minister, do you know the legal uncertainty that generates that the ERTEs are extended four days before they end? And he said to him, "Man, next time you're extended - you said you weren't going to extend them - don't do it four days before." And it is true, they have fulfilled, but they have fulfilled in the opposite direction. This time they have extended them a day earlier; a day earlier they were published in the BOE. I know you're going to say it was because the social partners didn't agree. Minister, your job is to agree. Like I've congratulated you before, I'm telling you now. If your mentality today is: I don't care because on January 31 this is not going to be extended, do you know what's going to happen? They will publish the extension of the ERTE on 30 January. And here I leave it, which will be recorded in the Journal of Sessions. Let's get a little more to the point, Minister. We agree with the content. Today I must remind you, too, because we still have calls and emails from people who are with ERTE and who take a long time to collect. Madam Minister, this is a defect that we must remedy, because the people who are in the ERTE have mostly a very complicated personal and family situation. We should therefore make an effort and should make an effort from the Government to speed up the processing of these ERTs. Perhaps for some of us two days, five days, ten days, a month or two months of delay are not much, but for many of the families affected by the ERTE is an immensity and here our obligation is to continue making these complaints. ERTE is obviously necessary; of course, aid to self-employed people is necessary; of course, it is not sufficient. It is not enough that can be strictly established from the workplace or from the social security field. They should be complemented, but we do not see the spirit of complementing these aids from other ministries. We have asked and reiterated that for small and medium-sized enterprises, and especially self-employed ones, the rules should be made more flexible in order to be able to postpone payments to the public finances, to increase the flexibility in terms of the available or necessary guarantees and also to facilitate the payment of tax debts much more than has been done. In any case, Madam Minister, unfortunately, we will have time to continue talking and we will continue to propose measures. Tonight - we do not know whether or not tonight; depends on the situation of the judicial authority - in Catalonia it is intended - or intended - to close bars and restaurants. Behind this closure there are thousands of people affected, thousands of people and families that we cannot leave behind. This is everyone's responsibility and it is a measure that will, in theory, benefit all of us. Therefore, the cost of this measure cannot be passed on to just a few. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u143	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u144	Good afternoon to everyone. There are groups that every time they go out make a preview about Republican Left. It's his fixation. They remind me a little of UPyD and Mr. Toni Cantó, who then passed on to Citizens and some are making points to move on to VOX immediately. Having said that, someone has accused me that it was because I wasn't, but I've been stuck in that seat since nine o'clock. I have been in all the debates in which I was speaking and I went out for 15 minutes in another speech to have a snack. It's not about gallardy, Mr. Guillermo. In Iberian gallarity you always win me and I will not compete against the people of VOX or against you. As for the utility your partner was talking about, I don't know if you'll be very helpful. In Catalonia you have zero mayors having been born there, it seems to me that you have taken out two deputies and you have ten left here. [[Rumors]] Imagine if people think they're useful. But prepare for the change to VOX, which are the only ones who applaud them. More stuff. To Mr Edmundo Bal, who was not here before - so that he does not say that I reply when you are not - I will tell him that we in the Community of Madrid have such great institutional respect that we do not go into the matter of the Madrid Parliament. I know that you do not understand that, because plurinationality and autonomy do not go with you, but now I tell you and I hope you have understood it. On the other hand, when these are issues that affect all workers, that is where we come in, it seems quite clear to me. And then he said another thing: By God, do not compromise with these! He has literally used that expression: for God's sake! And I have answered them - now that you are here - that by God it will not be; in any case, they will be able to choose to make budgets with the right, the far right or the extreme right, or with the left. Do you understand why I can say it to your face now? It's not a matter of gallardy; I just went for a snack for fifteen minutes. Guillermo, I think you are clearly answered. If you want to expand the information, I can give it to you. I don't make personal attacks, I go with data and I go with facts, data and objective facts, very objective. [[applause]] Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our group is also going to facilitate the validation of this royal decree-law for two main reasons which have to do with the desire to be useful to those who are suffering the most from the social and economic crisis resulting from the COVID-19. First of all, we are not going to vote clearly to load the ERTE, it does not lead anywhere. We are a party faithful to the interests of the working class, wherever and speaking the language that speaks - speak the language that speaks - because we are a party faithful to the working class, whether from Seville, Madrid, Paris or anywhere. Others can't say the same thing. This is the actual decree-law number 30 in what we have been in the year - more than twenty are related to the COVID - and many of them will result in bills, papers, amendments and, ultimately, on a long parliamentary path. As bad as it may be, we need to be practical, so we are not going to ask for its processing as a bill. We believe that this royal decree-law is very clear and urgent, bad that weighs us, as I said, and we must allow the people who are in ERTE not to see their situation jeopardize, we must give them confidence and that at least it is not for an act of irresponsibility of Republican Left because we voted against. However, this does not mean that we still endorse their insufficient labour legislation, which we expect very much and which very possibly the pandemic has changed its timetable, which we expected very ambitious in terms of the recovery of workers' rights in the most damaging aspects of labour reform, but we understand that the pandemic timetable also means that it has not been able to go faster. If we have a complaint, and we take advantage of these moments to get it to you because it seems to me welcome, and it is also for all people, live where you live and speak the language you speak. This is the issue of SEPE management. Madam Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you once again - we have already said this a few times in Parliament and many more outside the Chamber - that they have failed to fulfil their promise to guarantee a benefit to parents who could not go to work because they had a child in custody. This is important, because if there are people who can't go by obligation, there has to be an answer, and we're still waiting for it. They are still in time to correct this flagrant non-compliance, but less and less time remains. But, as I said, we still do not accept SEPE's chaotic management. During the first weeks of the state of alarm it could be understood that the complexity and workload were very high and it was possible to exercise empathy with the system's misadjustments, we understood it well. But those misadjustments became real barbarities. We stood in the middle of July already overcoming the state of alarm, which, by the way, did not entail the end of the ERTE, and the errors in the payment had not only not been solved, but they made even worse: non-payment, errors in the procedure, partial payments, unacceptable delays of more than two and three weeks... The days have continued to pass - we have already been seven months - and they are still unable to guarantee to the workers affected by ERTE that they will receive in a minimally timely and adequate way the payment of the benefits to which they are entitled. This does not seem normal to me, it is not acceptable that a state that calls itself social has these mistakes. There are administrations that do not attend visits, as people tell us, do not disconnect their phone and you have to send the requests in writing. And what do citizens who are not charging ERTE and need it to get to the end of the month have to do? I can assure you that there are real dramas between them. What we ask you to do, taking advantage of this opportunity, is to remedy it, because everything has a limit and there are people who can't afford it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u145	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u146	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister, for this royal decree. We welcome it for its urgency and consensus, for the re-editing of consensus. It is the sixth agreement between the Government and the social partners. Formerly were the interprofessional minimum wage; the I, II and III Social Agreement in defence of employment; the distance and teleworking in the public administration; and the agreement for economic revival and employment. We appreciate it because during the confinement, when we went out to applaud the balconies, besides thanking those who held with their body and their work the state of alarm, all those people who did essential jobs, remember what we were talking about? Well, look, minister, I was talking to my neighbor, who works in a cider shop, about her work, which I obviously couldn't go to at the time. What were we talking about with our friends, our family during the video calls? Uncertainty; that has not happened, that is the one that still needs to be answered. This royal decree-law puts in writing what the Ministry of Labour does and what this Government as a whole does, which is to continue to face and respond, in this case by extending the ERTE, covering those who had been left out. And it responds by doing politics, it responds by achieving points of encounter with social actors, because it can, it must be done this way. We defend a way of making democratic and guaranteeing rights. Other forms - and I look directly at the people's bench, which may, even if they don't listen to me, feel alluded to; it's for them to feel alluded to - led us to devastation, authoritarianism, cutbacks, without reaching agreements with either trade unions or employers. We meet with workers' groups, civil society, workers' and business representatives. You guys used to say you'd regulated the telework. What you did from 2012 to 2015 was send over two million workers to your house, but you didn't send them to telework; you sent them with layoffs, you sent them with layoffs because you were dedicated to reducing and facilitating layoffs thanks to your labor reform. So no, they didn't regulate the telework. They are not bound; what they did was impoverish the working class of this country very much. It is a question of governing in a democratic way - we say - by complying with the Constitution, its social articles, the most sensitive, where we have rights and life. Those who call themselves constitutionalists, unite. Do not leave anyone behind; this government has said so and has turned. And also aware of some specific issues, this royal decree-law covers a sector of workers who had not found fit into other previous royal decrees during this pandemic. Techniques and technicians, who work in events and culture, were not included in the artists' regime and could not find a response. This royal decree-law gives effect to State aid without having to be in the CNAE, but by accrediting the status of a dependent company or member of the value chain of a sector with a low rate of activity recovery, as is the case with events and shows. There is a way, of course, for a sector that remains on red alert and a work environment, that of culture, whose problems are endemic, but I am very proud to know that this Government is aware of who makes the events and the possible culture and that they are part of the productive and labor fabric of our society. To those who work at events and shows, I want to tell you... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u147	Quiet. Wait a minute, Your Honor. Mrs. Fernández Castañón.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u148	I want to tell those who work in shows and events that are on the way, but that we are aware of the task and that we continue. Finally, I would like to share a reflection. Citizenship has the feeling that this House is not very efficient. Real decree-laws like this are proof that it is not true, it is proof that the Government works without pause at a very difficult time. I ask your ladies and gentlemen: when do we come to this House? To waste time sovereignly or to work? To block everything, to make the greatest parliamentary filibusterism that can be imagined or to respond to citizens? Because we're not all the same, and those who say so don't really have a problem with politicians; they have a problem with politics. Thick and generalist plotting speeches are dangerous, because if everything is bad, nothing is bad, and then the worst starts, the better. And those who think this royal decree is worthless, what they don't want is political, because so some, very few, are doing very well. I will make another recommendation - as I did in my previous speech in the gallery a few weeks ago - for you to go to the theatre, because culture is safe and, in this case, for you to see the award-winning work Dreams and visions of Rodrigo Rato, directed by Raquel Alcorcón, starring Pablo Remón and Roberto Martín Maiztegui. This work tells of a time when in this country there was a big party for very few, with a disproportionate growth, but then the effects of the hangover, as well as the amount of the party, we had to pay them all. Those who think that the feast of a few is worthwhile for those few and, of course, do not care about the rest of the citizenry, are wrong; they are wrong because inequality is bad for all and all without exception, even for those who are so despicable that they are able, in the middle of a pandemic, to keep thinking only of their own benefit. It turns out that for these people, too, inequality is worse. And I think about it, because I think that fraternity and sorority are still the majority, and I also check it, because one can see how neighboring networks are woven, how people are cared for because that trend is the majority, however hard situations come. And for those who do not practice fraternity or sorority, I trust that at least they do not fall into the stupidity in their most Greco-Roman sense, that of being totally on the sidelines of politics, and understand that fighting inequality, that fighting precariousness and fighting injustice is the best thing for all and for all, for the whole of citizenship. So please vote in favour of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u149	Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would not like to start my speech this afternoon without sending a huge hug to Amaya Martínez, our courageous Member of Parliament in the Basque Country, who today presented her first parliamentary initiative, which was to avoid tributes to others, public tributes to terrorists, to which so many are given. The PNV and the Socialist Party have decided not to intervene when VOX presents initiatives; not when Bildu intervenes, not when VOX intervenes. That is, you are closer to terrorists than to constitutionalists. My congratulations to the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] With regard to the Royal Decree-Law 30/2020, Minister, I am deeply saddened by the self-complacent, self-indulgent tone, I would even say triumphalist of this government, and even yours when I hear you speak of documents such as the Royal Decree-Law that you bring to this House today. You are definitely believing your own propaganda. Prorogation of ERTE is necessary, of course, but it is not a success, it is a failure; it is the stark failure of a government that, more concerned with imposing its dogmatic agenda than for the lives of the Spaniards, once again stumbles on the same stone and places Spain once again at the head of contagion and death in this second wave. It's a misconception to boast of the bandage you're going to put on after you've caused the wound. That they bring to this House today the extension of the ERTE certifies the ineffectiveness of the measures to promote an early recovery. You came to say the recovery would be in V. Of course it is not going to be in V, it is going to be in K: a few will come out reinforced - precisely people close to you - and most will come out seriously deteriorated from this crisis. This indefinitely installs thousands of companies and workers into uncertainty and fattens an invoice that will burden our recovery capacity. If today it is necessary to approve a new ERTE is for one reason only, it is because you, with a genuinely negligent management of the crisis - by the way, the worst management in the world, according to the University of Cambridge - have failed to activate a prompt and solid recovery. And instead of asking the Spanish for forgiveness, you come to brag about social shields and not leaving anyone behind, which is already a real disconnection from reality. Don't you leave anyone behind? Besides the 53,000 dead? In addition to the hundreds of thousands of infected? Don't you leave anyone behind? Do you find that million people who have seen themselves without a job, who have seen their job destroyed? Because we are the country that has destroyed the most jobs in Europe. Do you think there are few more than 100 000 companies that have closed their doors in the past year? Because it's a bigger figure than the United States as a whole. Does it seem to you that the rate of youth unemployment has risen by more than ten points, already at 44 %? Because it is the highest in the world among developed countries. Minister, simple and plain is an affront to many Spaniards telling them that we leave no one behind. What is worse, however, is the absence of an ambitious economic policy that will speed up a rapid and strong recovery. Almost seven months ago, during the debate on the validation of the first royal decree-laws on employment measures, we insisted on the need to keep the productive fabric alive because it is they who create employment. We told them that it was a matter of doing everything possible to ensure that when the time came to restart the activity - which I hope will soon be - there would be neither one company less nor one more stop. That was a first target. And at that time we supported the measures proposed by the Government, but we understood - and we told them so - that they were insufficient measures in addition to slow and late measures. We therefore insist on the need to articulate mechanisms that would provide greater liquidity and guarantee the full employment of those who had been prohibited from working. I remember we said here that it was pointless to remove water from a plant to come and water it once dry; what had to be tried was to prevent the plants from drying out. But, unfortunately, a very important part of our productive fabric has not survived, it has dried up; many companies are in a situation of financial suffocation supported by the increase in the lateness, which is already being warned by the Banco de España; and we already know or, rather, we still do not know how many of those 730,000 workers in ERTE will be able to escape unemployment, but we know that there will not be many. But then there was already a second objective that was urgently to push forward a reform agenda that would make such a recovery possible. And I wonder seven months after that debate, today, after thirty royal decree-laws passed in which we have seen many people left behind: are we more or less prepared for a recovery? Do our public accounts generate more or less credibility? Have public administrations increased or decreased unproductive spending? Do companies bear more or less taxes? Does the labour relations framework have more or less burdens? Have the Spanish seen better or worse education and training systems? In short, is there a single Spaniard who is better than when you came to power two years ago or even better than just eight months ago? Because we haven't met any. Minister, you may still be delighted to have known and act as if the ERTE could extend indefinitely, but the reality is that the sooner the extraordinary measures are delayed, the later the Spanish will turn to you and ask you: what now? In seven months they have carried out a systematic deterioration of the pillars on which a recovery is based, and it is of no use to us now to temper with public intervention the consequences of the crisis if, on the other hand, we do not promote an economic policy that makes possible a strong and frank recovery. When foreign investment collapses it is necessary to underpin our international credibility, to plan in the medium term a process of fiscal consolidation of balance of public accounts, and to generate certainty that it is the only environment in which investment returns; certainty about the health of our public accounts; certainty about the future of Spain; certainty about the ability of this Government to understand who they are that create jobs. But they have avoided any hint of generating a medium-term plan, and while the self-employed, traders, businesses, SMEs, entrepreneurs are studying their future viability without knowing what kind of burdens they will face in the future, and instead the government announces an increasingly voracious agenda of tax increases that we have already denounced here. In the meantime, families are studying where to tighten their belts to deal with the crisis; in the meantime, this Government continues to squander without a brake. Seven months later we continued with the most mastodontic government in history. Not a single announcement, not a single one of eliminating unnecessary political spending; not a single detail, not even one in front of the gallery, with Spaniards making sacrifices in all areas, of trying to at least cosmetically reduce the size of this government. Meanwhile, we play 140 billion euros of European funds linked to our ability to design and implement an ambitious reform programme that is nowhere to come. And in the meantime, this government presents a programme of recovery and resilience with a lot of feminism, with a lot of ecology, but with a total absence of reforms. I'm done. Minister, this government always increases ideological burdens; with those imposed on its last Council of Ministers, for example, they will create a register of equality, and I do not know how this helps businesses, workers, to maintain employment. Minister, we are not going to vote against these measures; they are necessary to give short-term response to thousands of workers and businesses, but we cannot allow them to do anything else because it would simply be suicidal. Many people have already stayed behind, Minister, too much. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u151	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Hoyo Juliá has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u152	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, you have a serious problem with time management and with the order of priorities. He did have time to make an entire campaign in Galicia - by the way, with terrible results for you and with excellent results for the Galicians - he did have time to take a long vacation; he did have time to defend Mr. Iglesias from his judicial problems and he also had time to attack the Community of Madrid; but surprisingly he did not have time either to facilitate job creation or to take incentive measures for productive activity; he did not have time to plan and anticipate an extension of the ERTE that everyone - apparently, except you - knew it was necessary. Madam Minister, more height of sight. The government is extending ERTE by fascicles, as if it were a collectible; but, Minister, this is no joke. UGT has already told you: people do not eat retroactively. I ask you to take a closer look at this and at issues such as your intention to leave out sectors as important to our economy as hospitality and trade, which are so affected by this economic crisis. They intended to leave more than half a million workers in the gutter. You thought that social dialogue was like dialogue with the Members of Podemos in Galicia or dialogue with the experts of the government, that is, with no one, but it is not. They have met with social pressure and pressure from trade unions and employers who, of course, have made a forced correction, and that came self-proclaiming as the party of the people, but what really is the change? You, since you have stepped on the carpet, are only found in three places: in the ministries, you are found in the official cars - those you were thinking of giving up - and you are found lately also and quite in the courts. They're very far from reality, and I'm going to tell you what the reality of people is. There are so many people who have not yet charged the ERTE; many people who have so far taken their savings, but no longer have savings; many people who had no savings and who have had to ask their family and friends for help; and many people who had never been in a queue to give them food and now they are while you create chaos and confusion. Of course its management is totally chaotic: forms that change, insufficient means, we even find that the SEPE and the Labour Inspectorate, both dependent on their ministry, sometimes have different criteria. And to all that chaos - to the months of non-payment, to the errors in the processing and to the collapse in the offices - it is now added that since the entry into force of this royal decree-law all the benefits of the COVID are dropped. A new avalanche of applications by SEPE will therefore have to be processed. What does this mean? It means a new delay that will result in workers covering even later, will result in a new collapse that is already being predicted even by the officials of their ministry. Moreover, a tremendous legal uncertainty is being created, and it is that leaving for the sanctions an issue as important as the extension of the ERTE, of course it has unfortunate consequences not only for those affected but for our entire economy. They have already told you: what are we going to tell foreign investors? That we decided what was going to happen to our workers the day before? What legal certainty are you going to believe that you have Spain, what legal certainty are you going to believe that you have our country? For this reason, my group has been asking you for a long time to have more eyesight, not to be so short-sighted and of course to extend the ERTE until the critical moment of this pandemic passes. Spain needs medium- and long-term measures, Minister, which generate certainty and provide stability so that businesses and workers know what to do and can react accordingly. However, what have you done? Its main stimuli in March were tax deferrals, which are already being paid, the ERTE of our labor reform, which theoretically were so much repugnant, and the ICO credits, for which, by the way, they charge a sum to the banks for providing the endorsement that they pass on to the companies by way of interest. We are in October, and with this royal decree the ERTE are extended until 31 January, but what is going to happen on 1 February? Are you going to decide on the night of January 30th? Start thinking about next February 1st, start thinking about next summer's tourist campaign and finally get to work. The success of this measure is not that you leave every three months as if you were the saver of the jobs, the success of this measure is that no one is left behind and, of course, that not a single job is lost. I have to give you a figure, you have generated 700,000 more unemployed people for the past year, half of whom were women. And speaking of women, you said this week: From today it has come to pass that a man and a woman in our companies can receive different wages. Today we eradicate a legal and democratic aberration. I do not know whether it will be cynicism or ignorance, Minister, but of course wage equality has not been discovered by you; it has been in our legal system for decades. [[Applauds]] I don't know if you're doing this because your social shield has proven to be a toy because, unfortunately, you've stayed and you've still got a lot of people left behind. You see, minister, I don't know if the children will have learned what ERTEs are by their explanation, the truth is that I doubt it very much, but the children do know the Snow White tale. You, who likes to act very much, I will tell you that of course it is not the one that is dedicated to helping others in that story, it is the one that leaves others a rotten apple, an apple poisoned with unfortunate unemployment data. You're the one looking in the mirror every day asking: mirrory, magic mirrory, who's the best minister in the whole blue bank? [[Laughter]] And of course I don't know what you'll answer because the bar on the blue bank is quite low, but what I do assure you is that you are the worst minister of all democracy in the field of work. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u153	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u154	Very good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the truth is that it's good enough for you, because you don't know what you're talking about anymore. It's the ninth time I've heard you say that Law 35/2010, of 2010, when José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero ruled, which sought the existence of the ERTE, is yours. What are you talking about, gentlemen of the People's Party? [[Applauds]] Year 2010. It's just that it's not even a lack of rigour, it's not even that you don't realize what's going on on in the street, that doesn't matter to you; it's that you don't look at things, not even what you do yourself. Some date: April 9 this year, vote of Royal Decree-Law number 9 with improvements in the ERTE; you vote against. 9 April, vote on Royal Decree-Law No. 11 with improvements in the termination benefits for the self-employed; neither do you support it. 9 April, vote of the royal decree to protect workers and not to be fired; the People's Party voted against. It is that, if it were for the People's Party, no company or worker would be welcomed to the ERTE, six million Spanish workers in this country would be on the street with one hand in front and one behind. [[Applauds]] If it were because of their strategy of wear and tear, not of this government, but of the Spaniards, a million and a half self-employed people would not have been able to stop paying the monthly fee and access an extraordinary benefit that had never been made; unprecedented, I say well, because when you could never, ever, help the self-employed in this country. [[Applauds]] By the way, in view of its catastrophic view of the situation, which is difficult and dramatic, 80% of the workers who are receiving ERTE have already returned to their jobs, four out of five. In short, this good news doesn't suit you because you don't like anything. They do not like the choice of internal flexibility measures in order to keep the templates prepared for the exit from the crisis, to give oxygen to the companies and self-employed affected by the COVID. They do not like that, once the seams of the protection system have exploded for the workers we had to inherit from their management, we have put on the table new benefits to protect the permanent discontinuous workers, the temporary workers or the domestic workers. Of course they don't like it. They do not like that all the agents of this country work hard with this government thinking only of giving certainty to the Spaniards who today feel insecure and afraid, of course. Social dialogue is called, the one they don't like; of course they don't like because they don't believe or trust him. All the measures that you have developed in the Government in the field of employment are taken unilaterally, you alone and without anyone in 2012 and now too. In my land, Castile and León, your government has boosted social dialogue, left entrepreneurs and workers at the table, and after five months of great announcements, neither a worker nor an autonomous company has charged a single euro by the Castile and León Board. [[Applauds]] And worst of all, they haven't heard what this is about, they haven't heard what they're asking on the street, they haven't heard that this country is waiting for them, that the Spaniards are waiting for them, that this government is waiting for them, that they can't keep running away from their responsibility and stop responding to the height of the circumstances, that you can't enjoy blowing up everything as you do. Faced with this position and the persistence of the negative effects of COVID on enterprises and employment, today the Socialist Parliamentary Group of course supports this third agreement with new measures; with the extension of the ERTE until 31 January, with the extension for permanent discontinuous workers, with that option not to compute the time in which the benefit is received, where the ERTE of impediment and limitation are created for sectors with difficulties, that we have and have them controlled by this ministry, with percentages of exemption of up to 100 percent, or the extraordinary benefit for seasonal workers. Listening to him, I think I've already discovered what they don't like, because this decree, among other things, does correct their labor reform. I recently told you that this government, led by Pedro Sánchez, is going to act firmly to put that labor reform behind you because it was you alone in 2012, you alone, who decided that the basis of calculation of the people who received a benefit, at the sixth month of collection, would fall from 70% to 50% of the regulatory base, because what do you do? Well, cut off those who need it the most, the workers who want to work but can't do it. Thanks to this Government, today, by this decree, those who need it, who receive a benefit in an ERTE, will maintain purchasing power in front of their decisions. Also in my speech I wanted to highlight this decree because more than collective bargaining, minister, what you are having all in this country, less you, is collective courage, leaving aside the legitimate differences, all yielding and all adding up to win our business fabric, our workers, to protect, but also to generate opportunities as soon as possible, and this is what we socialists are to. We are aware that we must continue to support and help, that we must continue to listen on the street and empathizing to bring about improvements in the conditions of workers with labour legislation. We did that with the creation of the ERTE in 2010 and also with other achievements that in recent days they want to embarrass, even to hammer, as we have seen this morning. To conclude, 100 years ago in this country there was a Minister of Labour who launched maternity insurance for women workers, compulsory accident insurance, eight-hour workday and the right to strike. Today it comes to mind to remind you, at the time when we approved this agreement on social dialogue, because it was this minister who launched in the Labour Contracts Act the regulation of collective agreements and the negotiation by representatives of employers and trade unions. With pride, with great pride, for his work in defense of the workers, despite his noise, his insults and his malcharging of the Spaniards, I remind you that this good minister was named Fr. Francisco Largo Caballero. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u155	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Is that what you're talking about? REAL DECRETO-LEY 31/2020 OF 29 SEPTEMBER, adopting urgent measures in the field of non-universal education. [[File number 130/000032]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u156	We continue with the agenda: Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 31/2020 of 29 September, by which urgent measures are taken in the field of non-university education. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Education and Vocational Training has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u157	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am writing to you to request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 31/2020 of 29 September, by which urgent measures are taken in the field of non-university education. This is a rule that contains a set of measures that have been discussed and discussed in depth with the Autonomous Communities, such as competent administrations in the field of education, during several meetings of the various bodies of the Sectoral Conference on Education, and more specifically that held on 24 September 2020. Measures that undoubtedly come to respond to the concerns that were expressed there. The pandemic has had a special impact on the education system, which, despite the difficulties that have arisen, has adapted to change quickly, decisively and effectively. The Ministry of Education and Vocational Training and the autonomous administrations have supported this effort by the educational community through the adoption of the necessary agreements to enable the continuity of the teaching activity, the adjustment of the programming and the adaptation of the evaluation, promotion and graduation mechanisms. All these measures became binding agreements for the Autonomous Communities, which they adopted at the conferences held on 15 April and 11 June, without at any time changing their competences in the field of education. As a follow-up to this collaborative work, this royal decree supports several issues that enable a better development of the 2020-2021 course in the current pandemic situation. As I said before, the Government thus responds to a number of concerns that the Autonomous Communities have been exposing at successive meetings that have taken place since May to organize the 2020-2021 school year. Education and the safe functioning of educational institutions have become priority social concerns which also deserve priority attention from the public authorities. We must respond to this situation with rigour, measure, responsibility and commitment, for which it is necessary to launch new exceptional and temporary initiatives. To this end, the Royal Decree-Law establishes four blocks of measures that respond to the extraordinary circumstances resulting from the pandemic and will allow the course to develop in a safe and adequate manner, ensuring appropriate attention to the entire student. The first block of measures is aimed at non-university teaching staff with the aim of ensuring adequate and safe development of teaching. In the current situation, the protocols designed by the Government and the educational administrations for the safe return to academic activity force the reinforcement of the staff in an urgent manner; this may in some cases - certainly few but not negligible - mean that not enough suitable candidates are available. It is not acceptable that there are groups of students who do not have teachers, so the Royal Decree allows, on an exceptional and temporary basis and with caution to ensure that students have the best teachers, the recruitment of teachers who meet all the required requirements even if they have not yet completed the specific master's degree. The objective is to ensure the coverage of those places that are necessary to provide adequate care to all students, places that in this specific case will be depreciated at the end of the course in which the reasons for urgent need that gave rise to their creation disappear. Thus, only in the event of the exhaustion of the lists of candidates for temporary employment and, in addition, of applicants for employment who are in possession of the official post-graduate degree attesting to their pedagogical and didactic or equivalent training, educational administrations may, on an exceptional basis, appoint as interim officials those applicants for the requested specialties who do not at that time meet the requirement to be in possession of the official post-graduate or equivalent educational and didactic qualification. We comply with article 100.2 and the ninth additional provision of the Organic Law 2/2006 of 3 May on Education, Royal Decree 1834/2008 of 8 November and Order EDU/2645/2011 of 23 September. In this way, and as repeatedly requested by the Autonomous Communities, they will be able to carry out the reinforcement of the necessary staffing to guarantee the right to education in safety during the course 2020-2021. This provision includes the bodies of secondary school teachers, vocational training technicians, music teachers, performing arts, visual arts and design and official language schools. The Royal Decree also provides that the continuity in the teaching of these aspirants, as well as their eventual subsequent entry into the Public Service, will require that they be in possession of the postgraduate master's degree. The measures in the field of teaching also include the commitment to the continuity of the processes of decreasing the rate of temporary employment in the teaching field, through the call of the places offered within the plan of stabilization of temporary employment, objective that was supported by the educational administrations at the meeting of the Sectoral Conference of Education held on April 15, 2020. To this end, it is ensured that the provisions of the third transitional provision of the Regulation on admission, access and acquisition of new specialties in the teaching bodies referred to in the Organic Law 2/2006 of 3 May of Education, approved by Royal Decree 276/2007 of 23 February, also apply to the selective procedures of admission carried out in execution of the public offers of employment which, under the provisions of the Law 6/2018 of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2018, are approved by the different educational administrations until 2021 to ensure the uniformity and consistency of this stabilization process aimed at the decided decrease of the rates of interinity. The second block introduces measures for the adaptation of curricula and curricula, as well as the adequacy of evaluation, promotion and qualification criteria. The aim of all of them is nothing other than to respond to the different situations generated by the pandemic during the past and current years, allowing students to continue their learning process with the greatest guarantees, giving educational administrations the opportunity to plan their actions in sufficient time, providing security to the different components of the educational community and guaranteeing the quality of academic degrees. Therefore, in order to facilitate the adaptation of didactic programming to the circumstances arising from the past and current courses, it is given the character of guidelines to the evaluable learning standards. In this way, the autonomous communities and the centres themselves will be able to adapt their teaching programmes to the actual situation of their pupils and to the forms of educational activity resulting from the pandemic. Similarly, educational administrations are allowed to adapt the assessment and promotion criteria for all primary, compulsory secondary, baccalaureate and vocational education courses, as well as the criteria for obtaining a degree in compulsory secondary education, baccalaureate and vocational training qualifications, in order to better adapt them to the situation caused by the pandemic. The teaching teams, based on their professional competence, in the exercise of their professionalism, will assess in a collegial, non-isolated way - and this is what is relevant, ladies and gentlemen, for their added value in terms of more guarantee and better criterion - and overall if the objectives of each stage have been achieved and they will make the decisions corresponding to them in that process. Who better than those teaching teams to know the academic evolution of the student and whether he deserves to progress or not? Thus, the titling decision will be taken after ensuring the acquisition of the general objectives of the stage, so that the student can continue his or her academic itinerary. It will therefore be held after acquiring the overall objectives of the stage. Therefore, the claim that it can be held with suspense is simply false. [[Applauds]] In adopting these measures, the majority agreements of the Sectoral Conference of 15 April 2020, which twelve autonomous communities signed and which all, ladies and gentlemen, ended up implementing - with good results, by the way - beyond their initial pronouncement on this matter, are being implemented. It is not, therefore, a novel measure, but a continuation of what was agreed and implemented in the 2019-2020 course that we succeeded in substantiating. So, ladies and gentlemen, what we are pushing is more effort, more effort and not less, more effort of our students and more effort of the whole educational system. The evaluations of the final stage of Primary Education and Compulsory Secondary Education, on the other hand, that from the Royal Decree-Law 5/2016, of 9 December, have lost all academic effect, having exclusively a diagnostic purpose, are suppressed. With regard to the school calendar, school days shall be considered all those on which the student is given care and educational support, either in person or at a distance. The measures contained in this Royal Decree also extend to artistic, sports and official language schools; specifically for the latter, it is envisaged that the criteria for evaluation, promotion and permanence will be changed, as well as that the common basic principles for evaluation applicable to the official certification tests of intermediate levels B1, intermediate levels B2, advanced levels C1 and advanced levels C2 of special regime language teachings will be brought into line with the exceptional circumstances arising from the pandemic. The third block specifies that even non-university private centres, which may encounter difficulties similar to those of public centres when completing their staff, can do so, exceptionally and only during the duration of the pandemic caused by COVID-19, with persons who meet all the requirements, except for pedagogical and didactic training provided for in Article 100.2 of Organic Law 2/2006 of 3 May, Education or equivalent. Finally, the fourth block sets out measures to organize and organize education in the field of vocational training in the education system, which will apply in cases where its development is impossible in accordance with the basic rules of the State. Having recognized and underlined the importance of practice in student enterprises and its irreplaceable nature, the current circumstances could make the development of such practices in certain sectors and in certain territories unworkable. It is therefore appropriate to allow from the basic regulations a flexibility that only in those essential cases allows students to complete their studies. In this way, the exceptional reduction of the training module in workplaces may be authorised, in any case respecting the minimum hours laid down in the Royal Decrees establishing each title and its minimum teaching. In addition, the competent educational authorities may, where there is no viable alternative, replace the stay in their own enterprises of training in workplaces with a proposal for activities associated with the working environment. In the case of higher vocational training, this training module in work centres can be integrated into the project module, and in the case of basic and intermediate vocational training, a project module can be created to integrate it with training in work centres. It will be possible, ladies and gentlemen. This measure is also extended to artistic and sports educations, with appropriate adaptations to their respective characteristics. Apart from the teaching of the education system and with regard to the certificates of professionalism of the Vocational Training for Employment, regulated by Royal Decree 34/2008 of 18 January, exceptional measures are also laid down during the 2020-2021 school year for the realization of the module of practical training in workplaces where it is not possible to carry out effectively in a business area with a similar criterion to that used in the vocational training of the education system. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the principle of necessity has been fully justified. Unesco has been warning us for months about the dramatic effects of the pandemic on education. Teacher, management teams, families, students, all have been able to adapt quickly to a radical change in the way of education. We have met the goal of reopening schools, but for the duration of the health emergency we must ensure a consistent normative basis for the course to continue to develop in the best way, guaranteeing learning and, above all, preventing someone from staying behind. For all that, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for your support to validate this rule, as it is essential to support the measures required for the proper development of the school year, with adequate and proportionate answers to what the health situation is demanding; because it facilitates the actions that the autonomous communities are necessarily having to carry out to complete their teaching staff; because it establishes academic measures to enable learning to be carried out effectively, and because it contributes to the coordination of all educational administrations. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, this is a set of necessary measures, measured and elaborated with the participation and contributions of the Autonomous Communities, which therefore have a high degree of consensus. I hope that today we will be able to reach a broad agreement on this royal decreeley so that the educational administrations and the whole educational community can have the necessary tools to be able to continue working on the functioning of the Spanish educational system. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that this can be the case and we can continue to work towards improving our education. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u158	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Clavell López.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, very good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing the appreciation of the People's Party for the commendable work and commitment of the faculty and educational institutions that continue to work to care for students. [[Applauds]] Education, without a doubt, is the key to the future for a generation that I hope will be able to say that it has overcome this crisis and that the measures of the Government have not truncated its future. To this end, the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training must lead the education policy and form an essential part of the Government's political agenda. But since the start of the COVID19 pandemic, the Spanish government has been tumbling from one side to the other, offering Spanish contradictions one day and another also, the result of the improvisations. And the Ministry of Education could not be less. We have a very high number of very worrying doubts, not only to ourselves, but also to society as a whole and to the whole educational community. But maybe it's not so much the improvisation they want to give to the rest of the Spaniards. That lack of forecast they want to sell is the cover for the imposition of their educational model, even without having yet passed the new education law. This royal decreeley, minister, aggravates what happened during the third quarter of last year. Each community will do whatever it wants, breaking the equality between students and the principle of equity. The royal decreeley - which has not been consensual with the autonomous communities, as you say, because they were not made known the text at the last sectoral conference on September 24 - did not even agree with the unions, which denounced it publicly. The ministry leaves office and takes the opportunity to lower the level, thus advancing its education law. Mrs Celaá, CSIF is asking you to resign. ANPE calls for Congress to repeal the most controversial articles, which are the majority. These accuse him of lack of leadership. The USIE Education Inspectors literally tell you: everything has been organized not late, not very late, but extremely late. They continue to say: disappointing the lack of realism and commitment to education and the lack of leadership of the Ministry of Education. And the inspectors also follow: education in Spain is not considered a matter of State. But Concapa has a lack of coordination and leadership in decision-making and in the development of protocols valid throughout the national territory. The Ombudsman - I told him in his day, that we do not have to suspect his ideological past - demands common guidelines. Alejandro Tiana, his secretary of state, number two of the ministry, acknowledged in El Mundo on 25 August that we should perhaps coordinate things more closely so that everything would be more similar; I repeat, your number two, Mrs Celaá. But its lack of leadership has also been reflected in the OECD's Education 2020 Panorama report, which shows us that we are also the world leader in anti-vidic measures in education. This situation is not from before yesterday, Minister, we have been since March, we have been seven months and you have always been caught with your hands in your pockets and looking towards infinity. This government has become the antithesis of effort, work and constancy and intends to implement this will in our young people, who are the future of Spain. You are not interested in students, teachers, or families, you are interested in imposing an ideological and sectarian educational law. They do not conform to the control of the organs of the State, such as the Office of the Attorney General, the Attorney General, the General Council of the Judiciary, the CIS, the CNI or the Spanish Radio-television; they do not conform to the desire to change the constitutional regime of 1978, but rather they want to create a social mass comfortable for the interests of the Government, docile, acritic, that does not value or analyze and that allows them to do so, and education or, rather, a poor education is the best tool to achieve it. What a better example of what I am saying is that what is going to happen today, today, this very afternoon, at the end of the plenary session, in the Education Committee of this House, of this House: the government parties and their partners will vote against; they will vote that platforms, associations, trade unions, collectives linked to education cannot give us their views and reflections on the law of education dealt with in full alarm and that, by the way, it has not passed the Council of State. They're going to refuse to appear simply because they don't hear what they don't like, what they don't care about, as a sign of absolute opacity. Where is the transparency, Minister, where is it? They have the educational community against; students, teachers, inspectors, directors, parents, trade unions, deans of education have already shown their opinion and disagreement with the actions of this Government. How far are you going to go, Minister? What is your limit in the devaluation of Spanish education? On the basis of which authorities or committees of non-existent experts, ghosts, will you decide the end of the exceptional and temporary measures contained in this royal decree-law? Do you intend to follow the path of your partner, the Minister of Health? Are you going to do whatever you think is authoritarian, just because I'm worth it? Look, minister, you said in May: if there is no vaccine, only half of the students will be able to go back to school in September. But fortunately we have a president of the government who fell from the sky and on June 10 announced that we had defeated the virus. A few days after this statement by the President of the Government, you, in your line of arms down and leaving office, said: let us manage as we can. What a statement with so much technical silence. On July 4, the same president continued to insist: We have doubled the curve, we have kept the virus at bay; today we have the pandemic under control. Perfect excuse for going on vacation and disappearing, as the number of contagions increased dizzyingly during the summer. On August 25, his colleague and superior, the incoherent Pablo Iglesias, accused him of lack of leadership - by the way, I share it -. And first of all, you discover gunpowder, penicillin and America in a second and propose the brilliant solution for parents to take their children to school by bicycle. We're all saved, Minister. With this royal decree-law what you intend to do is, first, to suppress the final stage evaluations, an effective instrument to take the necessary corrective measures in an extraordinary course like this, and you already state that from this course and with indefinite validity, regardless of the pandemic, will not be carried out. It's just that you're already teaching your letters, Minister. Secondly, reducing the number of practical hours of vocational training in the workplace. Third, set the evaluable learning standards as guidelines, i.e. each will assess as it sees fit. Fourth, titles a la carte, according to each autonomous community. According to this document, the promotion criteria may be modified, but based on what? And the repetition, even if it is deserved, will remain as something of a museum, as something of the past. We return to the approved general; coffee for everyone, minister. You want to level the level, but from the bottom. Try to match it from above, Minister; there would be a great Minister of Education, but you do the opposite. Have you considered what it means to announce the general approval at the beginning of the course? Teachers can already strive within the classroom to fight against the negative attitude that can be provoked by students. Do you remember keeping and keeping the Constitution you promised before the head of state? Then fill it out and store and store Article 149 of our Magna Carta. Its measures do not lay down common criteria, irrespective of the place where pupils reside, which guarantee equality between Spaniards in the right to education, not even with regard to qualifications. The Education Inspectors say that administrative, academic and educational inequality is promoted, as well as that the education system is broken; a fact that we have already seen with their ministerial orders in full confinement, which made it possible for eleven autonomous communities to present themselves to selectivity with suspended subjects. Do you think it is fair and equitable that 53% of students in compulsory secondary education should pass the course with different criteria and 36 of those in baccalaureate? Do you think we're vertebrating this country down that road? This is a clear demonstration of the punishment of work and effort What will this imply in access to university and at the level of university studies? Fifth, teachers without a master's degree, against trade unions and experts, such as the Conference of Deans of Education, who describe it as a direct assault on the teaching profession and an injustice for those who are attending this training. The CRUE, i.e. the university directors, considers that no initiative involving a decline in the quality of education should be implemented. The teacher believes that the decision discredits the training and the teaching profession. Workers' Commissions assures us that we are faced with a lack of social recognition and attractive teacher training. ANPE indicates that this measure could mean a significant setback in the learning process of our students. CSIF says it will cause a deterioration in the quality of education. The Universidad Complutense de Madrid recognizes that it devalues the training that different universities offer to prepare teachers and the Universitat Oberta de Catalunya states that the quality of educational care will be affected. I'm done, Madam President. Minister, would you enter an O.R. to be intervened by someone who has not completed your training? Why, then, do you intend to discredit the teaching profession in this way? As a teacher, the least I ask you to do is to respect this profession, which is a vocation. And I tell you more, Minister, sometimes we strive to make history, but the important thing is not to make history, but the reason why it happens to history, and you will pass to history, Minister, because you are the destroyer of Spanish education. Finally, Mrs Celaá, you are worthy to visit the corner of thought. Thank you very much. [[Laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Sayas López has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions. [[Pause.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I recognize, Minister, that there are days I think I do not know whether you have come to improve education or directly to finish destroying it, because it is impossible to commit more misdemeanours in less time. We started with the start of the course, completely disorganized, without criteria, bringing together the autonomous communities when there were only two weeks left for the start; it had families, professionals, teachers and educational institutions at stake. In addition, if this were not enough, it will then bring us to this House an absolutely sectarian educational law, which is an attack on freedom of education and which also wants to pass by roller, because it will not leave us or listen to the education sector in this House. I don't know how fast they are. Certainly, making an education law with consensus suits you very well for the slogan, but the reality is that you trample on any initiative so that we can listen to no one in this House. And in case there is little of this, it now brings us the decree of the approved general, which is nothing but a kick to the culture of effort, that the only thing that can claim is to devalue titles and impoverish education. I will indeed recognize the value, Minister, of your ability to reach agreements, to bring the whole education sector into line with your policies, because today trade unions, teachers, students and families are against your policies; it is that there is no one who understands what you are doing in the field of education. The decree we have here this afternoon is absolutely contrary to what Spain needs. It is that Spain has a very high rate of school failure, and instead of working on the quality of education, what we do is we impoverish it. This can only be understood from the point of view of someone who has been unable to prepare the educational system to start the course with quality in September, who has missed every month he has had since the pandemic began and who, as he has no solution to offer, thinks nothing but devalue the titles. Minister, when the pandemic occurred everyone understood that the past course was an extremely special course, but what no one can understand is that they have not taken the time to prepare for this course. That is what is absolutely incomprehensible. Secondly, this decree that brings us is a free bar. It can be summarized that each community does whatever it wants. But if every community does what it wants, why do we need a minister like you? Because, in the end, if each community is the one that will value the titles, the one that will decide how to pass the course, then why do we need the unifying criterion of the Ministry of Education? The problem is that the validity of these titles is equal throughout Spain and, since the validity of the titles is equal, we attack equal opportunities, because not all students, depending on the territory of our country in which they live, will compete with the same characteristics and yet the validity of the title will be the same. On the other hand, it is clear that this is an attack on educational quality, Minister. I think we are talking a lot now, when we talk about European funds, about the need for digital transition, about ecological transition. I fully agree with these needs, but I believe that this country, if it really wants to gain in competitiveness, has a task to give, which is the quality of education. And I think we're doing exactly the opposite, because we're turning education into something more mediocre instead of trying to make it more and more excellent. Indeed, I believe that the data from Spain indicate that the road has to be the opposite; that we have to foster the culture of effort, not the culture of general approval. Therefore, our group can no longer be against this decree and, of course, we will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u162	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u163	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Good afternoon, minister. I am speaking on this point, on behalf of the Basque Group, in the debate on Royal Decree-Law 31/2020, on urgent measures in the field of non-university education for validation. From our parliamentary group we have made an analysis, a reflection, to set our position from a double perspective: from the bottom up and from the form. As for the merits, you minister has given full account and every luxury of details of what is the content of the royal decree-law. It presents an eminently temporary measure since it is linked to the completion of that academic year in which it is determined the completion of the pandemic generated by the COVID19, which we hope is the same course - I hope so!-, except two of the precepts that have a temporary character, the one contained in article 3, in relation to the stabilization of temporary employment, and the one contained in article 7, in relation to the abolition of the end-of-stage evaluations provided for in the LOE, in the Organic Law on Education. The measures of a temporary nature are mainly articulated in three blocks. The first of these, those affecting the teaching public service, eliminates training or specific requirements for the teacher who is appointed interim official for teaching care derived from the pandemic. The second, those of a substantive educational nature: curriculum adaptation; evaluations; achievement of the ESO, Bachelor's degree; school calendar; a series of measures that you have outlined. Thirdly, the measures on vocational training for employment that would be placed on horseback between the subject of education and the subject of work, as a matter of great concern to us, is the difficulty that the student of vocational training has had in the hardest moments of the health crisis in order to be able to carry out these practices in the dual vocational training system, for example. In none of the blocs did we warn of any over-limitation in the exercise of the basic powers of the State. We understand that they can be tools or instruments that can be used in critical situations to speed up management, and it will in some way also depend on what use and how they can be applied by educational administrations and managers in each case. Having said that, we're in shape. You, who are a skilled Member of Parliament, who has an office in Parliament, articulates your speeches very well and dominates the intonation, the rhythm, the tone and the emphasis you must put on everything. In his speech, he has repeatedly placed special emphasis on saying, as far as the drafting procedure is concerned, that they have been particularly sensitive or that they have listened to and worked collaboratively with the Autonomous Communities. In my opinion - perhaps I am confused - you were aware that that aspect, that of form, the aspect of how this royal decree-law was made, could be subject to political criticism by the parliamentary groups that we were going to intervene here. If indeed in all that you have raised you have worked continuously and conscientiously with the autonomous communities, we would have nothing to say, but it gives us the feeling that it has not been so and, according to the information we have, there are autonomous communities - in our case too - that, although you say that on 24 September at the sectoral conference in particular this issue was worked out and that you have taken into account many of the assessments made to you, you have the feeling that you are informed of some issues that would have to be worked more conscientiously. Our doubt is whether we are interpreting the concept of co-governance in the same way: what do you understand by co-governance and what do we, in the case of Euskadi, understand by co-governance. This same afternoon another royal decree-law, 29/2020, which included health measures, was presented for validation, and also the minister of the area, Mrs.Darias, placed a lot of emphasis - and, in fact, came with documentation that could be credited - on which she had worked with the autonomous communities. He said that there was a meeting on 28 September when on 29 September the Council of Ministers adopted that royal legislative decree. You mentioned a meeting on 24 September when it was adopted in the Council of Ministers on 29 September: it is a very short period of time. I believe that we are all aware that we are in a very special situation, in which the whole system is very tense, where there is a lot of tension, and it is very important to work trust, to work collaboration, to eliminate chryspation, and for that reason we must make that no susceptibility arises, that no sensitivities are taken in order to be able to work truly collaboratively and to strengthen co-governance. If that has been done, perfect, continue there; if that has not been done, serve our intervention as a political sanction, in the sense of political criticism, for not working in that way, because we know that in the pandemic more than ever time is gold, but relationships and trust as well, and that is the only way to work together. Our vote will be in favour of validation and we will vote against it being treated as a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u164	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u165	President, ladies and gentlemen, the government is bringing here today a real decree-law to take urgent action in the field of non-university education. With which it is falling, the second wave of the pandemic, eight months after having closed the schools and in full processing of an educational law that have imposed on us, the PSOE and Podemos ask us today to endorse that the urgent thing of the education system at this time is to lower the level of everything and generate more inequalities, as if there were no more few inequalities and as if these inequalities were no longer sources of enormous problems. Today, we are told that the urgency is to allow for promotion with different numbers of suspensions and for recruitment of staff with different a la carte training. Well, look, from my parliamentary group, it's going to be no, because in one thing you're right, there's one thing you're right about... [[Rumors]] Don't get nervous. And it is that this decree does indeed propose urgent measures, but urgent for you, not urgent for children or urgent for teachers. They are urgent because you have not done the duties, you have not done them, and you need for the reconstruction funds to raise a number of issues that you have not carried out. Look, this proposal is the crab's proposal, backwards, because instead of alleviating the structural problems that the OECD has pointed out to us, which have to do with the lack of trained teaching staff, with the lack of teachers with a master's degree, which has to do with a technological deficit and a deficit in infrastructure that affects school performance, instead of solving these problems, you are going the easy way. You do not want to understand it, you do not want to understand that the Spanish educational system needs a profound and serious reform, it needs an agreed reform and that the solution is not to mess with a funnel a law that can honestly not be more coddling or more sectarian and, moreover, now to bring us a decree to lower the level of demand for students and teachers. There are a lot of reasons why we are going to vote no, but I'm going to stick to three and I'm going to mention them to you. First of all, this decree - some of the spokespersons have already said this - is being backed up by the roller procedure, which is the one that this Government has been fond of lately. Secondly, this decree, in fact, is a badly done decree, it is a chapuza decree that poses great legal shortcomings. And thirdly, it's a rule made, as I told you, to cheat. I'll start with the roller procedure. We have already seen that you do not want to talk to anyone, you have not had an apex of shame in processing your law during the state of the pandemic, but it is that moreover this afternoon will be confirmed the infamy that - which is well known - will be vetoed for the first time in history to the educational community in the processing of a bill. Everything very democratic, everything very democratic, and those who present it go in the same direction. You have shielded yourselves in the urgency no longer to not talk to the school council, no longer to not talk to some councillors and agree to it, but you have not spoken to the affected, you have not spoken to the sectoral conference and you have not spoken to the trade unions. You, who are the government of: I do not have the authority to bring back the classrooms after the pandemic, you do have the authority to process sectarian norms and without talking to the educational community. Well, look, this is not authority, this is authoritarianism with procedures of dubious democratic quality; and I don't say it to you, some counselors say it and some unions say it, who have already mentioned it to you. CSIF has requested his resignation for concealing the measures envisaged in this royal decree-law. ANPE has asked all parliamentary forces to vote that not because this decree generates inequality and other unions have labeled it inadmissible, but this gives you the same, the educational community gives you the same, total. But it is that the procedure, in addition to being roller-shaped, is wrong, but it is what is carried now; we already know that the stuffy decrees is what is carried now, as the alarm decree, with which it was necessary to make a philological analysis in order to interpret it or as with the Lomloe, with the technique of inlaid. And you come back with this regulation to generate deep uncertainty, and that's not what I'm telling you either, it's nothing personal, it's what STEPV tells you. I read: the only thing that generates this royal decree-law is a great regulatory confusion and enormous legal uncertainty. I could admit that, as a result of the pandemic, the criteria relating to evaluation, promotion and titling could be relaxed, I could admit some of the issues, but what I cannot admit is that a tremendously controversial measure is once again left in the hands of the autonomous communities and collegiate bodies when the competencies and responsibility you have in the ministry. Thirdly, the issue is cheating. You've been very nervous for a week and the nerves aren't good. I know that in the country's recommendations Europe has pulled our ears and told us that we have to reduce early school leaving and that we have to reduce school failure and repetition, but he has also told us something else, he has told us that we have to improve the skills of our students and that we have to reduce inequalities between communities. And you in haste have come up with nothing other than, instead of proposing quality reform, eliminating, for example, end-of-stage evaluations and diagnostic evaluations, which are essential at times like these to know how we need to intervene. That's cheating on Europe, and look what they've already caught this week with the theme of the General Council of the Judiciary. Especially serious, I insist, it seems to me that they eliminate evaluations, it seems to me the most serious of all, because we need diagnoses in order to be able to intervene. We are tired of waiting for the miracle of democratic wisdom in you in educational matters. That is why I am announcing that we will encourage all concerned groups to submit to the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament and to all possible Community institutions the requirement that we also investigate what is happening in this country, what the Government of this country is doing with education. They already have an accepted request in the European Parliament in Concapa, it has been admitted, and I am sorry that it is not going to be the only one. In the face of their roller procedures, we want democratic procedures. Spain is a serious democracy and children deserve it. Faced with improvisation, the Spaniards deserve calm and scrupulous respect for the rule of law, and finally, face the traps we want efficiency and seriousness. You think Europe is silly and Europe is not silly. I ended up quoting a reflection that is not mine, but of a union that is already studying to challenge this royal decree-law that is approved today. This rule culminates in a management marked by the minister's inability to manage, her ignorance of collective bargaining and the constant alarm she sows with her statements, spreading concern among the whole educational community and society. Well, that's it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martín Llaguno. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u167	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, thank you. I wanted to start this intervention on the anniversary of the shooting of President Companies having a memory for a president who was shot, which should be a shame not only for Catalans, but for any Democrat in this country. Minister, I say to you that we are going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree, as well as against its processing as a bill. In Catalonia we have only one closed centre and about 2% of the confined groups, which is good news, since there was a risk that this would not be the case, but we can celebrate, so to speak, that there is only one closed centre and 2% of the confined groups. This is mainly thanks to the work of teachers, families and students, who respect, who know the rules and who give themselves in order to make the proper functioning of the schools and the educational system a reality. This royal decree, as we understand it, comes to make things easy for students, teachers and families, to the education system in general. It does not come to reflect on the educational model, as was proposed here today, since we have it in other spaces that are for that, such as the reform of the Education Law. Would we have liked this royal decree to have arrived a few weeks ago? Obviously. Does this royal decree draw the model we defend for an educational system in this country? No, not at all. Does it respond to a specific and specific need in an emergency situation? Yeah. That is why we are voting in favour. In the abbreviated memory of this royal decree - when I read it, minister, I thought you had been too explicit - in the section alternative proposals put textually: none; we do not contemplate the possibility of doing nothing other than this. I thought: man, some possibility there will be, some alternative there will be. But the truth is that, listening to the groups who have intervened and who have positioned themselves against this royal decree, one realizes that it is equally true that there was no alternative. Because we have basically heard two things: firstly, criticism; criticism of the actual decree because it seems bad to them and, secondly, as it could not be lacking, a dose of attacking the autonomous communities and the competences that are transferred in this country. With this, I could only reconfirm the meaning of my vote in favour of this royal decree, minister. As I say to you, this is not an educational model approach for us, we do not want to have this debate here today, but it is a concrete, almost surgical solution to a problem to which, it is true, we are late to find a solution, but which needs a quick and efficient solution, and we believe that it can respond. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u168	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u169	Thank you, President. Minister, good afternoon. In Catalonia the return to school in the middle of the pandemic has been successful and right now the protocols allow for a reasonable normal functioning that is key to facing with the greatest guarantees this second wave that we face. Today, school is an essential pillar in the fight against the pandemic and acts, more than ever before, as a public service and community reference for supporting families and socializing children and young people. Thanks to the sacrifice of the teaching professionals and the whole educational community, we have faced and continue to face a situation of very high complexity with the best guarantees. We recognize the work and efforts of all, but we cannot remain alone with recognition. It is therefore necessary to implement measures to continue in this line. In Catalonia, 85% of schools have no confined groups. The forecast is to continue like this, and the most important thing is that we do not go to worse. We cannot lower our guard because, even if we comply with preventive measures, we know that even if our daughters and children are young, that does not mean that they are immune. The institutions must be up to date at a time like the present, and today it is up to us once again to remember that not all that has been done in the area of coverage of families with dependent daughters has been done, and we continue to demand permission for parental care with confined children. Today we will support this royal decree because we have nothing but flexibility and the ability to adapt to the situation in which we are condemned to live. Above all, we support it because it makes clear that it is the educational administrations that will decide the procedures. Programming will be of an orientation nature according to the centres, and it will also be the educational administrations, as it could not otherwise be, which will adapt the criteria for evaluation and promotion of primary and secondary education. The autonomy of educational institutions is enhanced, and I am glad that the final stage evaluations are abolished, it is a measure of justice; as is also the revision of the school calendar or the adaptation of the criteria in degrees. In short, health must be ahead of any other political decision; the priority at the moment is to limit the contagion of COVID, striving not to reduce the quality of education. Hence, ratios have been reduced by strengthening templates. In Catalonia, the topic of extraordinary and temporary recruitment without the postgraduate of pedagogical training is already being carried out since the 2018-2019 course. And as far as the extraordinary measures of vocational training are concerned, a resolution is about to be published which is in line with the actual decree that we are considering today, and we believe it will be just next week. But the important reflection, the idea of background for us, for the Republican Left of Catalonia is another. This coverage should be extended to all situations that exceptionally require it far beyond the pandemic, because the right to education and to have the necessary teaching staff should always be the priority, and all these measures cannot be feasible without the necessary funds to be carried out. Let it be the pandemic - and I am speaking mainly to the right-wing groups - that teaches them the need to give autonomy to the autonomous communities and, by extension, also to the centres, knowing that we have full competence in educational matters, is indeed a shame. In the same way that you should not impose minimum teachings on us; each autonomous community knows its reality. Do you know the neighborhood of Font de la Pólvora de Girona? In this neighborhood live the families with the lowest income in the city, suffer light cuts, some spend the night with anorak placed, and even the most applied boys or girls do the duties in the light of a candle. Why am I telling you this? Do you think that you learn as a girl or a child from the Font de la Pólvora neighborhood as a child living in Sarrià or Pedralbes in Barcelona or students studying in rural centers? But don't you see that diversity is of such magnitude that you can't decide from Madrid what realities you don't know from a distance? And we don't talk about nationalisms, gentlemen, ladies, we don't talk about nationalism, we just talk about, and very important, common sense. A good pedagogy is also based on common sense and decisions must be made from the knowledge of reality, and this is not done from Madrid. I end by asking that we take advantage of the pandemic situation to deal with the structural problems of education. Therefore, educational policies are a priority, but let us not forget the important role of conciliation, and that education cannot be detached from the reality that most families live with economic, work and conciliation times rather than difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u170	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u171	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. Today, when we talk about education again, I think it is imperative to start with a reflection: If anything has made this pandemic clear, it is that in Spain there are institutions on both sides and others that belong to everyone. The cry of living public health and education is today a social consensus while that proclamation of living the king seems more like an outrage of ultratumba, as we have heard recently. So the monarchy divides, education protects and public health saves. Those are the lessons we've learned from this pandemic. [[Applauds]] Look, when I was preparing for this speech today, ladies and gentlemen, I have fallen to account, Minister, that we have talked more about education and the need to improve our education system in these months of pandemic than in the four years that I have been a Member of this Congress. And the question would be: Why? Why have we allowed the heart of our society, which is always education, to reach the limit? Why has teacher, student and educational institutions been being abused for years with cuts if when they are badly given it is the institution that we all resort to? As a teacher, and now as a public representative, I sincerely believe that the problem has been the inability to address the educational debate beyond the partisan struggle and ideological prejudices. Look, you know, I've come up to this rostrum many times and most of it has been to defend the professorship, especially the Catalan, from the chrispation of the PP and Citizens. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, speaking of chrispar, do you remember this sign? [[Shows a poster: The Spanish Subsidized Live on the Coast of Productive Catalonia]] It was a xenophobic campaign in which Convergence spoke of the peoples of the south as subsidized Spain. They will remember because it was precisely his spokesman, Mrs Arrimadas, who denounced him in the Parliament of Catalonia. Yesterday it was Mrs Ayuso who said exactly the same thing and with the same words and you, who are the partners of that government, are still silent today. [[Applauds]] I do not know whether Mrs Arrimadas is also going to condemn Mrs Ayuso's statements and is going to break up with that government in the wake of the Madrid Community. Do it, gentlemen of Citizens, or you will be complicit today in the xenophobia that you denounced in your day. Because it is this rift that has caused that, while here we were discussing the agenda of the right, the imaginary agenda of the right, education for what had to come to us was not being shielded, although perhaps this was your real strategy, because yesterday's silences are today's haste and the cuts that did not turn back then are counted in our days not only on fewer opportunities, but probably also, unfortunately, on hundreds of contagions. Yesterday I listened to Mr Espinosa de los Monteros on Spanish Television - today he has repeated it again here - who said that the lives of the Spaniards had worsened since we had a coalition government. Man, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you are forgetting a detail, and it is that a global pandemic has come for all the countries in the world! [[Applauds]] It is probably what negationism has, which you are blind to macho violence, you are blind to the climate crisis and you are also blind to the virulence of this virus. In any case, the Spanish are clear about what this government is doing: a historic social shield, more than 720,000 ERTE, which you do not dare to vote against, which today keeps thousands of families in our country afloat and many other proposals that you will see in the coming budgets, such as the shielding of public health. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you said that you have made the lives of the Spaniards worse. Tell me, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, a single measure that you have adopted in this Congress of Deputies that has improved the lives of the workers of this country. Tell me one measure, because you have not been able to approve a single measure for the benefit of the working class of this country. Honestly, you get a lot excited about symbols and flags, but you care about the town behind you. That's what happens to this right. And the best example of dropping out of education has been with the governments of the People's Party. We have eliminated, Madam Minister - that must be acknowledged - the decrees that underfunded the public education of the PP, a budget of EUR 2 billion has been approved for the autonomous communities to rescue public education at a complicated time and we have introduced different decrees in the field of education, including today's. And I too would like greater rigour on the part of everyone, Mrs Martín Llaguno. To say that a government that has 155 deputies passes the roller... [[Applauds]] It's just that we're missing twenty-one. We're twenty-one short to pass the roller. Do you know what the difference is? That this government and this minister have engaged in dialogue. It is you, Citizens, who do not want to be in dialogue because you prefer to be thrown into the mountains with your partners of the far right. [[applause.-Mrs. Martín Llaguno makes negative gestures]] This decree raises the requirement of educational training, sincerely, on an exceptional basis, and I would like to use it again, Minister, to demand that we give a solution already to so many interim legal frauds that exist in the Spanish State because they deserve it, because they do as all teachers do when they know they have worse working conditions than the rest of the teaching team. The decree also adapts the evaluation criteria and also the curriculum of the teaching programmes and, finally, orders the calculation of the school calendar. We, Minister, would ask you for a final effort, which is to see how we regulate the reduction of ratios not only to deal with this pandemic, but also because it also pedagogically helps all teachers in our classrooms. I'm done, Madam President and Madam Minister. I believe - I sincerely believe - that despite the mistakes that we have all made, because this pandemic is not expected of anyone, despite the mistakes of the central government, despite the mistakes of the autonomous communities, today we can say that the classrooms have been made in our centres a safe place, without triumphalism, without lowering the guard, but always aware that this has been achieved thanks to the super-effort of the teacher and thanks to the responsibility of the families, for whom I am asking from here today for the thanks of all the Members of this House. [[Applauds]] And I'm done with a plea to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. I would make a request to them, especially about what we are living in many sessions of this Congress these days. Please, I ask you less to shout, less to cry and more to work to shield public education in the next General State Budgets. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u172	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mrs Trias Gil has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u173	Madam Minister, I hope you are recovered from your health and I want to tell you that I regret the vandalism of those who have done the painting in your home. From this rostrum I repeat that VOX condemns all kinds of slavery. [[Applauds]] Minister, 'we live in cold times'. You yourself, in your first appearance of this legislature, last February 20, quoted these words of Saint Teresa of Jesus to describe the historical moment that we are living.Teresa de Cepeda y Ahumada, born in the province of Avila, whom I have the honour to represent in this Congress, whose feast we celebrate today, October 15, has opened paths of spirit for millions of souls throughout history. His firm, reciprocated and determined personality made him found almost five hundred years ago nineteen convents in just twenty years. His whole life is a boast of courage and innovation. Teresa of Jesus understood the resurrection as fidelity to what God dictated in her heart and she executed promptly. His life is an example for all of us in the sense of obedience to truth and good. By analogy, we could say that the cold times we live in compel us to exercise our positions with extreme responsibility, seeking at all times and in the case that occupies us the good of the Spanish students. Already on the subject, the actual decree under discussion is once again the legalization of the fact that the Government is always late and bad in terms of education. We finished last year, in June, with a great comparative aggravation regarding the promotion of courses among the students of the different autonomous communities. Many representatives of political parties, parents, teachers and associations representing the educational community raised the voice, demanding a unified approach from the Government to ensure equity among Spaniards. And what are we meeting here today? A royal decree that not only affects the same subject, but, in order to avoid conflict and already tacitly acknowledge the lack of authority of the Government in the field of education, leaves the decision on the promotion of pupils to the educational authorities - i.e., of each autonomous community and even of each centre. We are going to encounter an unequal puzzle, impossible to fit in, in which perhaps in Aragon you can pass the course with two suspenses while in Madrid it is not possible; a new comparative aggravation between Spaniards that we do not deserve. We live in a difficult situation, no one doubts it, but taking advantage of it to dismember more education in Spain is completely irresponsible. There is increasingly less equity and greater difference between different communities, with the consequent injustice that this implies in higher courses given the existence of a single university district. But it is that it goes further in this royal decree. It is an attack on meritocracy and excellence, because what is also indicated is that virtually everyone will approve, and by royal decree. It is not pedagogical and will not help either the teaching or the students themselves, who receive the message that the effort is not necessary to pass the course. After all, it is the students themselves, their families and the Spanish society in general who suffer the disastrous and irreversible consequences of this measure of minimums. [[Applauds]] It is once again a downward equalization very much in line with its long-awaited bill already under way. In this regard I remind you that if you and your government allies - both communists and separatists - do not change their minds, the presentation of the new education law will begin without the appearance of experts and this the Spaniards should know. This decree is only understood, as we have said, in the context of the downward equality that his Government has in order to make us all every day weaker in character, ignorant and more manageable; incapable, then, to live properly these cold times. [[The lady]] On the other hand, what is generally unclear throughout the decree is how and when an exceptional learning situation can be considered. The intensity of degrees to reach exceptionality, how is it arbitrated? And we ask ourselves other questions. Since a royal decree of education is passed, why is the topic of rationing not mentioned in the classrooms? Would it force too much commitment, that commitment as necessary as it is absent from your ministry? We need a real and effective commitment to the health and good of Spanish students. The issue of the ratios, the number of pupils per classroom, that very important topic, remains in the hands of each autonomous community and what is happening in reality - the reality, the one you always see from afar - is that each centre handles the situation as it can, reaching twenty-five, thirty-five students per classroom. Why is the issue of RCPs in educational centres or the protocols to be followed in relation to these RCPs not addressed, if positive in the classroom, by all the centres in Spain? Today we continue to be called worried parents because when there is a positive in a classroom you do not make PCR to your peers. What about a system of periodic tests in all educational establishments? What about the innovation that antigenic tests and group PCRs have brought? For not entering the very poor or non-existent tracking system, confirmed by hundreds of individuals who tell us that since they have given positive no one from the National Health System has called them. Sincerely, ladies and gentlemen, there are many real urgent issues directly related to the health of students and their families who are still in the air and who are not addressed in this royal decree, so we are going to vote against it. This decree is a new sign of the irresponsibility of a Government that is not able to assume leadership in education but rather to pass the ideological roller and to assume fewer and fewer responsibilities by becoming a Florentine ministry or authoritarian government as appropriate. It is amazing, on the one hand, that everything is delegated to the autonomous communities becoming a Florentine ministry, but when it comes to restricting freedoms then the authoritarian government quickly arrives. Irregularities in the use of the measuring rod are repeated continuously, pure dictatorship of relativism. Ladies and gentlemen, open your eyes to reality, abandon your comfort and fight for Spanish students so that everyone gets an education that is truly a social lift. Let us fight for the same opportunities for all and no longer complicate the already complex and uncontrolled autonomous maraña of the Spanish educational system. Ladies and gentlemen, open your eyes, there is a truth in things, abandon that parallel world in which you live, put yourselves to the service of the truth and fight for the good. For once be brave and in these cold times let us give each student in his desk what he needs to be free and authentically true. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u174	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u175	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, minister. After listening to this afternoon's interventions or at least some interventions, it seems that some have not realized that we are in a pandemic and that what is being discussed here today and discussed is nothing more than a real decree that comes to respond to many needs in the education system, to give legal certainty and to facilitate the lives of teachers and management teams, nothing more and nothing less. In other words, this royal decree provides for more than 8.5 million pupils who have security to complete the course and for more than 750 000 teachers who have certainty about a number of problems that can arise in this course. Look, we're already very used to that catastrophic tone. In the last debate we had here was the beginning of the course, and I remember that the benches of the right and the right came with the same alarmist message, message of fear, catastrophic message, that the educational centers were places to fear and that the autonomous communities were so irresponsible that they were going to subject the 8.5 million students of this country to a situation of absolute fear. Ladies and gentlemen, one month after the start of the course 99% of the classrooms in this country are open and it has been shown that the education system is a barrier to the virus. That's the reality and I think you have to assume it. Because today they have come with the same tone, with that tone and that speech of not contributing anything, of looking for problems where there are none, of talking about issues that do not come to the point. What we are talking about here today is very important issues that affect a very important part of Spanish students. On the other hand, I would also say to you, Mr Clavell, that you learn to read a little more and that you do not simply read the media of the right or what a minority of the educational community says, because you have forgotten about 70% of the educational community, which is in favour of a new educational law, which is against the Lomce, which is against those tax measures that led to the educational system, which is against the policy of cuts, which is against that model of invalids, which is against that educational model that you alone defend; an archaic model, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] That archaic model, which seems to be the only one that seeks to punish the students, that rancio model of the best duties, that model of not facilitating equal opportunities. By the way, I was surprised that there was a right-wing group that spoke today about equal opportunities in the education system. Welcome! However, the measures that you are proposing are going to be countered, they are going to close opportunities in the educational system, and that is what we want to combat today with this decree. But he was talking about his educational model, that of a great burden of duties, that of not helping to promote our students, that of putting barriers for them to move forward, that evaluation system that all he does is permanent punishment. That's what the right hand brings to Spanish education, is the system of backwardness in past times, that of the revalidated ones that they like so much. [[The lady]] They were also talking here about the elimination of diagnostic assessments. Mrs Martín, have you not already learned that PISA evaluations this year have already been suspended by the same criteria as diagnostic evaluations, those competency assessments that you like to mention so much? I think we need to be a little consistent; if the OECD international report has eliminated international assessments, it is logical that diagnostic assessments should also be cancelled in Spain. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] If so, you're saying everyone happens. I used to talk about reading a little bit better and I certainly ratify it here. We must improve the reading skills, ladies and gentlemen, because I fear that you have not read the royal decree or, if you have read it, misinterpreted it or interpreted it, because nowhere in that royal decree says the barbarity of having to be given the approved one; nowhere in that royal decree is it said that teachers have the obligation to approve students when they have suspended; in no place in that royal decree-law is it intended that a student be given the course simply because he is a student. No, ladies and gentlemen, the teachers have objective criteria and, moreover, I must remind you that this is not a novelty either. The current law, its law, the Wert law, the Lomce, provides for students to be able to promote on-the-job courses with suspended subjects and to hold on-the-job courses. [[Applauds]] It is just that under the Wert law, ladies and gentlemen, it has been achieved that more than 30% of pupils in secondary education repeat, that with the Wert law more than 24% of pupils pass from school with suspended subjects. And then you come to criticize him, but, of course, it's all you do is look for glues at everything, but you don't remember what you've introduced and that's been so harshly criticized by the educational community. Let's keep looking at the royal decree-law. You boast of effort, of excellence, but I would like you to use the same standard with everyone, because I imagine you will also use the same standard of excellence and of the culture of effort with your Mr. Married and with your master's degree, I say. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Or do you not remember the need for an effort culture for higher degrees? [[Applauds]] They talk about the culture of effort, but they do not propose any alternative measures in this respect, none, ladies and gentlemen, simply that the students, in a situation of pandemic, when they have had to adapt the curriculum and make it more flexible, are suspended, that they repeat, that they have no more opportunities. Well, look, we're in favour of no one being left behind, absolutely no one. And what I cannot understand either is that you come here to vote against measures for the faculty, because that's what you do. Are you aware that this royal decree foresees and enables the extension of this agreement for the stabilization of teachers, that agreement that will favor the interim ones, that seeks the reduction of the rate of interinity to 8%, that agreement that, by the way, you promoted and that thanks to this royal decree can be allowed and extended for the next course? I would also ask them to be consistent, because are they also against the fact that in exceptional cases, when there is no longer a teacher with a master's degree to be able to practice, they can be hired? Be consistent, in their autonomous communities they are claiming it. I'm from Castile and León and last week all the media were claiming teachers with or without a master's degree, because there were no teachers in some specialties. They are voting against even what their own autonomous communities need.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u176	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u177	Not to mention that they are voting against vocational training students and that they can carry out training at a work centre. They also vote against those extraordinary measures in artistic, language and sports education. You vote against everything by system.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u178	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u179	I'm done, President. I ask you to focus, to return a little to normality, to contribute something to the educational system and, please, to support this decree, because you are also so inconsequential that you even vote against the same thing that you permanently defend. Otherwise, this royal decree will come forth despite you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u181	We turn to the point concerning the opinions of the Committees on legislative initiatives and, in particular, to the proposal for an Organic Law amending the Criminal Code for the eradication of forced or non-consensual sterilization of persons with disabilities who are legally incapacitated. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u182	Thank you very much, President. I am speaking very briefly. We discussed the Commission's opinion on the proposed Organic Law amending the Criminal Code in order to eliminate from it the sterilization agreed by the judiciary in the case of persons with disabilities, as provided for in the second paragraph of its article 156. Ladies and gentlemen, our vote, that of the Basque Parliamentary Group, will be in favour of this amendment and not only to be consistent with what we have already voted on in the paper and in the legislative committee, but - and this is indeed important - to promote the dignity of the person himself considered, apart from his or her status, situation or personal circumstances. Because, ladies and gentlemen, as all of you will share, the dignity of the person is the most relevant fundamental right, for from it all others derive. We will also vote in favour of this amendment of the Criminal Code, because this promotes the real equality of persons with disabilities with respect to the rest and, therefore, their better social inclusion. In another respect, we will also vote in favour of amending article 156 of the Criminal Code to bring our legislation into line with the international treaties that have been signed, to comply with the commitments made and the recommendations of the agencies that protect them, such as, in the present case, the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and CERMI, as an independent follow-up mechanism to the New York Convention in Spain. I conclude, Madam President, by urging all of us to continue to take steps in the right direction, whose immediate milestone we will have with the debate on the bill reforming civil and procedural legislation to support persons with disabilities in the exercise of their legal capacity and trusting that we will be able to reach the broadest consensus, at least as we have achieved in the amendment that we have reached today. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u184	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a day that changes Spain for the better. From Citizens we proposed an initiative that in the midst of the pain of the pandemic, of concern, brings us a ray of hope. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the Criminal Code in so far as it does not allow for forced sterilization, we believe that it is a great step forward on equal terms. I am sure that many people may find it unthinkable that forced sterilizations are carried out in the 21st century in our country, it seems to be a matter of the past, of the dark part of our past that we have left behind, but it is not. We propose this reform because our article 156.2 allows for the forced sterilization of persons with disabilities or incapacitated judicially, an exception that affects women with disabilities, who are prevented from being mothers by force; and not by any force, ladies and gentlemen, by force of law. In an advanced democracy like ours, it is surprising that the right of persons with disabilities to form a family without any discrimination has been ignored. Forced or non-consensual sterilization in cases where it is still permitted is an anomaly in our human rights protection system. It will respect the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of 2006, ratified by our State in 2008; the Istanbul Convention; the protection of personal integrity and, from a gender perspective, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. We are therefore surprised that this anomaly has been allowed in our system until now, because it has no justification. Therefore, from Citizens we were clear that we could not spend a single minute more without adjusting our legal framework to the European framework, to the international framework and to the recommendations of the international bodies in this field, namely that of the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2016 and again in 2019. I firmly believe in the equality of all people, and I am therefore proud to have promoted an amendment to our Criminal Code in order to eliminate forever from our legislation that exception that allows for the forced sterilization of persons with disabilities, an initiative that has been defending Cermi, and specifically Cermi Women, for years to come, to whom I thank for their work. Furthermore, we are proud to have managed to bring this reform forward with broad consensus, something that we should be much more accustomed to in this House; a consensus to which we parliamentary groups must come, giving political size. Why? For issues of equality, for issues of inclusion, for issues that improve our society, especially at this time. In these moments of COVID is the spirit that from Citizens we want to promote, build a better society and reach agreements. That's useful politics. In addition, we are faced with a reform that will have a translation in the lives of many women, of disabled women who will have their guaranteed right to be mothers. On the occasion of my parliamentary work, I have heard various testimonies from women who have been stripped of something as basic and as profound as the ability to create life. As a mother, it upsets my stomach; as a person, it outrages me. Because these women are taken away from being mothers because of their disability, as if only because of that condition could they be denied the right to form a family. Moreover, the worst thing about hearing these testimonies is that we see that there are women who believe in it. Disappointed, resigned, they accept that they do not deserve to be mothers. Therefore, I believe it is a reform that will improve the physical, emotional and motivational health of so many women. Furthermore, we are aware that this is a first stone on this path because there is a great deal of work to be done for the equality and inclusion of persons with disabilities, and our parliamentary group will be on that path. Today we can cling to these consensuses, to that political will of understanding to begin to build great pacts of state that lead us to address together the most important: the reforms that our citizenship, that our State needs to improve the lives of the Spaniards. We need to be aware of what the citizenry is asking us to shout, ladies and gentlemen, that we reach agreements. Let us leave the tones of confusion which, repeatedly, do not cease in this House. We gave political heights. I think we're giving it today. I am very grateful for the work of the various parliamentarians who have addressed this initiative. We have all been joined by consensus and I think it is a good example for us to move forward in this climate of agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u185	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Various international agencies and institutions - including the UN - have recognized that forced sterilization of persons with disabilities can be considered a form of torture and constitutes a violation of human rights. Practices such as this are based on prejudices arising from paternalism and the childishization of persons with disabilities, which are not recognized as sufficiently discerning to make decisions about their own sexuality and reproduction, thus denying the dignity and integrity of persons with disabilities. Despite the progress made, the legislation of many countries, including the Spanish State, to date continues to allow judges, health professionals, family members or guardians to validly supplement the will and consent of the disabled person to be sterilized or sterilized for his or her best interests. We are talking about disabled people, but it should be remembered that the vast majority of them are girls and young women, adding a number of factors that aggravate discrimination, such as youth, disability and gender, and that Spanish law has just recognized the ability of women in general to decide on their own bodies. Sterilization in the name of this alleged best interest does not protect them from sexual violence or from abuse and aggression. This legislative reform is therefore necessary and urgent. We will thus prevent girls and young people with disabilities from being subjected without their consent to sterilization procedures and to do so under the general assumption of their inability to properly manage decisions about their sexual life, reproduction and possible motherhood. For these, as for the whole population in general, the key, in addition to this legislative reform, is undoubtedly full and taboo sex education. In addition, there is a need to educate and sensitize society at large on the sexual and reproductive health and rights of women with disabilities and to eliminate all forms of violence against them. That is why we are voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u187	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Miquel i Valenti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u188	Thank you, President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Since it could not be otherwise, our group welcomes the introduction of this legislative amendment which corrects a very clear anomaly, of which we can certainly all agree that it is late, and which has led to a certain infantilization of human beings to the extreme. He said he corrects an anomaly because forced sterilization of people should not be normal and, in fact, by fighting it and changing the law as we do, tonight we make a better, much freer, more democratic, more dignified, more egalitarian and much more just society. Therefore, from our group we wanted to proclaim this vote in favour and celebrate that we are fighting these anomalies, as well as thanking them to platforms such as Cermi or Dincat, which have been working for many years to make this a reality. As I said, we welcome the fact that this initiative is presented here today and that this will make a society a little better among all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u190	Good night. Thank you, President. This bill, which we hope to adopt today, is a great achievement in terms of the rights of all persons with disabilities, but especially for women. Today, with the repeal of article 156 of the Criminal Code, the possibility of forced sterilization, a serious violation of fundamental human rights that still existed in our legal system, is eliminated. This measure has been pending since the Spanish State ratified the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified in 2008. It is a further step in the abandonment of that paternalistic framework which considers persons with disabilities only as the object of protection and care, in order to move towards a plan of equality, of guaranteeing fundamental rights and the recognition that all people, each with our functional diversity, must have the capacity to decide on our own life. The UN Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities stated in 2017 that women with disabilities have many problems in deciding for themselves about their sexual and reproductive health, and are systematically exposed to violence, abuse and harmful practices such as sterilization, abortion or forced contraception. In February 2018, Cermi Mujeres and the European Disability Forum, together with other entities, demanded to end this unconsensual practice in women and girls in our country. The United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in 2019, reiterated its concern that women continue to be subjected to sterilization and forced abortion and urged the Spanish State to repeal article 156. That is what we will do today, facing a problem that is not residual. According to data from the General Council of the Judiciary, in the last ten years about a thousand women have been sterilized in our country. From Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú we understand that responding to the demands of this collective is a question of rights, it is a democratic demand and cannot depend on goodwill or budget availability. This coalition government and this parliamentary group with this and other initiatives are derailing the path taken by the governments of the People's Party that punished people with disabilities with their neoliberal policies of austerity. They virtually demolished the Law on Dependency and Personal Autonomy, cut subsidies and benefits, imposed co-payments, cut resources to support autonomy, educational inclusion and employment and social inclusion. This coalition government is working in a context as difficult as the current one, as the one we are living in, so that all people, regardless of their functional diversity, achieve total equality, and it was reflected in the government agreement. At present they are in various states of procedure in this House: a bill to regulate cognitive accessibility; another important reform of legislation on the legal capacity of persons with disabilities, which ends incapacitation, replacing it with a support system for free decision-making; the education law, which will lead to progress in educational inclusion; the child and adolescent protection law, which promotes early care, among other things, and in addition the coalition Government is working on a shock plan to improve the system of care for dependency and the promotion of personal autonomy, which will be reflected in State budgets. With all this we comply with the international conventions signed, but we also meet the just demands of groups of disability, functional diversity and women who, with tireless work, whom we want to thank and value from here, have been for a long time denouncing discrimination, fighting for their rights, demanding equality and proposing alternatives. We cannot ignore these demands. The rule that we will adopt today not only prevents forced sterilization, but also commits itself to strengthening the Law of 2002 on patient autonomy, and the Law of 2010 on sexual and reproductive health, with two objectives. First, that people who, as patients, have to make decisions and need support have clinical information and documentation in accessible formats, channels and supports so that their decision is free and informed. Secondly, the obligation of the public authorities to guarantee the right to sexual and reproductive health of persons with disabilities is reinforced. We believe that it is essential to make progress on this guarantee of access to information and support, and on the training of sexual and reproductive health. This is essential for the entire population, but especially for people with functional diversity, to exercise their rights and avoid abuse. We know that the right often regards sexual and reproductive health training as indoctrination if it does not coincide with its ideology, but international organizations demand it, consider it essential, and we will make progress in this regard. This coalition government and our parliamentary group have a strong commitment to end discrimination of all kinds, to make progress in promoting the autonomy of everyone in affective-sexual education, to avoid abuse, to support freely assumed motherhood and to alleviate difficult socio-economic situations that make life and future projects impossible for people. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is an important day, today we continue to build a more dignified, fair and inclusive country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u191	Thank you very much, Mrs. Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u192	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. What we are discussing today in this House is a really serious matter because it is something that should never have been approved. The forced sterilization of persons with disabilities by judicial judgement or for whatever reason is a form of forced mutilation of persons with disabilities without their consent, which in any case constitutes an attack on their physical integrity, on their very personal rights and, ultimately, on their human dignity. It is extremely serious that our legal system is allowed to do so, but why is it allowed in our legal system? I'll explain it to you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, I see you very much on fire and complacent with the associations when you are looking bad today, because they look good, something that they felt very good about in 1989 because if they didn't look bad. And that's where all his morale comes in. [[Applauds]] Because the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that this precept that we come to repeal today has its origin, and that origin is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Mr. Rego spoke of forced sterilization as torture. Mr Rego, it is the PSOE who introduced torture to persons with disabilities without their consent in our legal system. On 1 June 1989 it was the debate on this reform of the Penal Code that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party introduced. The result of the vote was as follows - and I have the Minutes here -: 254 votes cast, 205 votes in favour of all the members of the Socialist Party, of the CDS, of the Catalan minority, of the PNV, of course, of the members of the Government and of the Bureau present in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, on 22 June 1989 the precept which we are pleased to repeal was published in the BOE. This provision has taken shape and has become the second paragraph of article 156 of the 1995 Criminal Code, which is a little less than two hundred years old. Do you know what the socialist Luis Jiménez de Asúa was saying on this subject, which you will surely know and who was also president of this House? For my friends from The Sixth, who will then want to manipulate me, I will literally quote Mr Jiménez de Asúa, a socialist parliamentarian: The idiots, the idiots, the essential epileptics and all those sick without a remedy who are to engender these sad spoils, candidates for misfortune and asylum, must be sterilized when their incurable disease is, in the opinion of medical specialists, transmitted to their descendants. Ladies and gentlemen, this is vomiting, this is aberrant, this is immoral. The words of this socialist parliamentarian and the introduction of this precept by the Socialist Party in 1989, with the abstention - of course - of the People's Group, of the right, are the precedent of this most unjust precept allowing forced mutilation of persons with disabilities. [[Rumors]] I do not know whether this gentleman will have a street or a statue, but, set to play the game of the left of democratic memory, you will have to think about removing it. [[Applauds]] And if now you, ladies and gentlemen of the left, want to look good because this issue is fashionable, because it was something very old that went very wrong and now you have to take a historic step, you have the seats, the little shame and the media, you have the power in the end, but there is something you will never have, and that is the reason in this sense. Saint Teresa said, as my colleague Georgina recalled today - and, moreover, is her day?, that truth suffers, but it does not perish. And they sell what they sell, it will remain true that it was the Spanish Socialist Workers Party that introduced this aberration into the Spanish legal order with the complacent right. That is true, with three votes in conscience, two from the Group of the European People's Party, which we hope will be much more next week in the motion of censure. [[Laughter]] However, it would be unfair to ignore the fact that there were no voices in those years that did defend the human dignity of persons with disabilities, because there were. There was a ruling by the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court also voted in favour of this provision. However, there were votes against and there were particular votes such as that of Mr Gabaldon, which would seem to you today to be a dangerous reactionary and which, however, was the only one who defended the human dignity of persons with disabilities in those years. The inability to allow the injury of an essential right of personality, such as that of bodily integrity, which is considered to be irrevocable and not subject to disposition, due to its nature, cannot be supplemented - he said in his particular vote - by the failure to allow the injury of an essential right of personality. Mr Gabaldón also stated that the purpose of this precept is eugenics. In other words, the Socialist Party, with the abstention of the People's Party, introduced into the Penal Code a precept for eugenic purposes. I recognise that the only doubt I have in this debate right now is to agree on the vote with the rest of your ladies and gentlemen. I would like it to be because in the background we are not so far away in our worldview, but I fear it is not the answer to my wish, because if you were really addressing this debate from the point of view of human dignity, you would apply it to the rest of the debates. If you truly believed in the dignity of the person, it might not even be necessary for VOX to exist and be here today in this Parliament, but I am afraid that VOX is more necessary than ever because I see in this debate a huge inconsistency and a pitiful hypocrisy. I would love for us in this House to truly debate the dignity of the person, to sincerely do so, to do so from the heart, because the dignity of persons with disabilities is the same as that of persons without disabilities, because human dignity, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly the same for all individuals on this planet, regardless of their size, their qualities, their sex, their condition; human dignity belongs to all individuals without exception, as bearers of eternal values. [[Applauds]] But you, ladies and gentlemen - and I am finished, Madam President - do not believe in human dignity since you are also in favour of crushing babies in the womb of your mothers, or what is worse, infinitely worse, than doing so on the grounds of disability. They do not believe that because they also support something that is contrary to the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. But I recognize that there is something in this whole matter that makes me reflect, and that is that the People's and Socialist parties allow this precept to enter the Criminal Code in 1989 and yet in 2020 they decide that it must be withdrawn. I'd love for this situation to happen again in a lot less years...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u193	Mrs. De Meer, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u194	I'm finishing up, Madam President. ...after so many legislative delusions that make us live in this House. He said Saint-Exupéry is easy to fill the one who has no space in the heart. If you fill in with this step today and still think that the life of a person with a disability is worth less than that of a person without a disability, it is that you have nothing left in your heart. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u195	Thank you, Mrs. De Meer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs González Guinda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u196	I want my first words here, in this rostrum, to be for people with disabilities and for their families, for whom this pandemic, for all so hard, is being more, and we know that they are finding many silences, too many closed doors and too few resources. I would also like to extend a cordial greeting to the disability association movement, in particular to Cermi, who, as you know, brings together 8000 associations and entities representing almost 4 million people with disabilities in Spain and their families; to Luis Cayo Pérez, his tireless president; to Jesús Martín Blanco, who is fully committed to giving a human rights approach to disability policies; and to Ana Peláez, a tireless fighter in the defence of women and girls with disabilities. I know today is a great day for them and I regret that health restrictions have prevented them from being here today as they wished. Thanks to all of them for their great work and for faithfully approaching the reality and daily needs of persons with disabilities. [[Applauds]] Today we are discussing the proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code for the eradication of forced or non-consensual sterilization of persons with disabilities who are legally disabled. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in its article 23, on respect for the home and the family, paragraph 1, provides that States parties shall take effective and relevant measures to put an end to discrimination against persons with disabilities in all matters relating to marriage, family, paternity, and urge member countries to ensure that their fertility is maintained on an equal basis with others. That treaty was ratified by Spain in 2007 and entered into force in 2008, a ratification which, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, implies an acceptance of its legal obligations under the treaty and which therefore obliges us to adapt our legislation and to establish public policies to enforce the obligations acquired. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women, known as the Istanbul Convention, ratified by Spain in March 2014, makes it a criminal act in article 39 to criminalize surgical interventions that will end a woman's ability to reproduce naturally without her prior and informed consent. In addition, the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the United Nations body responsible for ensuring compliance with the Convention, in its last report, drafted from a human rights perspective, with regard to the improvements to be faced by Spain, the first is the elimination of forced sterilization. Today we are here to legislate in favour of this measure, with the amendment of article 156 of the Criminal Code in order to eradicate the forced sterilization of persons with disabilities from our legal system, and we do so not only as an obligation to comply with our international commitments, but, more importantly, we do so on the understanding that with this legislative step we take a great step as a society, a great step towards guaranteeing equality and life in dignity for persons with disabilities. Forced sterilization affects men and women, although to a much greater extent women and girls, and it is therefore normal for us to focus on them, given that they suffer double discrimination: because of their disability and their status as women. The testimonies of those who have suffered it are shocking because this practice, ladies and gentlemen, involves a denial of their status as a person and an attack on their bodily integrity which, in cases of psychosocial disability, traumatizes the victim and can have consequences on their mental health for life and, which is extremely serious, can increase vulnerability to sexual abuse. Well, today we are discussing a text that welcomes Cermi, which - let us not forget - is the independent body responsible for monitoring the implementation of the convention here in Spain, a text that comes, after its processing in the Senate, with a broad consensus. The issues related to disability dealt with here in Congress have also always enjoyed a great consensus, such as - I remind you - the one achieved in the XII Legislature with a Government of the People's Party, in which the amendment of the Electoral Law recognized the right of more than 100,000 people with intellectual disabilities to vote as full citizens, and was adopted unanimously. For the sake of that consensus, the People's Party, in its proceedings here in the Lower House, did not make any amendments to the original text. However, the Socialist Party introduced in the paper two amendments that we understood from the very beginning that they had no other purpose than to break that consensus, some amendments aimed at amending two laws: the Basic Law regulating patient autonomy and the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health, without specifying which articles and in what terms such amendments will be made, amendments - I repeat - aimed at breaking the consensus that we understand was guaranteed from the very beginning with just maintaining the initial text. The efforts of the PSOE have not only not been in the sense of seeking such consensus, but quite the contrary: we understand that efforts have been made to break it. Thus, in the presentation of this bill the People's Party proposed a particular vote back to the text before the incorporation of the amendments of the PSOE that did not prosper. In any case, I would like to make it clear that the People's Party is in favour of amending the Penal Code so that the forced sterilization of persons with disabilities is eradicated from it. And, despite the PSOE's efforts to break that consensus, we express our clear commitment to Cermi, to the text they have endorsed and to women with disabilities, and we are not going to break that consensus. However, I deeply regret that this debate has not been attended by the vice-president of Social Rights, with competence in disability, who, with the Government with more posts and ministries of democracy, has made disappear the specific commission for comprehensive disability policies, which was permanent and which the Government of the People's Party has provided with legislative powers - by the way, it has not promoted this measure that we are taking here - nor the Minister of Equality, Mrs Montero, on such an important issue for all women, for all women and girls with disabilities. [[applause]] He seems to be more concerned about changing the procedure of election of the General Council of the Judiciary following the accusations that fall on him and her for alleged machisms of algorithms and for the defense of a hypothetical republican horizon. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President of Social Rights and Disability, Minister of Equality, wherever they are, today is a great day for people with disabilities and their families. Today is a great day for all, for when we adopt this proposal we take - I repeat - a great step towards a more just, more inclusive and more dignified society; in short, towards a better society. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u197	Thank you, Mrs. González. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sahuquillo García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, about two years ago this Parliament approved the amendment to the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime on the right to vote for persons with disabilities. So, in this guest gallery - now empty by the damn virus - the representatives of the organized disability associations, Cermi, for whom, together with the Cermi Women Foundation, I want to be my first words of congratulations and congratulations on what we are going to approve. [[Applauds]] Today they cannot be physically in the Chamber, but I am convinced that their soul and heart are. And if at that time that legislative agreement provoked enthusiasm, I am convinced that it will be repeated because of the effect on the collective that the amendment of article 156 of the Criminal Code will have, which currently admits the possibility of sterilizing persons incapacitated by the courts without their consent. Both then and now I would like to thank you for making evident many situations of injustice or disadvantages in our country and throughout the world. Thank you for that. I remember that plenary. I am reminded of the words that my colleague Joan Ruiz i Carbonell expressed in this rostrum on that day. It said: Defending the most vulnerable sectors of our society is part of our raison d'être, of our raison d'être, of our DNA, as demonstrated by the General Health Act, the Dependency Act or the content of the agreements of the Councils of Ministers of this Government. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, these people with rights enjoy the full complicity of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We are working to change our legislation, our legal system to bring it into line with the mandate of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Today, as at the time, we are taking a step further to realize the rights of persons with disabilities and, specifically, those of many women. Therefore, as you know, the purpose of this amendment of the law is to remove from our legal system the sterilization of persons incapacitated by the courts without their full consent, even if it is agreed by a judicial body. The reasons are weighty. First, because it resolves an issue that directly affects the human rights of individuals and their physical integrity, especially women. Secondly, because on this issue we have been alerting the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as a country for some years now. And, third, because it responds to an important demand from women with disabilities, the associative movement and their families. All parliamentary groups agree on the need to reform article 156 of the Criminal Code and this has been expressed unanimously. Our goal since we started working on the paper has always been to improve the proposal for a law and to frame it in the reform of two laws necessary for persons with disabilities to make their decisions freely and well informed, Mrs González. I am referring to the Patient Self-Government Act and the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act and the Voluntary Termination of Pregnancy Act. We understand that, in order to ensure access to information and education on family planning and reproduction, it is not only necessary to repeal Article 156(2) of the Criminal Code, but also to be incardinated within the provisions of the above-mentioned law, where the most relevant aspects of this law are accommodated from the health and educational fields. That is why we are proposing an amendment to the text at the time. That is working, Mrs Gonzalez, not breaking consensus. It's work, which you didn't do. And within the presentation we agreed and agreed, listened to the political groups and responded to their demands; also yours, Mrs Gonzalez, and I will be prudent, honest and respectful to you, because we talked and had conversations. We are drawing up a compromise amendment in the Committee on Justice, now converted into the text as the third final provision, for which the VOX Group has requested a separate vote. This has clearly been reflected in the fact that the right wing of the parliamentary arch is being overwhelmed only by hearing about Act No. 2/2010 of 3 March 2010 on sexual and reproductive health and the voluntary termination of pregnancy. [[Applauds]] Here, unfortunately, we have disagreed, despite the consensus that this legislative amendment should go ahead. It reproduces the animation that the Spanish right has to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health. Don't be so afraid of people acting freely and knowing about their sexuality, including people with disabilities. If you really believe that this law should be repealed or amended, have political courage and propose it here in Parliament. Do you not know that this problem only you have, that it does not respond to the social reality and that you would again be brutal with all the women in this country? The sexual and reproductive rights guaranteed by this law give freedom and security to women in this country. That is the path that the Socialists want to go on. This parliamentary group hopes that persons with disabilities will be able to choose independently, with the necessary and accessible support, also with regard to their sexuality, and be independent in all aspects of their lives, but without leaving them alone. What does that third final provision that so rash gives to the People's Parliamentary Group and VOX say? I read: The Government will refer to the General Courts a draft law amending the Basic Law on Patient Autonomy and Rights and Obligations in the Field of Clinical Information and Documentation and Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March 2010 on Sexual and Reproductive Health and Voluntary Discontinuance of Pregnancy, with the aim of strengthening the availability of information and clinical documentation in accessible formats, channels and media for persons with disabilities who require human and material support, including technology, to enable them to make their decision as patients free and informed and to strengthen the obligation of public authorities to guarantee the right to sexual and reproductive health of persons with disabilities. Can you not support this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group? We are talking about existing legislation. From VOX, after listening to his spokesman and the tone he had, I understand perfectly. All he had to do was tell us: a warning. Finally, thank you, however, for the talent we have had in the presentation and in the Commission. I wish it were the same or similar in all areas of the discussions that take place in this house. I add to what my fellow citizen Sara Giménez said. I would like to thank everyone - everyone - for their work, and in particular my fellow rapporteurs, José Luis Ramos, Sonia Guerra, our spokesman in the Committee on Justice, Paco Aranda, and, of course, the lawyers, for their effective work. I'm done, President. With this initiative and with this measure, a little further progress is being made in the recognition of the rights of persons with disabilities as full subjects in our country. We resolve an issue that directly affects the human rights of persons with disabilities, their physical integrity and that dignifies us all as a democratic society. We are taking one more step for the rights of all today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u199	Thank you, Mr. Sahuquillo. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in two minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who voted through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. No-law propositions. No legislative proposal by the Joint Parliamentary Group concerning the worrying situation of the basic industry and its jobs as a consequence of the Government's long delay in approving the Statute of the EE consumer. [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca]] Voted in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group into the Congress and the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 247 telematics, 347; in favour, 31 plus 134 telematics, 165; abstentions, 69 plus 113 telematics, 182.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u201	It was therefore adopted. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the compromise with democratic coexistence and the rejection of hatred and fanaticism. [[File number 162/000322]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u202	The Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on commitment to democratic coexistence and rejection of hatred and fanaticism. The vote was taken on the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 68 plus 99 telematics votes, 167; against, 31 plus 59 telematics votes, 90; abstentions, 1 plus 90 telematics votes, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u203	It was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u204	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent questioning of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the crisis opened within the Civil Guard for the latest dismissals in the aforementioned body, for the general policy of dismissals and appointments carried out by the Minister of the Interior and in general for the orders issued by the Government to the senior commanders of the State Security Forces and Bodies during this health crisis. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The vote was taken on the following day result: votes were cast, 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 31 plus 121 telematics votes, 152; against, 68 plus 101 telematics votes, 169; abstentions, 1 plus 26 telematics votes, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u205	It is therefore rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the political management of the Government, the defence of the rule of law and the constitutional order. [[File number 173/000026]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u206	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the political management of the Government, the defence of the rule of law and constitutional order. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of Amendment No 1, tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 31 plus 123 telematics votes, 154; against, 69 plus 119 telematics votes, 188; abstentions, 6 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u207	It is therefore rejected. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO VALUE THE ASSISTANCE OF MARKETED MEASURES BY THE GOVERNMENT TO ENSURE THE SUPERVISION OF BUSINESS AND EMPLOYMENT IN THE HOSTELERY AND OTHER SECTORS RELATED TO TOURISM IN SPAIN. [[File number 173/000027]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u208	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to assess the absence of measures taken by the Government to ensure the survival of businesses and jobs in the hospitality sector and other tourism-related sectors in Spain. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 31 plus 125 telematics votes, 156; against, 68 plus 98 telematics votes, 166; abstentions, 1 plus 25 telematics votes, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u209	It is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u210	Validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Royal Decree-Law 28/2020, of 22 September, from remote work. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 100 plus 193 telematics votes, 293; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 54 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u211	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 247 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 100 plus 239 telematics votes, 339; against, 7 telematics votes; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u212	It is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. [[Applauds]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 29/2020, OF 29 SEPTEMBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE FIELD OF TELEWORK IN PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIVES AND HUMAN RESOURCES IN THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM TO FRONT THE HEALTH CRISIS PROVIDED BY COVID-19. [[File number 130/000030]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u213	Royal Decree-Law 29/2020 of 29 September on urgent measures in the field of teleworking in public administrations and human resources in the National Health System to address the health crisis caused by COVID-19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 247 telematics votes, 347; 69 plus 127 telematics votes, 196; 31 plus 110 telematics votes, 141; abstentions, 10 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u214	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 31 plus 127 telematics votes, 158; against, 69 plus 121 telematics votes, 190.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u215	It is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 30/2020, OF 29 SEPTEMBER, OF SOCIAL MEASURES IN DEFENCE OF EMPLOYMENT. [[File number 130/000031]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u216	Royal Decree-Law 30/2020 of 29 September on social measures in defence of employment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 100 plus 245 telematics votes, 345; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u217	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 31 plus 136 telematics votes, 167; against, 69 plus 111 telematics votes, 180; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u218	It is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 31/2020 OF 29 SEPTEMBER, adopting urgent measures in the field of non-universal education. [[File number 130/000032]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u219	Royal Decree-Law 31/2020 of 29 September, adopting urgent measures in the field of non-university education. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; 69 plus 118 telematics votes, 187; 30 plus 124 telematics votes, 154; abstentions, 1 plus 6 telematics votes, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u220	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 31 plus 126 telematics votes, 157; against, 68 plus 108 telematics votes, 176; abstentions, 1 plus 14 telematics votes, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u221	Therefore, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u222	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Proposal for an organic law amending the Criminal Code for the eradication of forced or non-consensual sterilization of persons with disabilities who are legally disabled. We are voting first of all on the Commission's opinion. Voting on final provision 3rd new. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 69 plus 135 telematics votes, 204; against, 54 telematics votes; abstentions, 31 plus 59 telematics votes, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u223	The provision was adopted. Vote on the remainder of the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 100 plus 246 telematics votes, 346; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u224	The opinion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u225	Overall vote on the proposal for an organic law amending the Criminal Code for the eradication of forced or non-consensual sterilization of persons with disabilities who are legally incapacitated because they are of the same organic nature. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 100 plus 248 telematics votes, 348.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-15-CD201015.u226	The proposal for an organic law was adopted unanimously. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, applause is on the table.]] Thank you very much and good night. The meeting rose. It was nine and five minutes of the night.
