ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don José Manuel Franco Pardo, I ask Don Rafael José Vélez if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u2	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u3	In place of dona María Marrodán Funes, I ask dona Raquel Pedraja Sainz if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u4	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u5	In place of Don José Javier Izquierdo Roncero, I ask Don Julio del Valle de Iscar if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u6	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u7	Don Rafael José Vélez, dona Raquel Pedraja Sáinz and don Julio del Valle de Iscar have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u8	We begin with the consideration of the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies on the manner in which the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution is to be given. Mr Rojas García has the floor for the presentation of this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President; with your coming. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, despite the government. I would like to express the honour it represents for this humble Member of Parliament to speak in this rostrum, and I would like to thank my President, my spokesman, my parliamentary group; in short, the People's Party, which for me is the best party in Spain, which has twice taken Spain out of a great crisis and which will do so again on a third occasion since the Government, which I have no doubt about, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I have just referred to the word 'crisis', and the allusion very much to our regret, believe me, comes as a model in the matter that we are going to deal with this afternoon, because it is also a crisis that gave rise to the reform of the Rules of Congress that we are coming to present in this House today before all of you, ladies and gentlemen. It is the crisis of principles, it is the vigour that is given to constitutional values when in the same Congress some abide by the Constitution promising against the Constitution itself and others defend it, ladies and gentlemen. I know this doesn't make any sense, but that's exactly what happened here and we've all seen it, all your lordships have seen it. That is why our unequivocal obligation is not to happen again and to restore the values that this House should never have lost, the cradle of the Constitution itself. I was saying, ladies and gentlemen, that we can clearly reconcile the fact that this government is going to be the meeting, but the meeting again with the economic crisis. And this has already made its scene, it has grown with the year of socialist government after the motion of censure and it has taken great speed in just a few weeks of coalition government. And that clearly shows us two sides, ladies and gentlemen: on the one hand, an economic crisis and, on the other hand, another that emerges more strongly, the crisis that I was talking about before, of breaking constitutional principles and values. The economics, obviously not wanted by the government but unequivocally linked to this kind of left-wing coalitions, as the facts and recent history in our country have shown us. The other crisis, ladies and gentlemen, is that of the break with constitutional values, and, look!, which seems to be wanted by the government, seems to be wanted by the government in its assault on the skies, and this causes us a grave concern to millions of Spaniards that we have to bring here and that we have an unequivocal obligation to defend here. Because we are faced with a way of proceeding that is eager to colonize the institutions, breaking down the rules of play established in the last forty years, clearly inserted in the Constitution, to build with its spoils something that can only be interpreted in the future by the colonizer. From this challenge comes the initiative presented by the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be able to establish a simple compliance procedure with a formula that amends Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, where the Presidency of Congress will address each of the Members by stating the following formula: Do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution? Such oath or promise shall be given by the Member by replying only: yes, I swear or do promise, without being able to precede or pursue any other expression to that statement which voids, limits or conditions its own meaning, as clearly mandated by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which has warned that the answer to the appeal made cannot be accompanied by clauses or expressions which in one way or another void, limit, condition, its own meaning whatever the justification invoked for it. The Constitutional Court's judgment 119/1990 is clear. Also in this reform which we are asking you - which you have in the text on this item on the agenda of the plenary - we propose to enrich Rule 20 of the Rules of Procedure by adding that only by strictly using this formula of the new Rule 4.2 which we are proposing will the full status of Member be acquired. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is in addition to another series of initiatives by the People's Party, of which I would like to highlight the letters of reconsideration and warnings to the Bureau and, in particular, the application for amparo before the Constitutional Court - which you know of - born at the time of another ominous session of compliance in the previous parliamentary term. And another remedy of amparo, which we have already announced that we are going to propose, which will take place on the basis of the facts that took place here, precisely in this House on 3 December last. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Group of the European People's Party we respond with these initiatives to the request of millions of Spaniards who followed the Compliance Plenary and were suspended, astonished, like all of us, at what they were seeing and listening to that day in that Compliance Plenary. And we were asked, ladies and gentlemen - yes, you will certainly have asked the same question, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group - how it was possible that here in Congress, in the seat of the representation of the Spanish people, the lack of respect hides its width between these benches and the attack on the Constitution, rule of rules, was so blatant and so sober; no one understood that on the part of the President those contempts were not interrupted to the constitutional order and that how it was possible that a compliance with the Constitution would be good when, simply, what was being sworn was to destroy it. It was so logical, ladies and gentlemen! Listen to the people, ladies and gentlemen, for the people are wise. And what a reason he is! These are arguments, if I may, as high as the Mulhacén, the Veleta or the Alcazaba. If the meaning of the words and the mandate of the highest interpreter of the Constitution are not respected here, what weight are we to legislate by demanding compliance with the rules, ladies and gentlemen? How can a Member not be required to do what a judge or official is required to do when he or she is complying with the Constitution and takes that step in his or her life so decisive that it is to defend the general interest and the interests of all Spaniards so that the State can function? We cannot create a spectacle, ladies and gentlemen, that embarrasses us all and all of Spain. Because, ladies and gentlemen, what we lived here last December 3rd in the Constitutive Session was dantesque, beyond what Dante Alighieri himself would have imagined. We protested in the People's Party - you saw it -; our president demanded respect, claimed law, claimed regulation, claimed sentence; our spokesman also intervened and demanded the same, but against all right and good understanding our just requests did not alter the passivity of those who procrastinated or collaborated with his inaction to consolidate the reproach. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all agree - we have done so in long debates here in Congress, in the Committees, in plenary - that we agree with the vast majority of us that we can have the ideas that we want to have and that we can defend those ideas with more or less vehemence or with more or less passion; we can be firmer or we can be more poignant, and with understanding or not, rightly or not, we all have to respect that plurality as the very essence of democracy, there we all agree. But what cannot be done, ladies and gentlemen, is disrespect for the Spaniards, respect for those who have brought us here, respect for Spain, its history, its rules and respect for the Constitution that we have given ourselves among all and democratic institutions. And also, why not say so, the respect for our parents, our grandparents and the great embrace that they gave for us to have lived in a society in peace, in progress, for forty years, with prosperity, giving ourselves a great embrace among all the Spaniards. All that respect has to be maintained in this House and in the session of obedience, and that is precisely what we are asking for today, ladies and gentlemen. One cannot abide by the Constitution without complying with it. Simply, one cannot swear by republics that do not exist. You can't swear on behalf of those convicted of the most serious crimes. And if you have to swear on the planet, you will be rehearsed at home or rehearsed in front of the mirror, but here you come to comply with the rules, to respect the Constitution and to respect Spain, ladies and gentlemen! Here you come to respect Spain! [[Applauds]] Many of your ladies and gentlemen will agree with me that the reality of things cannot be twisted, that the rules of Congress should be reversed as if nothing had happened at all; or that those of us who respect the rules and act diligently should be silenced in the face of such a challenge, that we should be quiet and that absolutely nothing should happen, that no one here should say anything or make proposals to amend that situation. I tell you that we are not going to be quiet, ladies and gentlemen, because, in the face of every challenge to respect and democracy, the People's Party proposes, the People's Party responds. We are not going to be the pusilanimous ones Dante in his Divine Comedy placed in the lobby. Therefore, we are not going to stand still, we are going to be on the front line, at the head of the defense of constitutional values, leading constitutional Spain, which is what the Spanish ask of us, ladies and gentlemen. And this, which this government has given rise to, although sometimes it seems, is not a divine comedy like Dante's, it is something very serious, ladies and gentlemen, it is seeing us all of Spain; it is something very serious, we represent all of Spain. It is something we have to work on, that we work every day with a great deal of dignity and seriousness. But note that what happens here is that in this very serious task there are people, such as the principal president, who suffers from the most basic principles and seems not to change for this reason, is the one who has the toughest face than his own name, who is able to come to power for the first time with the lie of an unjust motion of censorship based on his own lie, and a second time by deceiving his own bosses, by asking his own insomnia with pacts he never confessed to dreaming. You can't blow and sip at the same time, ladies and gentlemen. And there will be no moral relativism or cervical head that will convince the People's Party of it. You can't lie, let alone repeat the lie in this House. The president-in-charge of Venezuela cannot be recognized and, at the same time, he is the head of the opposition. You can't catalogue lies as details. You cannot agree with those who say here, from this very rostrum - and you have heard it - that Spain cares about a curse, you cannot even allow it to continue in the Journal of Sessions such barbarity, because our own dignity is at stake and the honour of all Spaniards is undermined. [[Rumors]] Madam President, I shall conclude. Ladies and gentlemen, after what we have been living here this past week it may seem that the meaning of words has already lost its seat in this House; or after the seven and a half lies of the past plenary - we are still trying to locate the half truth - lies that have been impudently degraded in detail by the deceiver, after all this it may seem that words do not matter, that only power matters. The iron law is assumed, ladies and gentlemen, and sometimes it causes some hopelessness, the same thing that sometimes happens when it may seem that the lie comes out victorious or pardoned by that naphthaline that may be the covenant of insomnia. None of this is going to happen, ladies and gentlemen, because that is why we are here, to propose initiatives like this, to be the voice of millions of Spaniards.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u10	Mr. Rojas, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u11	I'm done right away, Madam President. And the truth will win because, as Cicero said, in the end everything is known and everything is known. Ladies and gentlemen, those who won with the lie will lose by the lie. Here is this initiative that would surely have subscribed many of your ladies and gentlemen, I go further: that they surely share many of your ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. This initiative is not against anyone, it is for everyone, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u12	Thank you, Mr. Rojas. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I speak to express my support for the proposed reform of the Congressional Rules of Procedure concerning the manner in which the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution is to be given. I consider it essential to specify the scope of an individual act that only takes a moment to accommodate the formality of a session whose solemnity cannot be dismantled and whose public impact requires an adjustment in the behaviour of all its participants. It should be recalled that on 30 November 1989 a resolution by the then President of Congress, Mr Félix Pons, pointed out that the solemn act of compliance with the Constitution must be carried out with a ritual formula, simple, unequivocal and equal for all. Let me speak from the veteranship of almost four decades linked to politics, in which I have been a participant in the City Hall of my hometown, in the General Assembly of the Principality of Asturias, in the Senate and here in Congress, of a long dozen constitutive sessions with their corresponding ceremonial to perform oath or promise to fulfill and comply with the Spanish Constitution. If I have learned something from solemnity, not without emotion, which initiates a municipal mandate or an autonomous or national legislature, it is that democracy consists above all of a matter of forms, from beginning to end. This afternoon this regulatory change is very rightly proposed, because the last constituent sessions of this House have broken the forms in the most important act of an elected office, the oath or promise for the full acquisition of the status of MP. I remind you that we are talking about a necessary and inescapable requirement, the fulfilment of which, I would like to stress, does not in any way limit the ideological freedom, the right to political participation or the plural representativeness of a great democratic society such as the Spanish one. It is appropriate to try to cover any regulatory gap in order to avoid in the future the violation of the rigorous ritual of oath or promise by persuasion around the main act for which the elect is called, which is nothing other than to acquire his full status as a Member. The last plenary sessions of the last four previous legislatures, including this one, in which in the Chamber there have been many formulas of constitutional compliance, with variopintic, strambotic, panderatic, some of doubtful taste and others with expressions that in themselves constitute an attack on our main symbols and institutions. A revolt, in short, against the essence of national sovereignty, of which we are depositaries, and respect for our legislative framework, of which the Spanish Constitution is precisely a guarantee so that all who are here can defend our ideas, even antagonistic, even contrary to the system that allows us to occupy each of the seats and to have ample and generous resources to carry out freely the political work for which the citizens have chosen us. Looking at what is being done outside Spain, it should be noted that in all established and historical democracies there is no loophole in the rite for the taking of possession of its members. The oath or promise shall be read or pronounced without any alteration or addition being permitted; otherwise, the condition shall not be acquired. Finally, in order to provide greater legal certainty, the wording of this reform, proposed by the People's Group and defended by Mr Rojas, for article 4 and for the 20th of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress, requires regulation of the manner in which the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution is to be given, and my vote will be in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u14	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u15	Good afternoon. In 1987, in a small village in the Maresme, in El Masnou, the councillor of a very small party that hardly knew anyone at that time and which was called CUP, swore his office in the following way: I promise to serve the interests of the people and to work for the national i social liberation of the Catalan countries. At that time he was charged with the denunciation of the People's Alliance and that oath was declared null and void. However, two years later - the date of 1989 has already been quoted - the deputies of Herri Batasuna in this same House, Mr Jon Idígoras, Mr Itziar Aizpurúa and Mr Ángel Alcalde, promised as a legal imperative. By the way, HB's fourth deputy at the time, Iñaki Esnaola, could not attend because he recovered from the wounds of having been shot, an attack that also cost the life of the elected Josu Muguruza. You, who often talk about the pain of the victims and often use it, would also do well to consider all - all - victims of conflict. The case is that the oath of legal imperative was not accepted, as has been said, by the President at the time of the Courts, but later by the Constitutional Court. You, who tend to leave the courts against political opposition, would do well in this case to read a sentence that ended up saying that the requirement of oath or promise is a survival of other cultural moments and other legal systems to which the use of ritualized rites or verbal formulas was inherent; a sentence, by the way, which did not like Mr Felipe González at that time either. You are now bringing about a reform of the Rules of Procedure that wants to return to other cultural moments or to other legal systems, but what we believe is that it bothers you that some of us are represented here. One day they say they must throw us out because we go to Congress or not, and another day because we swear or not, but in the background what bothers them is what we represent: reds, separatists, feminists, all that against what one day their people rose up. Even if you don't like it, here we are; the people who voted for us have the same legitimacy as those who voted for you and if you don't like it you will have to endure. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u17	Madam President, Eskerrik asko. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This debate on how to comply with the Constitution is an issue involving political and legal considerations, but I believe that in essence it is a debate in which common sense should prevail first and foremost, because the issue comes from before. Let's start at the beginning. The oath of compliance with the Constitution is entangled with a millennial tradition of acceptance of constituted power that has been practiced at least since the Middle Ages, and this is what we are talking about today in the middle of the 21st century, we are talking about complying with the Constitution. And what is it to abide by the Constitution? I'm going to give you the definition of SAR. This is the oath or promise to keep and keep the Constitution as a fundamental rule of the State. Save and make save. I do not find anything new if I say that there are political representatives in this Chamber - by the way, we are growing in number in each election call - that we do not share certain articles of this Constitution at all. Therefore, the reasons why we avoid carrying out the act of non-methical compliance, which is what the reform is proposing, are understandable or if they do not at least agree with me that they know why we do so. This matter comes from afar, as far as the highest courts have already ruled twice on the issue and, despite the fact that there is jurisprudence on this issue, the People's Party has preferred to avoid it and to act as if it were not. Already in 1990 the Constitutional Court gave effect to compliance on the basis of legal imperative of the deputies of Herri Batasuna, as has just been pointed out, who had been denied the status of deputies for this reason. Thirty years ago. I see here some Member who had not yet been born on that date. The arguments are well known, so I will not go into the basis of the judgment, but I do want to underline something that the court pointed out. He said that the deputies in question were representatives of those who elected them on the basis of a legally lawful political programme and that fidelity to that political commitment could not be impeded by imposing a concrete formula to comply with the Constitution. I think that here is the crux of this question, which is often lost in this totum revolutum that is formed when this issue is addressed, because there are things that are well explained from the simplest perception, which is that of the facts. The facts, ladies and gentlemen, are that all of us, Members of this Congress, have been elected after an electoral process and after a campaign in which we each compete with their candidates, with their programmes and with their ideas. Ours is a commitment to social justice and the Basque Republic. A campaign in which citizens were able to choose between different projects and which culminated in the day they went to the polls to give their vote. I do not think it is necessary to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the support that our group and our project received and those that received yours; I think you remember them quite well. Subsequently, the Electoral Board proclaimed us elected candidates and issued the Minutes of the Member of Parliament that accredits our status. These are the conditions that should be met by a candidate to become a deputy or senator-elect: to gather the sufficient number of votes for it and to be recognized by the Electoral Board in that way. However, the formulation of having to abide by the Constitution without additions is now being put forward again, even when it is already established by case law that in the case of public offices demanding the strict formula 'yes, I swear' or 'yes, I promise' is an excessive rigourism that attacks the right of participation in public affairs that also holds the elected ones - and also their voters - that defend ideals and political objectives other than those proclaimed in the Constitution. That a Member is so because he has been elected and proclaimed as such without any obligation of oath or promise of the Constitution was recently determined also by the Advocate General before the Court of Justice of the European Union in the question referred for a preliminary ruling on the immunity of Oriol Junqueras. To this opinion and in the same vein followed the forceful rapprochement of European justice to the Supreme Court. The proposal we are debating today is in the opposite direction. Europe to one side, in one direction, and Spain to the other. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of Euskal Herria Bildu promised the office as a legal imperative and until the creation of the Basque Republic. It is an idea that comes to reflect precisely what we are: independenceists and republicans. We are independentists who aspire to build a republic, our republic, and to live in harmony with the rest of the nations, as well as with the Spanish State and its citizens, although this is very difficult for you to understand. Those who voted for us, the more than 275 000 people who did, gave us their vote precisely so that our commitment would be that, and that is why we are here and we are representatives of popular sovereignty who think so. To be clear, voters elect Members, not aspirants to Members, and their decision expressed in the vote cannot be subject to subsequent validations that should never replace popular sovereignty, the basis of the democratic system. On the other hand, I believe that citizenship knows perfectly well that promising loyalty or swearing loyalty in the performance of laws does not better guarantee compliance with those laws if it is promised without further additions or if it is done with other statements. The fact that a Member promises or swears in the Constitution does not add value to political activity. Because how many of the corrupt politicians who have sprung up like mushrooms in that shame Spain have sworn to comply with the laws? Everyone who had to do it. From another perspective, the PP's proposal is also inconsistent with its own trajectory, because the People's Party, when it was in the government and held the presidency of Congress, admitted the formula of the legal imperative even with additions similar to those that it is currently rejecting. The truth is...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u18	Mrs. Aizpurua, I would have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u19	Immediately; two paragraphs. There are violations of human rights, there are violations of the Constitution that do not matter to you at all; you do not mind cutting rights, etc. All that matters to you is that the independenceists embrace the Constitution, that Constitution that proclaims the indissoluble unity of Spain. We will vote against the proposal put forward by the People's Party, but in any case we consider - let us say - that the best option is not to reformulate or change what is written, but simply to completely eliminate it from the Rules and the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime, to withdraw that article which obliges to swear or promise the Constitution. I repeat, we shall vote against it. Let us hope that this House will bear in mind today that we must not take a step backwards in the area of democratic freedoms and rights. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, let us know that the independenceists will continue to come to this Chamber to defend our sovereignist project, our country and its people. And we will do so, as we said in that plenary: Euskal Errepublika lortu art, until the Basque Republic is created. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u21	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been experiencing the political and legal controversy over the validity of the use of compliance formulas for going beyond the provisions that regulate it, which, as we all know, are the Loreg, together with the Chambers' Rules of Procedure, which set out the formal requirement that we Members and Senators must fulfil for the full exercise of the role of Member or Senator, with the particularity that in this House their Rules of Procedure had to be supplemented by a 1989 Presidency resolution on the concrete way to comply. As all honourable Members know, the question of the validity of the formulas used has not been outside the Constitutional Court, as has already been pointed out. This has been pronounced in various judgments, in particular with regard to this House in judgment 119/90 and with regard to the Senate in 74/91. However, despite having or still having sufficient regulation, the Regulations, and a certain and repeated constitutional doctrine on the issue, the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group seeks to put an end to - in its opinion - bad practices which expressly preaches used formulas that pervert - in its opinion - the meaning of the act of compliance and is, in a veiled way, a criticism of the various presidencies of the House for allowing them when they occur. Our parliamentary group does not share this perception of things, so it will not support this initiative, nor does it share the proposed measures. The initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group, as I have already said, seeks, on the one hand, to establish a single alternative binomial as a strict formula for compliance, which, finally, as I will explain later, does not achieve by its very constitutional impossibility and which ends up implicitly recognizing; and, on the other hand, it seeks, as I said, a narrow marking on the part of the Presidency of the House of the exercise of its exclusive assessment of the validity of the formulas used and in which no recourse can be made to the Bureau. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is, in our view, the ultimate purpose that encourages the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group and that we do not share either. With regard to the claim to establish a single and strict formula for compliance, I would like to point out that there is no constitutionally rigorous understanding as a formal requirement that prevents the addition of expressions in a modal or causal sense, provided that they do not imply a condition, reservation or limitation of the regulatory formula. This is because the liberatis favour which presides over the interpretation of the scope of the legal or regulatory requirements established for the exercise of fundamental rights acquires particular prominence in relation to the fundamental right of participation and democratic representation recognized in article 23 of the Constitution, functions which, together with ideological freedom and political pluralism, reinforce the idea of a flexible interpretation of formal requirements. Any other interpretation in an excessively rigoristic or ritual sense of compliance with the requirement would mean that deputies and, by extension, those who elected them, would be prevented from adding expressions to the regulatory formula representative of their ideology by which they were voted, even different from those of the Constitution itself. This, as I said to you, would imply a lack of knowledge of the values and constitutional principles, provided that their formulation does not distort or vary their content itself. Ladies and gentlemen, without prejudice to what has been said so far, our parliamentary group believes that the fastest way to put an end to this controversy would be to abolish compliance, because although it is not contrary to the Constitution, it does not impose it either, and according to the same judgment 119/1990, this is a regulatory legislative decision and, therefore, as legitimately, it is constitutionally to call it anachronistic or inappropriate or an empty shell, which is also what this parliamentary group considers it to be. Thus, the statutory obligation to comply does not create any obligation under the Constitution. The duty to comply with the Constitution and to be subject to it is the result of what is already laid down in article 9.1, which states that all citizens and public authorities are subject to the Constitution. Therefore - and I quote literally from the Constitutional Court - for purposes of subjection to the Constitution, the compliance of deputies during their inauguration is irrelevant. On the other hand, the nature of compliance we know is a formal requirement, because it has also been said by the Constitutional Court, so its formal nature leads to the possibility of Members lending it throughout the session being kept open; even their eventual non-compliance does not deprive them of their status. Nor is there any provision in the regulations of either House for any member of this or the other House to formally announce his decision to disengage from compliance or to explain, within or outside this House, the reasons or even conditions for which he assumed it. Nor do the regulations provide for the possibility of taking any action in respect of those Members or Senators who carry out actions which, in general or in the majority opinion, may be considered incompatible with the submission or respect for the Constitution, unless they may fall within any of the grounds laid down in articles 21 and 22 of this House and 18 of the Rules of the Senate, in which case their suspension or even loss of status of the Member or Senator shall be carried out, but the cause of such effect shall not be the breakdown of the acquired compliance, but the conduct established and violated in those articles. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, these considerations taken almost literally from the same Constitutional Court and the controversy that usually surrounds the constitutional sessions of this House are those that lead us to reflect on the possible desirability of ending the abolition of the requirement of compliance. Without prejudice to that, we shall vote against the initiative. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u22	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u23	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The proposal you are bringing here today is very pertinent and we will vote in favour. It is worrying to have to change the rules of Congress because some deputies promise or swear to burden themselves with the rule of law. These failed deputies militate in nationalist parties, parties that have won their many seats with few votes, thanks to an unjust electoral law that neither the Socialist Party nor the People's Party want to change because it benefits them. In previous legislatures there were takeovers that we can call picturesque, but they were few and exceptional. Today they are offensive and more numerous than usual. There are 'promising for good'; there are 'promising for happiness'; there are even 'promising for people', as if the rest of the deputies represented moss, but, well, they are acceptable. There are very ambitious promises; there are promises 'for the planet'. I, who would like to make a promise in such a global constituency, would suggest that it do so through the multiverse, because it can leave thirteen dimensions outside its constituency and it would be catastrophic for those intentions. But the type of compliance that brings us here today is the one that promises to end our rights and freedoms, the one that affirms sovereignty different from that of the Spanish people. The representatives of the nationalist parties, in their obediences, affirm things like that in Spain there are political prisoners. That is the same as saying that judges prevail, that in Spain people are persecuted for their ideas or that we are not directly a democracy. They also speak of exiles, referring to fugitives for misrepresenting, prevaricating and sowing hatred in our country. These Members express their willingness not to abide by our constitutional order and to work to destroy it, which will be here as the Catalan or Basque Republic arrives; yes, they will be charging. Is that all right with you? Do you think it is normal for Members to come here and say that the country is being loaded? It is true that following on behalf of the Catalan countries is, in geographical terms, the same as doing so by Narnia, Hogwarts, Gondor or the Endor Moon. But it's not innocent nor is it a clearly fantastic expression. Romantic nationalisms are born of the myth: they know it is a lie, but they will repeat it until it sounds familiar to their ears and seems to them a truth. Here, some Members who promise office are saying that they are working to end our system of rights and freedoms, and the presidency of the House does nothing. And the so-called social democracy - supposed - smiles with an enthusiastic look from their seats when all this happens. You, gentlemen of the PSOE, betray the Social Democracy when you swallow all this. You, assuming that this is said in this House, admit that you come here to work for the breakup of Spain. And it is that you have a fundamental problem, it is that you believe that Spain is an invention of the right, as if to the right it had ever come up with such a good idea. Spain is, above all, everyone's common effort to ensure that no one is left behind. Spain is our set of rights and freedoms. Spain is health, it is education, it is science, it is innovation. Spain is all that too. When you obey here saying that you are going to work for secession, you are also saying that you are going to work against the welfare state, which is not something that is in the stones. The welfare state is the result of the efforts of all Spaniards. If that solidarity is broken, the rights will be less. And you assume, with a stunning normality, to give wings to secessionism with strong economic reasons. The former socialists admit that it is said here: as in my territory there is more money, because I leave and I come here and I swear. And you, so normal. The PSOE has committed a class betrayal - they are already doing it a couple or three of legislatures -, has abandoned the class struggle and has embraced the struggle of the postal code. The PSOE is full of mouths saying they have 140 years of history, but stop yelling at it and read it. Read Indalecio Prieto, read Negrin or read Largo Caballero, read what they said about Companies or the lehendakari Aguirre, and stop hugging these parties that betrayed the Socialist Party and also betrayed its permanently quoted - but I think unknown - II Republic. In this case, read Azaña and see what he also said about the nationalist parties that are so enthusiastic today. But it doesn't matter to you, because it serves you to settle in the Moncloa. Of Podemos I will not talk much, because they have the same doctrinal and ideological body as Godzilla and because they now aspire to fossilize themselves in a armchair. I will only tell you one thing: I remember when you looked excited, with an almost candid eye drop, the hugs you gave from the Republican Left to the then Deputy Diego Cañamero, whom you consider a representative of Andalusian farmers. I differ as to the concept, because the farmers I know, when they go to a supermarket, they go to buy, and Cañamero went to something else: But, well, I'm going to buy the concept. When the deputies of Esquerra embraced Cañamero, those fraternal hugs that you were enthusiastic about contained all the supremacy and xenophobia that the Catalan nationalism cherished. I am Andalusian and I read very carefully what some militants or Esquerra's offices have said about us, and I quote literally: These immigrant children who snort glue in Catalonia come from other parts of the state, such as Ceuta or Andalusia. This is how my son and the sons of all the deputies of Andalusia speak in Esquerra. The Spanish left, PSOE and Podemos, has left the Socialist International to embrace the nationalist international. It is neither left nor wants to be Spanish, it wants to be Government, whatever it is, but Government, at the expense of whatever it is and of the rights of whoever it is, but Government. Perpetran, lords of PSOE and Podemos, an unprecedented class betrayal. They'll pay you face-to-face in the future. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you are bringing here a proposal which we consider necessary and which defines a serious situation in this country. Do not allow the narcissism of the acronyms to allow us to be united in those territories where it is necessary precisely to stop this type of oaths and promises; do not allow vanity to allow us to go in coalition in those places where it is truly necessary. It would be unforgivable for Galicia to be opened by a seat to all the theses that I am sketching here. And nationalists, I have a few words for you, because I have also thought of you. If you have that almost natural urge to break the law and treat us as inferior or unequal, if you can't avoid it, if you have to be different at all costs, we can set up a theme park with a stone cardboard parliament next door where you can proclaim republics of the length you want, where you can search for native Catalans and with blank textbooks so you can indoctrinate at ease: a kind of paradise that we could call Golpilandia. But here they come to work, that's what they pay for. Make laws, ensure the rights of all Spaniards and respect the laws; respect them. I'm on my way, President. Gentlemen of the PSOE, if you don't care about Spain, if you only care about your salary, if you don't care about your country and only care about your party because it puts you in, I warn you of one thing: no party survives your country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rojas, I would have preferred it to have been someone else, and I tell you with all due respect and consideration. Maybe with Cayetana I would have felt more comfortable. Do you know what this is? : ears; they are ears of rice from my village, from Sueca; those produced in the Natural Park of the Albufera, Valencia; in Catalonia, in the Delta de l'Ebre; in Seville, in Isla Mayor; in Badajoz; in Aragon. [[shows a branch of ears]] Do you know what they're for? To eat. These ears feed farmers and feed us all. Today we ate an excellent paella in a dining room here. Of these ears you eat; of the reform of the Rules of Procedure, no, and that is what you do. Really, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, aren't you ashamed to present this? With so many things to present, with all the farmers appearing on the street, and you are bringing us a reform of the regulation? [[Applauds]] It's creepy, it's amazing. While you are taking a picture with the agricultural organizations today, last week you were voting in favour of imports of rice from Vietnam. [[Displays a poster reading: EU-Vietnam Free Trade Agreement]] Socialist Party, People's Party and Citizens voted in favour; and in VOX, in a monument to incoherence, one voted yes, another voted no and two did not know what they voted: they abstained. And then they go to the demonstrations and they take pictures with the farmers, but they allow them to import rice from Vietnam that will sink the prices of Valencian, Catalan, Extreme, Aragonese and Andalusian rice. Consistency? They're coming. The People's Party is bringing us the reform of the Rules of Procedure today, and what is the second thing they bring us? Venezuela! Venezuela; don't fail, Venezuela. Catalonia was missing, but they didn't have three today. Venezuela. You only use the Constitution when it suits you; when you have to talk about rights, you forget the Constitution. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, when are you going to grow up, when are you going to grow older, when are you going to start bringing in serious things, things that matter to citizens, things that are to eat? Or, on second thought, keep bringing these things; from there to irrelevant there is only one step. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u26	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the democratic legitimacy of Members of Parliament comes from universal suffrage; this is what the most basic democratic common sense imposes, and it has recently been decided by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which has rightly said, as has already been shown, that citizens choose Members of Parliament, not candidates for Members, only if they overcome certain anachronistic formalisms. This is what has allowed President Carles Puigdemont and Councillors Comín and Ponsati to be MEPs today, and this is what will allow Oriol Junqueras to be able to exercise as Euro MP in the near future, whose representation has now been unfairly and unlawfully deprived, violating not only its political representativeness but that of the more than 700,000 citizens who voted for it. As has also been said, in our view, the promise of compliance with the Constitution is absolutely superfluous. There is an expression coined by Baltasar Gracián that says that compliance is the sum of fulfillment and lying; you can therefore abide by the Constitution and fail to comply with it, as is often done with many fundamental rights, or you can simply not abide by it and comply with it. Don't worry, because the rule of law already has mechanisms, the Constitutional Court already has powers, unknown in comparative law, that allow compliance with the Constitution to take effect, and, if not, quiet, that the Prosecutor's Office comes and refines it. It seems to us, therefore, to be absolutely superfluous, as the fact that we chose the Presidency and the Bureau of the House before we gave this assent to the Constitution shows, and it seems to me that no one is discussing the validity of their positions. The promise of obedience, therefore, seems to us absolutely superfluous and the oath directly unconstitutional: in a confessional state, swearing, whether on the Bible or on the Koran, is absolutely unconstitutional. But as the Constitutional Court has also recalled that we have a Constitution that is not militant, since the strictest constitutional compliance a Member, with the democratic legitimacy that it has, can be allowed to rise to this rostrum and say, without violating the Constitution, that it is not in conformity with its article 2, that it proclaims the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation; wet paper, by the way, because the day that a majority of citizens in Catalonia, the Basque Country, Navarre or León want to be independent there will be no Constitution that prevents it. Nor does it prevent that Constitution, which is not militant, from saying that we do not like article 1.3 when it says that the political system of the Spanish State is the parliamentary monarchy; it will be so while a majority of citizens of this country claim to do so. We shall therefore vote against your proposal, Mr Rojas, but I thank you for giving us the opportunity to rise to this rostrum and, from the strictest point of view of the Constitution, to finish my speech by saying: visca Catalunya liure! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u28	Thank you, Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u29	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I did not expect my first speech as a Member of this House to address the very essence of belonging to it. Weak democracy, which seeks to prevent the results of the ballot boxes from reaching the seats of Congress. The recalcitrant right, the People's Group together with its small brother, the ultra-right of VOX, and the introducing group of the crisp and hatred in Catalonia, Citizens, appealed to the Congressional Bureau the different compliance formulas used and, again, to the Board of Spokespersons, which, again, validated them. This was followed by the announcement of an appeal to the Constitutional Court, the course of which we do not know at the moment. Impatient, therefore, the Members of the People's Party, or eager for the evidence that they can provide in their favour, bring us today the reform of the Rules of Procedure so that only the formulas that they propose are valid, and ask this House to stand down. Great work in favour of plurality and freedom of expression, I must say. I could simply describe them as a party of intolerant fascists, and I would not lack reason, but it would simply be the finding of facts that are well known by these Chambers. I could also end up in a barren legal debate over what the Constitutional Court has already argued in judgment 119/1990 of 21 June, so often cited and in such different ways understood or deliberately misinterpreted, because it must be deliberate not to understand a paragraph that reads: 'The deputies are representatives of the Spanish people considered as unity, but the mandate that each of them has obtained is the product of the will of those who elected them, determined by the presentation of a legally lawful political programme, in which the commitment to state publicly that only by legal imperative they comply with the Constitution may have been tacitly or expressly included. [[and as such must be held until there is a court decision against]] The fidelity to this commitment, which has no relation to the obligation arising from the supposed imperative mandate, does not, of course, exclude the duty of subjection to the Constitution which it imposes in its article 9.1, cannot be neither unknown nor impeded.' It could also ridicule your claim by proposing to extend your proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure to the political moment in which you appear to be living. This is provided for in article 27 of the 1834 Rules of Procedure: Do you swear allegiance, submission and obedience to the King? Do you swear to know yourself faithfully and loyally in the grave task you will perform, looking in all things at the greatest splendor of the throne and the best service to the State? And whoever is taking an oath, kneeling before the president and touching the book of the Holy Gospels with his right hand, will answer, "Yes, I swear." Continuously, the president will pronounce these words: If you do so, God will reward you and, if not, ask you. But no, you are more than another oath, the following: Yes, I swear loyalty to your excellence, the head of state, and fidelity to the principles of the National Movement and other fundamental laws of the Kingdom. This is the one used by today's Emeritus king, so constitutional he, on July 23, 1969. Poor Spain with these energetic representatives! [[Applauds]] But none of that matters to us today; what is important is what lies behind the reform of the proposed regulation. You know that there are more than two million people in this State who do not feel involved or concerned by the Constitution. They also know that we are diverse the parties that we go to the elections precisely by representing this position and, contrary to custom - not the laws - we do so with an electoral program that we intend to comply with and with scrupulous respect for the will expressed by our voters. Therefore, the implication in this proposal is the will to humiliate, forcing an oath or promise that they know is inconsistent with our ideology, when not the expulsion from the House of those who have been democratically elected with electoral programmes that they do not like, yes, but that are not less democratic. Does being independent and Republican make us less deserving of being represented? Is it one of the civil-death assumptions regarding political rights? [[Rumors]] And this, do you want to apply it to more than two million people? Look, be clear and propose that the independenceists, Republicans and the rest of the dissidents simply cannot vote, and do not forget, cannot be elected. Treat us exactly as they think we are: subjects without rights if we don't embrace their truth, people who don't deserve to have a voice or a political existence. And if this is not so, please spare us the Byzantine discussions and without any real interest, except for you to appear as defenders of your homeland pride and rancio. Therefore, I will tell you that our compliance is not the result of a spontaneous decision, but simply the will to meet a requirement that the law imposes on us to obtain a result - that of achieving the full status of Members - which is the one directly dear to us and to our constituents. And it is not its own harvest, but directly copied from the Constitutional Court in its architectural 1990 judgment. They have quoted Dante Alighieri; also said Mrs Cayetana Alvarez de Toledo in a television debate that we abandoned all hope. But they have understood nothing; hope is what guides us, hope is what we have in our project to build a truly democratic, free and just republic. And for that reason I will end as I began the legislature: for the freedom of political pressure, for the freedom of exiles and until the completion of the Catalan Republic, for the legal empire, yes, I promised. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Vallugera. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u31	Thank you, Madam President. It seems that Spain is constituted in a social and democratic state governed by law, which promotes freedom, equality, justice and political pluralism as superior values of the legal system! Screen. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And that, moreover, is supposed to link all of us in this House and those of us who have complied with it. [[a lady MP: Everyone, that's it!]] But it seems that this is not exactly the case, it seems that the principle of political pluralism, which is that of any democracy that is to be called democracy itself, is being called into question, because the object really, what we are discussing here, is how many Members are left in this House, how many people are not willing to unconditionally adhere to what is supposedly contained in this text. It is a lie that it is the adherence to this text because it is being presented by a party that was convicted in the Constitutional Court for making a fiscal amnesty against the Constitution and against the progressive distribution of taxes so that they pay more than they have. [[Applauds]] It is an exercise of hypocrisy after all; an exercise of hypocrisy that we could see on the day of the constitution of the Courts. And we could see it when there was a moment of final hooliganism to see who was able to applaud the head of state more to show greater adherence to the Crown. Frankly, it is not on the agenda that we discuss whether or not to elect the Head of State, but be aware and respectful that no more than 130 Members of Parliament call themselves monarchists in this House. [[Applauds]] I think that should make us understand what we're discussing here today. We are discussing that Members of this House must be removed from this House, and that is why we must take the ruling of the Constitutional Court and tear it apart, which is what the PP group is proposing, because that is what is brought to this House: we are going to charge ourselves with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, because we do not like the Constitutional Court to say that freedom of expression must prevail and that the motivation that every Member has to comply with the Constitution is part of his ideological freedom. What is being raised here is an inquisitorial position that seeks to adhere to it is not well known what, since in the end those who say it are the same who deny that our country is a plurinational reality, as the constitutional text says, which also says that this country consists of regions and nationalities that have the right to self-government, but come up here to deny that right of the peoples of our country. Honestly, go fuck your cousin. [[Applauds]] It is rather curious to hear a supposed militant adherence of parties that have already come up here to say that the Constitution must be sworn in and complied with in its own terms, but that they do not recognize the rights outside. They are in the Constitution, but they do not recognize each other either, because in the end the problem they have is that they do not recognize our country; they do not recognize Spain; they do not recognize that we are a diverse, plural people who have different expressions, different languages and institutions that are fundamentally based on popular sovereignty. You are trying to bring us back to another time; you are trying to follow the path of the handbags; you are trying - and you are not going to achieve your purposes - to end the most basic principles of democracy at the time when you are questioning the result of the popular will expressed in the ballot boxes. They are no longer just against the Constitutional Court; they are also against the Court of Justice of the European Union. What's the big deal? Everything, whatever it takes so far as to bring forward its tactical positions in a debate that the only thing it intends to do is to confront the peoples of Spain. [[Applauds]] Look, those who sell public housing to vulture funds are not patriots, they are vendettas; they do not come to defend the Constitution. [[Rumors]] Those who come here to pose, or hide it in their electoral programs, that the public social security system must be handed over to financial institutions are not patriots, are vendettapatrias. And we are going to tell you again and again: change the Rules of Procedure all you want, but we and we are not going to give up our aspirations, we are not going to give up our dreams or our hopes. What do you think, that because you are trying to impose a regulation on us we are going to renounce our dream of a plurinational and solidarity republic in our country? They are wrong, they are wrong and they will be wrong again and again every time they try to impose the anti-democratic criteria of those who brought here the person responsible for the shooting of the church of San Francisco in Vitoria, who has not yet responded for their crimes before the courts. [[Applauds]] I'll give you an idea of how the country is built. The homeland is built by recognizing the plurality of our people, saying that the accounts have to have our people inside, saying that there can be no democracy without social rights, no civil rights and no political rights, and recognizing the plurinational character of our country and our people. Do you know what Lluís Companies said in this House when the right to Catalonia's self-government was recognized? Long live Spain! [[Several Members: Long live!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u32	Thank you, Mr. Mayoral. Mr Garriga Vaz de Concicao has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the VOX Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour of this reform of the Congressional Rules of Procedure on how to take an oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, and we are going to do so because it is a matter of common sense, which unfortunately we are seeing is quite absent during the last few months in this House. It is common sense because those who do not comply with the fundamental rule that we have all given ourselves, the Constitution, should in no case acquire the status of deputy. It is unfortunate that we have to be here today to open the debate on the reform of the Rules of Procedure or what we have had to do in our parliamentary group, which has been to go to the Constitutional Court asking for amparo to declare these forms - to put it mildly - in which some have abjured - in fact - of the Constitution. It is unfortunate that we have to go to the courts to ensure that the provisions of the Rules themselves and the Constitution are applied, because all these efforts would be unnecessary, ladies and gentlemen, if the various presidents of the Congress of Deputies had fulfilled their obligations or, failing that, if the legislators had taken the necessary steps. For example, Mr Félix Pons did so, which perhaps sounds like the Socialist Group, although he may have been deliberately erased from his memory by shame, who knows; but it is good to recall that exemplary attitude, that exemplary attitude of the former President who expelled those representatives of ETA from the House, denying them the full status of MPs for failing to comply with the regulatory form. Subsequently, in effect, the Constitutional Court, months later, defended these deputies. However, and it is important to stress this, the court made it clear to me that the answer in no case could - and especially those Members who have come up here before - condition or limit compliance with the 1978 Basic Law. [[Applauds]] Since then and with different presidents of the Congress, both the Socialist Party and the People's Party, we all have had to contemplate how they acquired the full status of deputies who had no or other object to liquidate the sovereignty of the Spanish people. For years, we have witnessed, with shame, direct witnesses of that constant permissiveness enjoyed by the declared enemies of democracy, who have not hesitated to use the democratic machinery for the sole purpose of overthrowing it. That is why they will count on our vote in favour. Our parliamentary group will always be defending constitutional order and legality. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to reflect, I ask you to go a little further. The reform of the Rules of Congress does not cease to be a patch - it is a patch - as well as perhaps the request for amparo that we have submitted as a group before the Constitutional Court which, if it goes on, would actually correct this serious anomaly, but let us not forget that in no case would it solve the problem that Spain suffers because of separatists and the evil doing of past governments that did not fulfil its obligation to fulfil the constitutional mandate. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the only way to restore constitutional order throughout the national territory and to guarantee the principles of unity, equality and freedom on which all the great nations are based is irreparable and inexcusably due to the illegalization of the separatist parties. [[Applauds]] And in this House there are separatist parties that want to steal from the Spanish what is of all, to steal their sovereignty. They are racist, xenophobic parties, when they are not accomplices of murderers, because they have neither asked for forgiveness from the victims of terrorism nor collaborated with the security forces to clarify numerous murders perpetrated by the terrorist band ETA. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Yes, you can move from your rostrums now, ladies and gentlemen. In those seats there is a political group that appeals to the supposed native Catalans; in those others there is one whose founder, Sabino Arana, was a sexist, racist and homophobic, who said - I quote textually -: The vizcay is to walk handsome and manly; the Spanish or does not know how to walk or, if he is handsome, he is a female type. [[applause]] And those there, those five deputies, to shame all over Spain have not been able to condemn the 829 murders and hundreds of victims of the terrorist band ETA. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to go further. It is urgent to reform the existing Political Parties Act in order to illegalize all these parties whose only reason for being is the destruction of national unity and sovereignty. Political formations must be tools of participation, yes, and of expression of pluralism, of course, but they are not deceived, under no circumstances can they become a danger to the coexistence between Spaniards as the separatist parties have shown. We encourage the rest of the formations - and I conclude, Madam President - to join the VOX proposal because, Mr Baldoví, without defending the unity of the homeland, an economically and socially sustainable future is not possible. Thank you very much, Madam President, and live Spain! [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u34	Thank you, Mr. Garriga. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u35	Thank you, Madam President. In a democratic State that relativizes beliefs and protects ideological freedom, which enthrones political pluralism as one of its superior values and imposes respect on representatives elected by universal suffrage as powers emanating from the popular will, there is no consistent interpretation of the obligation to comply with the Constitution that pre-empts rigid formalism from any other consideration, because this violates the Constitution itself. The greater value of fundamental rights, in particular those of article 23, is forgotten and an exclusive interpretation of the Constitution prevails over another integrator. Mr Garriga, do not go to the Constitutional Court because this is what you say textually and literally one of your judgments and it is so clear and so forceful, that no further argument is needed to reject the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure brought to us by the PP. [[applause]] Moreover, it is so clear and so forceful that you, who claim to be such constitutionalists, should never have presented this initiative. [[Applauds]] What happens is that you've been able to have your nature, gentlemen of the PP. You're like Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde depending on whether they are in the government or the opposition, because, of course, with the Pastor of President here we could abide by the Constitution by political prisoners, by exiles and by the Catalan Republic - 12 June 2018 - and absolutely nothing happened, there was no crisis, was there, Mr Rojas? There was no crisis of values or principles, everything was perfectly fine; now, as soon as we govern the socialists, as soon as there is a socialist president, in this House everything is a scandal and half of the Members and Members must be thrown out because they are absolute unbelievers. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] I don't have much time. But I'm afraid your proposal isn't really about this. If you really wanted to improve the regulation, you would have worked on it a little more because what you are proposing is what is already there. You say you can only respond to the call with a 'yes, I swear' or 'yes, I promise', without adding anything that voids, limits or conditions your meaning. All right, like so far, like what is done now, but won't it be you who decide what is limiting, what is empty, or what is conditioning? No, no, this is done by the Presidency and, if you do not agree, go to the Constitutional Court. Ah, they've already gone and handed down a sentence against him! That's why I'm telling you it's not about this. [[Applauds]] That is why I say to you that the regulation is simply an excuse to raise something deeper, more ideological and above all more worrying, which is your permanent obsession to impose on us all and all your particular vision of things. Today, by skipping what the Constitutional Court says, what they want is to impose on us their exclusive and restrictive interpretation of the Constitution, making it narrower, smaller, wanting to expel from it all those who do not think like you. And this shows two things; yes, it shows two things, do not make gestures: one is that as much as you disguise yourself and come here to talk about plurality and diversity, you do not understand or accept the plurality and diversity of this country that enshrines our Constitution. [[Applauds]] And two, who have a serious problem, gentlemen of the right, as much as they claim to be liberal, have a problem: they are afraid of freedom. They are afraid of freedom and demonstrated to us, for example, last week by voting against the freedom of everyone to die with dignity. [[Applauds]] They're afraid of that freedom. In our democracy, forced compliance with constitutional legality is absolutely logical and does not prevent discrepancy. Are we obliged to abide by and comply with constitutional law? Of course, but we may disagree, we may not agree with part of it and by established procedures want to change it and this, whether you like it or not, is part of the very essence of democracy. Constitutional democracy is not a walled, closed and impenetrable city, to which we put obstacles in the form of rules so that no one can enter; no, on the contrary, it is a city with open doors that integrates, embraces and welcomes all those - whatever their personal motivations - who accept their rules and share their values. And when you put obstacles permanently you show that, as I say, you are afraid of freedom and do not trust the strength of our rule of law or the Spanish constitutional democracy. That is why they want to tie everything up with chains because, if they believed in their strength, as the Socialist Party believes, if they really believed in the profound value of the Spanish Constitution, they would defend legality - yes, like us - but they would also defend plurality and diversity. And that could never mean shutting the dissenter's mouth because then it would be democracy itself that would be gagged. That is indeed a crisis of values and principles. But it is very common in all of you to want to take exclusive ownership of what is common heritage: of Spain, of the flag, of the Constitution. It doesn't matter if they've been the last to arrive, or maybe because they've been the last to arrive and they don't want to be noticed much, what they're trying to do is to become their only flag and, of course, to be the only ones you have to throw everyone else out. Our dear and longing Pedro Zerolo has already told you: Your problem is that in your country and in your model of society I do not fit, but in mine you do fit. [[Applauds]] Therefore, when they defend Spain, they defend a uniformed Spain without the richness of its diversity and its singularities. They defend the flag to keep the stick to attack the political adversary. [[Rumors]] When they defend the Constitution, which they did not vote, they do so to impose their narrow, narrow and small vision. But don't think I'm surprised, this has always been so and possibly one of the deepest and most substantial differences between you and us, between the left and the right. You, when you come to the government, use the power to impose on us all your ideology...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u36	Mr. Lopez, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u37	Yeah, I'm done with this. ...to impose on us all their ideology, their religion, their family model, their way of dying, their closed reading of the Constitution. We use power to extend the freedom with which each and every one can choose what to think, what to believe, who to love or how to die. [[protests]] [[Rumors]] That is why we read the Constitution more openly. [[Applauds]] Mr. Díaz, yes, a hundred and forty years so and surely we will not survive our country. The problem is that your party won't survive yourself. As long as you're extinct, let me continue with the pride I feel for this difference between you and us. Stay with your desire to impose your narrow vision of life to remain alone and leave us... [[Rumors]] It is a good thing that the Constitution is being complied with, because if it were to show respect, tolerance and education, they would be left in the picture. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u38	Mr. Lopez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u39	You continue to want to impose your narrow vision of life, that we will continue to defend freedom to live together and continue walking together. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u40	We continue with the item on the agenda concerning the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in Common, repealing the maximum time allowed for the investigation in the Criminal Procedure Act. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today the debate on our proposal is to discuss the importance of the fight against corruption, because, indeed, Article 324 is an instrument at the service of its impunity. I therefore believe that today we could send a message to the public that we are able to agree on this vote, at least once. Because we agree - I believe - that corruption is a menace that corrodes, that destroys public services, the welfare state, democracy, which is incompatible with all that. Where there is corruption there is no democracy; there will be something else, corruption, but democracy does not. I therefore believe that we could row together on this very sensitive issue. It's too bad because I don't think the PP's gonna be there today, in that unit. To the political and media right it seems that it scandals him that Minister Montero has worked as cashier to get his studies out and instead quiets to the news that we have known this week of the plot Zaplana, of Aznar's right hand. We have to make a diagnosis, we have to think about where we came from. We came from a time when the boundaries between the public and the private, between the economic world and the world of politics had disappeared, where the People's Party had acted as a criminal organization that had been financed illegally on a continuous and systematic basis since its founding. That's what the courts say. That party turned corruption into a way of doing politics: they charged envelopes and went to the elections cheating while they told us that we had to tighten our belt, that there was no money, that we had to make cuts. Of course there was no money! It was in their pockets! It was in the Swiss accounts! It was in his box B! Of course there was no money! [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, M. Rajoy, said when we were on the street denouncing that situation, that there was no plot of the PP, that what was a plot against the People's Party. Do you remember that? At that time the gentlemen of the PP spoke as if they were victims of a plot, of a persecution, as if they were in the process of Kafka, as if they were K, when they were actually the Godfather or One of Ours, they were rather Al Pacino in The Godfather or Robert De Niro in One of Ours, because they worked like this, as in Scorsese's film. It is true that against those who were not one of their own it could be worth everything, from the illegal - we have known how the sewers worked - to the legal, such as this article 324 that they approved with the roll of their absolute majority against the criterion of the whole world, against the criterion of the lawyers, against the criterion of the prosecutors, against the criterion of the judges. If even Mrs Consuelo Madrigal, the chief prosecutor appointed by the People's Party government, warned of the dangers of this article that we intend to repeal today. And what did you gentlemen of the People's Party do? How did they react? As they do many times: defensive. They said that was populism, unfounded suspicions, demagogy. Not at all; four or five years later we have seen that, in fact, this reform served little. It was supposed to speed up processes. For the average duration of the instructions has been maintained; in fact, the waiting time has risen, people wait more time for judgment. On the other hand, we know a real effect: impunity; impunity for their cases. In fact, with this law you have tried to prevent the investigation of Box B and have managed to get two former presidents of the People's Party of the Community of Murcia, in the Pasarelas case and in the Lasalle case, to avoid the action of justice. I only quote these cases, but there are many more. That is the result, because, obviously, this reform was a network that was only designed to catch the sardines, not the sharks. It was what Rosa Luxemburg said, that justice distinguishes between unpunished sharks and guilty sardines, or what Galeano said, that justice only bites those who go barefoot. That's what happened with that reform, because it really didn't work for a small-scale or a subsistence crime, no; a small-scale can already come out with a court-on-call conviction. This reform served to shield the impunity for crimes that it is very difficult to investigate, crimes that you commit, white-collar crimes in which there is a plot that requires a lot of resources. In fact, many of the investigations that we have carried out these years Enrique Santiago - one of the lawyers who has worked most - and myself in the Pujol case, in the case of the illegal financing of Convergence, in the Bárcenas case, would not have seen the light and surely Urdangarín would not be in prison, and surely you would remain in the government. That's what happens, as Victoria Rosell said from here, when it's legislated from the dock of defendants. That's a shame. That is why it is a pride that the first law that we present in this legislature, which is presented by our Confederal Group, is precisely this. Our commitment to democratic regeneration is clear. We would like to express our appreciation to all the groups that are going to vote in favour of it today, including those on the right-wing bench. With Mrs Arrimadas we have many discrepancies; her party and ours have few things in common, but one thing we have in common is precisely that: the will to fight corruption, the will to fight for transparency. It is very well, Mrs Arrimadas, that we are voted on this law, but another good way to get rid of corruption would be not to run for election with the People's Party or not to give them the government, as they have done in Madrid, Andalusia or Murcia. If you really want to get away from corruption - and I am convinced that you want, I have no doubt -, it would be very good if you wanted to continue dealing with the People's Party, at least to require it to break ties with that past. My last speech was addressed to Mr Casado, but it is not; neither is Mr Aegean nor Mrs Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo or her purse. I could at least go to Mrs Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo's purse, but I will go to the other Members of the People's Party in the House. [[rumors]] If we talked about Venezuela you would all be here, Mr. Casado would be here too; today, as we do not talk about Venezuela, you are half of you. I was going to tell Mrs Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo, but I say this to you: today you have a unique opportunity to take the glove, to prove by the way of the facts that it was sincere the will of Mr Casado when he said he wanted to move on. Mr. Casado said not long ago that one cannot ask that there be no cases of corruption in his party or in the rest of the parties - isolated cases of corruption he said, to be precise - because that was like homicides and thefts: they exist. I disagree, first of all, because they were not isolated cases. It can be accepted that they are said to be isolated cases when there are one, two, three or a dozen, but they are 268 cases. When a case comes out, you can say it's a rotten apple, but 268 cases is the whole basket, forgive, it's the whole basket; it's not a rotten apple, it's a system, it's a way to work, as the sentences have said. [[applause]] The other question I wanted to tell Mr. Married is that of course you can. Do not resign, of course you may not have cases of corruption. You have had 268 cases; we, in the City Hall of Barcelona, in these five years we have had neither a conviction nor a judicial case. If you can, you can if you make prevention policies. For example, in the city hall, in the tenure of mayor who was mine, we raised a transparency agency, made an ethical code and created an unprecedented mailbox in Europe to protect alerters, so that people could report us and officials if they saw any crime or irregularities. Of course you can. If you don't put your hand in the box, other than not corrupt one, you can avoid cuts. If you don't put your hand in the box, you can devote your time to raising the interprofessional minimum wage, to raising the salary to officials, to updating pensions, to putting yourself in the service of the people, which is what we have done in fifteen or twenty days and what you haven't done in these ten years. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, today you have a golden opportunity to get rid of that legacy of corruption and to appear a little more credible to your constituents. If they don't, they're gonna be left alone. We, in partisan terms, win, because they are portrayed as what they are, but it is a weak favor for Spanish society, which would deserve us to go together in that. I sincerely believe that they would start to be credible and would be grateful to their constituents. I believe that until they take steps like this and vote favorably on proposals like this, they will hardly be able to re-govern one day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens. Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u43	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The truth is that I, picking up some of the things that the previous Member has said, would recommend to Citizens, who are so worried because in the candidacy of d'Unit Popular we do not work or come, that I look at the People's Party bench every time we talk about things that are not Venezuela or the unity of the homeland. It is also better to withdraw the salary from them than from the members of the CUP. [[Applauds]] We are going to abstain on this point. It seems to us to be an appropriate measure, but a measure without more. And I say that it seems to us simply because we understand that what is important in the area of corruption right now is the resources of the Administration of Justice. That is, if no more remedies are given to the courts of corruption investigation, it does not reach six months or six months; they do not give, there is too much work. And it is that those who need the Administration of Justice, from a perspective of law understood as a counter-hegemonic tool, are the poor, not the rich. The powerful already get things in other ways and, in terms of corruption, they pardon each other. We have seen this on many occasions. And we say this coming from the country of Adigsa, Mercury, Banca Catalana, Filesa, Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat, Treball, Turisme, Pallerols, Three percent, Palau, that is, from a country where corrupt practices have practiced them from many political spaces. And as a CUP, we have also been charged in the case of Catalunya Caixa, in the cases Inipro - PSC -, Bustos - PSC -, Three percent - Democratic Convergence of Catalonia -, since the famous sociovergency - that you know that in Catalonia has been a practice of government of many years - to the case of Aigües de Girona. We like to talk about llum and tachygraphs as a political practice of the independence left. We are going to be found in the fight against corruption, but we understand that the fight against corruption, as Mr Asens also said, is not a matter of a rotten apple, it is an endemic issue, it is a political practice of the system, and the political practice of the system is not only of the People's Party, but of the regime of 78, and here, in this House, there are parties that have played corrupt practices systematically and for many years. We have seen, for example, Mr Millet negotiate with Mr José María Aznar, negotiate with Mr Jorge Fernández Díaz or negotiate with Mr Michavila many of the things that were then transferred to Catalan politics. Therefore, we understand, and it is one of the key elements in our line of work in the Committee on Corruption, that the independence proposal also has to do with the fight against corruption, because what it raises is the articulation of another democratic system, of other institutions that are capable of governing themselves in a democratic and popular way. It is a proposal understood as the possibility of building a country that is not articulated in corrupt institutional practices, in institutional practices based on this network of political and economic interests that in the Spanish State has been one of the key elements of the Spanish brand. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u45	President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to put the matter before us, we believe that it is worthwhile to start by pointing out the sophisticated trap that was made with the previous reform, and it is that some - we must not deny it - have a certain ability to confuse ourselves and try to get dizzy, so that we look at our finger and stop staring at the moon that points to our finger. And it must be recognized that they did so with some success, as I say, in the previous reform, because the problem of justice is obvious that it has to do with slowness, and in the face of allegations of establishing the right to a fair trial without delay, which have been claimed historically since Seneca, which already said that nothing resembles both injustice and late justice, and subsequently by countless decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, they limited themselves to narrowing the procedural deadlines for criminal investigation, understanding that they responded to a problem. However, the moon remained there and remained clear. The problem was not to shorten a few deadlines - that was the finger - the problem was and is of material and human means. Compared to other European countries, we sincerely believe that the picture of the Spanish state would make anyone blush, because the solution comes from the need to have more means to investigate above all the major crimes - as has been pointed out a moment ago - that are committed about citizenship, and corruption is undoubtedly one of the biggest crimes that can be committed against the citizenship of any place. But in the Spanish state it is associated with the current economic model, because the great entrepreneurs, the factual powers, those who invite to stage, decide that politicians - or at least some of them - have to be pieces of chess moved in the heat of their own interests. That's where the lobbies work and that's where the rotating doors work. And now that I'm talking about revolving doors, I hope I'm not angry again. Being corruption an endemic evil in Spanish society, I think it is not exaggerated to say that if in antiquity you could cross Hispania jumping from tree top to tree top, you can now cross the Spanish state jumping from corrupt head to corrupt head. But these white-collar crimes do not concern all political groups alike. Surely some do not care because they cannot continue to feed the disgusting and fascist mantra of associating the immigrant-delinquent binomial. Here we are talking about great problems of the homeland, of great patriots of the Spanish state who continue to draw public money to fatten their profit accounts, and they are doing so with the collaboration of politicians and politicians who later see rewarded their business commitment with some position on some board of directors. And if they don't, if they don't because they can't associate that immigrant and delinquent binomial, they'll probably do it for issues like the ones that we've also been able to live here. Great moments gave us a past legislature on this, because even within the ranks of some political formation corruption camped to its width with B envelopes, with computer CPU units destroyed to hammers and things like that. The plot is evident, the more complex investigations, the corruptions and the even more complex entanglements, whether international, business or with tax havens with opaque accounts of sunny name. And above all, what we find is the lack of means. That was why it was suggested that more time was required, while crimes that tried the poor, those, were instantaneous. That is why we say to them that the great damage to the equation is, of course, justice, less time limits and less means. If we shorten the deadlines and continue to have the precarious means that we currently have, all we are doing is impoverish, and weaken justice. Therefore, proposing to extend the time limits may allow for a respite so that serious crimes related to organized corruption do not go unpunished - that is not bad - but it will also create a problem of slowness on other people who are accused for other reasons and who are entitled to a trial without delay. And that will be the case if we do not bet decisively on the incorporation of means, which is what we really understand to be the one that needs and needs justice in the Spanish State and that, unfortunately, we do not see how we would like to see in the proposal that we are being debated today. But in addition to this, the reform of this legal norm is nothing more than a small piece of a puzzle marked by the politicization of justice, marked from the very beginning in the appointment of the General Council of the Judiciary, which is a division among politicians so that they in turn decide who are the judges of the major bodies. This is also worrying and without this any step we take will remain in nothing. But it is also worrying that in this House, in the previous point and in any other point, we are being told about the effective and real equality of Spaniards before the law. It is said that all Spaniards are or are - even include us, generous who are - equal before the law. Not everyone. The first of the Spaniards, the king, is not equal before the law; he has the capacity to be unpunished. And I say that if your behavior is so exemplary, if you have nothing to hide, why does it have to be imputable? But we should also talk about the ideological problem that lies behind the justice system, because, as much as we want to look elsewhere, sentences to the Spanish State happen by the European Court of Human Rights, on many occasions related to cases involving Basque and Catalan independence and also freedom of expression. Therefore, we can say without packaging and without fear that he has a certain limp to punish freedom of expression and progressive and left-wing ideas, probably because of how the General Council of the Judiciary is composed. And probably because that is so, we are faced with a partial reform that is nothing more than a small cry in the desert, because what must be addressed is the reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act, which - let us not forget - is the nineteenth century, to adapt it to a criminal process with full guarantees of human rights in the twenty-first century. Thus, we would avoid ridiculous absurdities such as that of the trial of Willy Toledo for blaspheming against God and the Virgin. Waiting for the offended to become even ethereal in character, we send a solidarity greeting to Willy Toledo and we remember that the case of Willy Toledo today is no different, no matter how many of them are headed, than at the time of the dictatorship was carried out against a flamenco singer, José el Cabrero, who also had to go through the deprivation of liberty for blaspheming against God and the Virgin. [[Applauds]] As I have a word and I said that every time I found this gentleman turning my back on us I was going to make some allusion and I see that the wheels have not been put on - they will be expensive -, not even a rearview mirror, I ended up paraphrasing Joseph the Cabrero - since I see that this is changing -, which said that even if you give your back and don't see it, your voice is not stopped, neither back turns nor walls. [[Say words in Basque.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u46	Thank you, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u47	Thank you very much, President. Already during the proceedings, and even more so since the adoption of Law 41/2015, amending Law 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, to limit the duration of the investigation phase of criminal proceedings, the dispute over it has not ceased, and not only among the judicial professionals, as has been said here, but also in this Chamber. This change, as all of you will recall, came with the sole support of the absolute majority of the People's Party and the majority opposition of the justice professionals, who maintained and maintain that time limits cannot be shortened without increasing the human and material means of justice, as this results in false provisional dismissals so that instructions, statements of cases as complex without being so or unfounded accusations do not lapse, by failing to file files, except for the general reasons of the Prosecution Act, or to conduct out-of-date proceedings on the ground of nullity. It is also well known, because it has not ceased to be emphasized, that the reformer 324 causes the incongruity of separating the investigating judge from the direction of the latter by disabling him, in favor of the Prosecutor's Office, from the initiative of achieving more extended deadlines either by declaring the investigation complex or extensions of the ordinary, something that will, of course, contradict the role that the Prosecution Act gives the judge as sole director of the investigation. These reasons have led the Basque Parliamentary Group to support the reform initiatives under Article 324 to which I shall then refer, although we have also shown that the duration of the instructions cannot be unlimited, which would happen if the current 324 was simply repealed. The Basque Parliamentary Group considers that the time of the investigation, which is - let us recall - the inquisitorial phase of the process, must have a limited duration, even if it falls into a materially police State, which we consider unacceptable; the State must not have unlimited time to investigate the cases against the citizenry or to investigate general causes or, as is said in the United States, to go fishing day to see what is being fished. A sine die bench sentence - we have already said it on other occasions - would, in our view, constitute a violation of the principle of legal certainty and of the prohibition of the arbitrariness of public authorities, as stated in article 9.3 of the Constitution, also a violation of the fundamental right to a fair trial, article 24.2, and a breach of the procedural guarantees and fundamental rights of the parties covered by the European Convention on Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, we will repeat that we will have to strike a balance between an instruction of unlimited duration - something unacceptable, in our view - and deadlines that cannot be met, that before the reform of 324 were exempted without limit, but that are now permanent and that, sometimes, according to reports, involve lack of protection for the victim or impunity for the author. And this point of balance to which I referred must be achieved on the faithful of the human and material means of the organization and the technologicalization of the courts, since the relationship between means and organization and deadlines is undeniable and unavoidable. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by referring to the controversy that has arisen to date regarding initiatives to reform this precept in this House in previous legislatures - which I hope will not be repeated - and the higher context in which this precept is inserted, which is nothing other than the dean Criminal Prosecution Act of 1882. Thus, I must recall that in the XII Legislature, which was from July 2016 to May 2019, this same initiative, of a parliamentary group that responds to the same name as it has at this time, Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common, once taken into consideration by the plenary, was the object of a systematic parliamentary obstruction, mainly of the popular and citizen parliamentary groups, through sixty-two extensions that agreed to block its processing in the Commission and until the very moment of electoral progress with which that legislature ended. Finally, as I said to you, I must also remind you that Law 41/2015, which, among other measures, amended the now treatise 324, was an urgent and indefatigable measure while a new Code of Criminal Procedure was being drafted to replace the present one of the nineteenth century and is being erected today - it was already erected in 2015 - in an urgent task and that we trust this legislature can be carried out. Finally, as I have already said, we will vote in favour of the initiative. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u48	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u49	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I have had little in politics, but it is the second time that we have brought to this House the repeal of section 324 of the Criminal Prosecution Act. United We can present this bill for consideration. It was already raised in the XII Legislature, it was also raised in the XIII Legislature and it was processed as a proposal of my parliamentary group in the XII Legislature, but it did not seem that the lords of the People's Party, on the one hand, nor the lords of the Socialist Party, on the other, had too much interest in this proposal. [[The Lord]] I would like to tell you that in December 2019, as the first initiative of my parliamentary group, we presented a proposal for a law on comprehensive measures against corruption, much more ambitious than the mere repeal of Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which I will then detail a little above and which also includes precisely the repeal of Article 324, because it is, in the end, with this measure, even if it is partial, even if it is not ambitious, Mr de Podemos, to combat corruption. Yes, it is true that the Government of Mariano Rajoy, nine months before the end of the 10th Legislature, proposed the reform of article 324 of the Criminal Prosecution Act, which crystallized in Law 41/2015 of 5 October. Your text is really aberrant. It is made by those who have never put on their robes, by those who have never fought corruption, by those who have never sat in the courts of justice. In six months, Mr Matute, no crime is solved, neither of the rich nor of the poor; no crime because in six months it does not give time to instruct anything, except a mild crime, a fight of neighbors or something similar of a small scale. There's no time. And if the cause is complex we find ourselves with that eighteen-month period, which also does not give time, which is absolutely impossible. But the worst of all is not the deadlines, the worst of all is the consequence. Accusations cannot present evidence in the investigation. That is, gentlemen, the shackles, which should be placed in the hands of the investigators, are placed in the hands of the prosecution and are prevented from carrying out their work in the investigation of very serious facts, in many cases related precisely to corruption. I got melancholy and started looking at what I was doing in October 2015. I checked my agenda and saw that precisely the week of October 13th, in the Central Court of Instruction number 5, I had statements from the Gürtel case. What a coincidence, right on that date of the year 2015! As I say, this is a reform carried forward and proposed by the one who never carried the toga - the Minister of Justice - by whom he absolutely ignored the shortcomings of the means that exist in the Spanish courts and courts, by whom he did not know - or did know, and that is the worst - that it is impossible to manage a criminal case under investigation, whether by the abbreviated procedure or by the ordinary procedure, not within six or eighteen months, despite the fact that this country, and contrary to what is said in this House, has the best judges. They are not the armed arm of the judicial right or anything like that; they are people who work daily without means to carry out these cases, to discover these matters, to punish the guilty, to bring to prison those who commit crimes. Gentlemen of the United Nations We can, today they are in the government. The repeal of article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which regulates criminal proceedings, cannot be claimed. We'd run out of instruction regulations. We are going to vote in favour of this, and then we are going to table amendments to Article 324. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must be more ambitious. We have already presented this comprehensive anti-corruption project which aims to transpose the directive on the protection of the complainant; create an independent authority for public integrity; create a register of lobbies; promote the transparency law, that the Government of Spain - although none of its members is present today - does not resort to the decisions of the Transparency Council when citizens simply want to know whether Mr Sánchez used public means for his electoral campaign; criminalize the unjust enrichment of politicians, who enter Congress with a declaration of goods and activities, and we are at the end of the years that possess immense fortunes, or regulate the subsidiary civil liability of political parties. Socialists, one thing has happened in an autonomous community in the south, which you say has had nothing to do with the Socialist Party, where some of the masters of training plans and EREs have spent the funds on prostitutes and cocaine. And does the Socialist Party not respond to this after having appointed these political positions? We are taking this responsibility of the political parties on our own initiative. A newspaper report says that there have been two thousand cases of corruption since 2000. I've practically participated in everyone in one way or another. [[Laughter]] I have participated in persecuting them - thank you for correcting me with your laughter, gentlemen of the Socialist Party - by persecuting many of your colleagues, by the way. To Mr Barrionuevo, for example, in the use of reserved funds, public funds; to Mr Roldán, when he was building prisons and there was a part of that money left; to the assumptions of the papers of the State Official Gazette; to the execution of Filesa's affairs. Also, indeed, in the case of the Pujol; in the case of Bárcenas; in Palau, in Operation Malaya; in the case of Noós; in the case of the owner of the province of Castellón, Mr Carlos Fabra; in the Palma Arena; in Gürtel; in the ERE, at the end too. These are very complex subjects. Indeed, as has been said here, they involve customer networks; they involve the exit of money to tax havens; they mean in the end that these territories do not cooperate with us; they mean that many judges, many prosecutors, many tax inspectors, many officials, many police officers of those of the UDEF, that Mr Pujol did not even know what they were, many civilian guards of those of the UCO, to whom funds were withdrawn when Mr Grande-Marlaska became Minister of the Interior, with very few means left to fight corruption. So here's a hug for all those great officials in this country and see if we repeal Article 324 at once. [[applause]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. Next, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u51	Good afternoon. We will vote in favour of taking into account the proposal for a law on the grounds that the current deadlines are not in line with reality. A limited administration of justice in the media, especially in the cases declared complex with the undesirable consequence on many occasions of having it finally closed, can result in impunity for the accused, which is particularly serious in cases of corruption. We believe that action should be taken to ensure that this does not continue to happen, but the elimination of any time limit in the law also leads to legal uncertainty for citizens who, once brought into criminal proceedings, cannot know how long that process can last, whether guilty or innocent. And we have examples of processes of seven or eight years that end with the declaration of innocence of the persons prosecuted. Behind all this lies not only or fundamentally the stipulation of a deadline, but, above all, the provision of means. In order for the Administration of Justice, both in criminal law and in others, to be able to comply with the premise of dignified justice and without undue delay, it must have the necessary human and material resources. The elimination of a maximum time limit for the investigation of the summary does not seem to serve this purpose and it will be preferable, if we really want to fight corruption, to think of simultaneous action on both fronts, an adequate time limit and the improvement of material and human means for a more agile and effective justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u52	Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Sabanes Nadal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u53	Thank you, President. With Mr. Garriga's permission and before we are all illegalized, I would like to express the position of our More Country-Equo group. We will vote in favour, because it has been clearly shown that it has produced the opposite effect of what was supposed to be achieved. And I say supposedly because it is obvious that shortening deadlines without increasing means can produce no other effect than the one that produced it, which is to increase impunity. And it is no coincidence, it was a trap reform - it is obvious that it was a trap reform - that produced the effect it had to produce, and this is to increase the levels of impunity, among others that of Mr Pedro Antonio Sánchez, which has been a famous case, but also those of many others. And we do not say that, as the associations of judges and prosecutors have made clear and unanimously, it is clear that, knowing the conditions under which judges and prosecutors have to work, it was impossible to make a combination without moving those conditions to shorten the deadlines. I therefore believe that the only doubt that should remain here today for the whole of this House, the only doubt - and I appeal directly to the People's Party - is whether we are taking too long to resolve the obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u54	Thank you so much. The next item is Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Asens, we will vote in favour of your proposal, but I must warn you that in the relevant parliamentary procedure we will try to agree with you on a number of amendments. Justice is not the same for all. The limitation of the time limits of the investigation has proved to be the back door through which many cases of corruption have been left unpunished. But you, as a lawyer-in-Office, exactly as I do, know that limiting the time limits of the investigation is a guarantee for citizens on foot. San Agustín already said it and developed it Carnelutti: the criminal process is a penalty in itself. Thus, in the same way that the status of the taxpayer provides, for example, for a maximum duration with extensions, with exceptional possibilities for tax inspections, criminal proceedings should not be extended without measure. We must seek the formula of reconciling the fight against corruption with the strengthening of the right of defence. That has been made clear: part of it is a matter of lack of media, but it is also a matter of responsibility and an issue of excessive politicization of justice. A justice that is able to devote great means to pursue tolls of 11 euros and that, on the contrary, is unable to see who hides behind the enigmatic nickname of M. Rajoy. A justice that pursues manifestations clearly protected by the freedom of expression and opinion and that, on the contrary, sees no signs of crime in an obvious falsehood of the one who exhibits a master's degree that it is evident that he has not attended. The problems are therefore much broader, they are problems of politicization of justice and especially of the Office of the Prosecutor. I agree that, in general terms, justice does a self-denial job with respect to the vast majority of the million cases that are dealt with annually, but in those cases that affect the powerful, for or against, it does not always have the same objective criterion. So, it's a media issue, it's a responsibility issue, it's a depoliticization issue. We will vote in favour of the consideration, but I believe that we can all be able to improve the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u56	Thank you so much. The Republican Parliamentary Group then gave the floor to Mrs Telechea i Lozano.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u57	Thank you, President. We will also vote in favour of this consideration because the PP proposed and carried out this reform of section 324 of the Criminal Prosecution Act. For those who are not familiar with criminal procedural law, this article tells us that the court has six months to investigate or investigate criminal acts and this six-month period may be extended eighteen more months if the prosecutor requests that this file be declared as a complex case, with the aim of having more time to investigate certain facts; and then there is another extraordinary period. Many will ask themselves: So, what problem is there that there is more time to investigate facts that are criminal in nature? The problem is serious because it allows for impunity for many crimes, especially corruption crimes and others whose investigation is of particular complexity. I will give an example - although there are many, many examples that have been given -: the former President of Murcia, Mr Pedro Antonio Sánchez of the People's Party, was being investigated in a case called the Pasarelas case and, ladies and gentlemen, was acquitted because the prosecutor's office late requested the request for a complex declaration of cause and therefore could not produce that extension of eighteen more months in order to be able to continue investigating. The reform of the PP posed serious difficulties so that crimes with very complex causes could be investigated in such short periods, especially the major property crimes such as corruption and fraud and also organized crime crimes - what a coincidence!, no?-. Therefore, we are or were - hopefully this will be approved - facing a new path of impunity for serious crimes and a new cause of extinction of responsibility and covert prescription of the most complex crimes. The current time control system does not correspond to the current model of investigation in criminal proceedings, it has generated great legal uncertainty by causing very different judicial decisions and transmitting an appearance - and not so much appearance - of impunity for certain matters that have contributed to a loss of image and concept of the judicial system. On the other hand, we are not facing a mere reform and repeal of an article, and what should be done would be to design a new system that knows the reality of the current model of criminal procedure, so as to balance the necessary effectiveness of criminal investigations with the guarantees of all parties involved. All this is not possible without providing the Administration of Justice with the personal, material and economic means to be effective and efficient, but above all to respond to the demands of the citizens and protect them from any violation of rights and freedoms. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u58	Thank you so much. The next item is Mrs Olona Choclán, on behalf of the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. We announce that the VOX Parliamentary Group will support the consideration of the proposal that has recorded the confluence of the United Nations We can to the extent that the shameful reform of the Criminal Procedure Act introduced by the People's Party in 2015 through article 33 - which in this case was article 324 of the Ritual Law - must be repealed, which was undoubtedly a reform that had no other purpose, as you announced, than to promote impunity for the corrupt. That is why, because the VOX Group, of course, will always be on the sidelines of democratic regeneration, today we will vote in favour of this legislative reform. If you remember, this is the third time this House has considered this bill. Let's hope the third one's won. It was the same Member who took the floor in the last parliamentary term and two relevant facts occurred in that session. On the one hand, I pointed out the shame I was supposed to see certain Members laughing openly when we were talking about corruption. From another - this I was told later - it is the first time that leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party were seen to revolt in their seats - in the specific case of Mr Aitor Esteban, after fourteen years in this Parliament - when it was talked about the corruption of his party. [[Applauds]] Today, in this new legislature, there have been two new developments with regard to my first intervention. Firstly, the Community directive on the protection of whistleblowers of corruption was finally adopted on 21 October 2019 and I would like to inform you that the VOX Parliamentary Group has registered a proposal for a law that includes its full transposition into our domestic law and goes much further. Its final provisions include precisely the repeal of the reform that is being submitted to us today, Podemos. That is why, among other considerations, we will support it. Secondly, the second new fact is that the corruption of the Basque Nationalist Party is no longer just spoken of by the VOX Parliamentary Group; it is now also done by the courts of justice. In December 2019, the largest case of political corruption known to date to the Basque Nationalist Party, the so-called De Miguel case, was tried and sentenced, as you well know. At this point, the VOX Parliamentary Group wishes to raise its voice from this rostrum of speakers to transfer its solidarity and support to the families of the two workers, Alberto and Joaquín, who have been under the rubble since the collapse of Zaldibar on 6 February. We want to denounce loud and clear that no political ideology can be above people's lives and their physical integrity. [[Applauds]] For this reason, the VOX Parliamentary Group denounces the racism involved in rejecting and denying the help of our Spanish army, the UME. For many excuses that you put today, we have the damn hemerotheque, which offers us objective information and is that it is something that you already did with Ibarretxe in 2007, and of this, Mr. Lopez, you can talk a lot because when you assumed the Lehendakaritza in 2009 precisely reversed that situation of absence of our Spanish Army in the Basque Country. The ideologies can never be above life, but it has not surprised us. Precisely, Sabino Arana already said that among the cluster of terrible misfortunes that afflict our homeland no one is as terrible and distressing as the spray of his children with the children of the Spanish nation. Well, I can assure you that when VOX breaks into the Basque Parliament we will be next to all Basques, all of them, without any discrimination or supremacy, like the one you are trying to impregnate. [[Applauds]] As a final point of law, this legislative reform, which we are considering today's repeal, was described as a final point. Indeed, such impunity was favored by the corrupt, essentially by failing to provide the necessary human and material resources to the Administration of Justice in order to be able to successfully complete judicial instructions within the limited time limits imposed by section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act. Today, the VOX Group is taking a step forward to be on the sidelines of the necessary measures for democratic regeneration, but it is clear that we cannot stay here. There is a need to implement additional measures, such as the exclusive dedication of judges to complex cases of corruption or economic crimes, the suppression of corruption, the reform of the system of election of members of the General Council of the Judiciary, the limitation of pardons and - essential - the effective protection of whistleblowers of corruption, as the VOX Parliamentary Group has already done by registering a legislative initiative in this regard. These are the measures that the VOX Parliamentary Group will push in this legislature, because in this area, if we have something clear, we are going to be a containment dam to get rid of what they have implemented: the politicisation of the administration of justice. Don Luis Portero, chief prosecutor of the Supreme Court of Justice of Andalusia - Mr Matute, they are equally interested in hearing this -, vilely murdered by ETA in Granada in 2000, on the occasion of his admission to the Royal Academy of Jurisprudence when he delivered his speech, said: 'There is neither a socialist model nor a conservative model of justice, there is only the constitutional model'. The murderous band ETA followed their lives as that of all those victims who have been unjustly deprived of the most precious good for defending freedom and our democracy. So I ask you to have greater institutional respect and do not go up to this rostrum of speakers to denounce actions by any of the members of the Bureau, when they quite rightly turn their backs on you in taking the floor. [[Applauds]] Although you, as heir to the terrorist band ETA, you especially, and the rest of your group members, must be reminded that we must not turn our backs, let alone let our backs be seen. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Olona. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u61	Mr. President, good afternoon. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Don't be fooled, ladies and gentlemen, today we don't debate an omnibus law against corruption, although that's what it looks like. This repeal of Article 324 which actually comes for the third time from the Group We can - let me simplify - is not a reform against corruption. It is a procedural rule of the criminal prosecution body that affects and applies in all criminal proceedings, including those of corruption. The percentage of corruption proceedings over the total number of those conducted by our courts throughout the year is in all statistics. There is one thing that the General Council of the Judiciary has done lately and I ask you to look at: the repository of anti-corruption matters. You'll see the percentages, you'll see the resolution percentages, you'll see the communities. This is not an omnibus rule against corruption. You will do, you will do and you propose, but the People's Party did. The biggest changes in transparency and the fight against corruption are in the bill of the People's Party. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] The People's Party amended the Criminal Code, amended the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, determined the responsibility of legal persons and a long and so on, and have the Chamber Journal of Sessions to see what the experts of all ideologies and international organizations think. This is not a law against corruption, and this is not an article that the People's Party will incorporate for any of those purposes that its lords point out. Mr Asens, I suppose you, as you have worn the robe - I too, because it seems that you have to boast; I too have worn the robe many years and for many matters -, you will have to say after all that you have said about the People's Party'supposedly' or 'presumably', because there is no condemnation. But there is a condemnation, not against the People's Party, not in relation to this article, not in relation to any of the matters you raise. We cannot say the same with the Socialist Party. We cannot say the same with the Basque Nationalist Party. We cannot say the same with other Catalan groups that the name has been changed. I would like to be told whether it is corruption that a Government, the Valencian, has hidden, according to the Prosecutor's Office, that some rather questionable acts have been carried out by the vice-president's husband with minors. Is that corruption or doesn't it go into corruption? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking of starting my speech with the words of Brother Luis de León - we said yesterday - or referring to the Journal of Sessions, but the debate of 324, which I have described as a procedural rule and which could be boring, always brings something new. Each of you uses it as what points to the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid. Everything is talked about, it is confused in general, but we are not going to the fundamentals. The People's Group is not going to oppose this. The People's Group, which has participated in the debates of the previous legislatures, has already tabled an amendment to the whole - as many groups have already said, even though they have later disguised it as a speech that has nothing to do with the reform - and pointed out that it is an improved standard, as the prosecutors, the Attorney General's Office, are serious about it. Ladies and gentlemen, the State Attorney General, Consuelo Madrigal, and all the prosecutors did a commendable job of bringing up to date the cases in those six months that incorporated this law, which are not those of article 324, to update the investigations, many of which were forgotten or in some drawer, and not because the professionals would not want it, but because every day we are overwhelmed, much more so by prosecutors and judges. She did a very worthy job, all the prosecutors did a hard work that we have recognized over and over again. This rule - as a young and brilliant magistrate recently revealed - is a paradigm shift and is not perfect. We are rigorous at work and as it is not perfect, we have already proposed a change in the same line as the Attorney General's Office has been proposing since 2016 and which also appears in the memory of 2019. Minister Delgado had in her drawer the proposal with the small letter of the Prosecutor's Office and now also the minister, Mr Campo. I do not understand why the Group of the European People's Party, which is now a government, has not made a complete proposal based on what the prosecutors are asking for. Prosecutors do not ask to be left without time, nor that we go to total legal uncertainty and to the absolute victimization of anyone who is going to be investigated. Look, Renzi - a guarantor in front of the justiceist - has just vetoed to say: 'Lords, the processes cannot be indeterminate, they cannot be indefinite, we cannot go to the law of the jungle'. Ladies and gentlemen, let's change the precept. We could have made much more progress if you, who are now in the Government, pulled that reform out of the drawer and proposed it. We have proposed an improvement formula and we will continue in that improvement line. That's what needs to be done, because we can't leave him out of time. However, the repeal of article 324 proposes that criminal investigation should be discontinued without delay, but not of the causes of corruption, but of all crimes, both of trafficking offences and crimes against public health, as well as of petty crimes. Those crimes that Evole recently referred to when he said 'has come to my heart to talk to the prisoners, either of us can commit a traffic crime'. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you don't want to see a son of yours with an open investigation sine die in a drawer. However, that is what is proposed in today's text. We're not going to oppose it. I insist - to be taken into consideration. However, we announce changes in the line proposed by professionals. What the prosecutors, the Attorney General's Office, say is that the process cannot be slowed down further. I believe that yesterday the Minister of Justice said that he would soon bring a criminal prosecution law to this House. Well, I think it will be very difficult with your ladies and gentlemen, with groups proposing what they are proposing here - what you have said this afternoon - they will hardly be able to appreciate that proposal you are making. The Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u62	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u63	I'm done, Mr. President. The Socialist Party has also put it very difficult to propose a state attorney general who certainly does not deserve the fiscal ministry in this country, because the prosecutors in this country need someone pristine, spotless, unsuspecting, and that is not what they are going to have, except if the common sense of the old Socialist Party does not avoid it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u64	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Leal Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u65	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, we are considering in this plenary the consideration of the proposal for a law presented by the United Nations Group We can in order to repeal the maximum period for investigation in the Criminal Procedure Act. The Socialist Group is going to support this initiative, and we are going to support it, among other reasons, for the same consistency that we have maintained during the last two legislatures. Mr Bal, coherence; yes, yes, coherence, the same coherence that you should have had when, adding your votes to those of the Group of the European People's Party, you paralysed our initiatives to repeal Article 324. [[Applauds]] Let me make a brief parenthesis. Mrs. Moro, not by repeating and repeating something that is not true becomes true. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has never - listen to what I say to you: never - been condemned in any cause for corruption. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Since the adoption of Law 41/2015 our position has been belligerent in relation to the drafting of this article 324. I say belligerent because we have put forward and defended various initiatives to modify or repeal their content. A reform that far from correcting the causes of possible delays has seriously distorted and puts criminal justice itself at risk. In this same rostrum last September our then spokesman, Juan Carlos Campo and the current Minister of Justice, expressed the support of the Socialist Group for this repeal and did so, he said, for two reasons: for consistency and for justice. Indeed, these same reasons - coherence and justice? They also lead us today to support the initiative presented by UN Podemos. The law adopted in absolute solitude by the Government of the People's Party in 2015 was a law that had a very laudable title, said its objectives were to speed up criminal justice and strengthen procedural guarantees. However, this reform, far from remedying the shortcomings of the judicial system, had nothing accompanied for its good development: neither forecasts, measures, nor means, nor resources for managing change, nor were they taken into account - something that has been the subject of greater reproach and unanimous criticism and reproach - for its approval by the groups in the justice sector who were called to implement it. Ladies and gentlemen, setting limits to education is something that no one could reject. The instructions cannot remain indefinitely open, Mr. Legarda, we completely agree with you. Already warned of that the preamble of the Criminal Prosecution Act - you see - of the year 1882. But the need for agile justice cannot be excused either for precipitating instruction or, much less, for impunity. This has led to a misapplication of article 324. The de facto situation has been inconsistent with the objectives it sought to defend. This has created risks which, today, are unacceptable. We must set limits, and we must do so with the justice sector. It is they - associations of judges and prosecutors - who unanimously call for this article to be repealed. A rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, cannot allow us to allow these to be used as prerequisites for impunity or even for acquittals involving protection and defencelessness for victims of serious crimes such as victims of gender-based violence and citizens as a whole. [[Applauds]] While this happens, ladies and gentlemen, those who have complex causes such as, among others, cases of corruption, alleged corruption, organized crime, those who have powerful means for their defence, those are the ones who benefit from this article 324; a situation that generates social alarm and creates an unacceptable risk of impunity and with which it is necessary to end. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to support a derogation calling for by all the legal operators. It will count on the Socialist Group's favourable vote and we will accompany you in the parliamentary process in order to improve its content. As the Minister of Justice announced yesterday in his appearance before the Commission, one of the milestones of this legislature will be the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act, through a modern and fair regulation, which guarantees a criminal process, democratically speaking, and fully adapted to the constitutional principles. They will find us with the will to dialogue in constructive improvement, in order to really provide legal instruments that do provide coherent solutions for the purposes that are being pursued; but also, ladies and gentlemen, by putting in place the necessary means to achieve those ends. This is a really good opportunity for the deal, ladies and gentlemen. Let's take advantage of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Leal. [[Mr Esteban Bravo asks for the floor]] Yeah, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u67	Mr President, I would like to take the floor, as Mrs Olona, in her speech, has made some very serious accusations against the party representing my group. [[Mrs Olona Choclán asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u68	One second, Mrs. Olona, we're going to settle this first, and then we're going with the second. [[Mrs. Olona Choclán: It's a matter of form]] Mr. Esteban, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u69	Whenever Mrs Olona or any other representative of VOX intervenes, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, that is, for no reason, enter, exit and strike against the PNV. I do not enter or go out in the obsessions, phobias or frustrations of Mrs Olona and her group. If it had been one more provocation I would have let it pass but on this occasion we have been accused, my group, my party, of letting two people die in a work accident, and that is a very serious and serious accusation. He says it was because he did not accept the offer of the EMU, and he says it is because of racism. I don't know what racism has to do with the UME! But we'll go through with it. There's never been a media problem. What has happened is a very complicated situation in which, precisely, it was not appropriate to work with many troops on the ground because of the instability of the slopes; but there has never been a media problem. Therefore, it was not necessary to accept the offer of the EMU. By the way, the Basque Government appreciated that gesture, but it was not necessary. And of course, accusing the Lehendakari Urkullu and the Basque Nationalist Party of a lack of ethics and of letting two people die seems to me to be very serious, and above all coming from VOX is a real spur. [[Rumors]] Mr Garriga - I finish, Mr President - used to talk about coexistence, and he said that we were endangering it by the nationalist groups, the small groups in this House. Look, Mr Vice-President, I will always accept the political controversy, but the easy insult, the instigation, the constant provocation, that, of course, does not lead to the coexistence or the proper development of the work and our work in this House. That is why, Mr Vice-President - and I also refer to the President - I would like to point out something to that Presidency. I am not going to tell you what your job is, but it is that of an arbitrator, and that of an arbitrator to make the development of debates in this House as it has to be. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u70	Thank you so much. You have thirty seconds, Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u71	Mr President, that is not what the Rules of Procedure determine. We are referring to a parliamentary group or to a Member, not, as this Member has done, to an autonomous government, which is why we call for expressions to be withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions. Otherwise, Mr. Aitor Esteban...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u72	Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u73	...remember that while Mr Urkullu was giving explanations in the Basque Parliament today...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u74	Mrs Olona, let's not debate, please. You don't have the floor. You already said what you had to say. Thank you very much. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u75	We move on to the next item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group on the implementation of the necessary measures to end the demographic winter, promote birth and protect the family as the core of society. Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, do not ask what world we will leave our children, because the question is which children we will leave in this world. That's how the writer Leopoldo Abbey helps me to make common sense about this wooden atrium. And the common sense that defends VOX, which we defend the 52 parliamentarians of VOX, says that if more people die than they are born, as it does in our country, there is no generational relief, and this is a real demographic emergency, the demographic emergency that this House should be trying to resolve today. Each generation will be 40% smaller than that of their parents. The population between the ages of 20 and 30 has been reduced by almost 3 million people in eight years. In no war in Spain has there been so many casualties. And at the same time there have been 47% fewer births in 2018 than in 1976. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a real emergency, this is a national suicide and no State, no nation, can survive without demographic stability. More than a demographic winter is a demographic hell that the VOX Parliamentary Group wants to face. Socialists of other times defended precisely this situation, such as the French Prime Minister Michel Rocard, who claimed that most Western European States are on their way to killing themselves by demography without even being aware of it. It is a paradox that common sense is the least common sense in this House. It is a paradox that it is VOX who comes here to make common sense and it is a paradox that four million Spaniards have put us here for that: to defend common sense. Common sense, which is the only way to deal with this winter, this demographic hell, is precisely the defense of the natural family. A very uncomfortable subject for many, but an issue for which four million Spaniards have put us in this House. The natural family is the most fruitful institution in the history of humanity and there are numerous studies that say - I do not say this, nor do we say VOX because we are very facsimile - that children grow up much better with their parents and mothers, that they have better rates of schooling, that they have less emotional disorders and that with the absence of one of the two, of the father or mother, there is greater failure and greater poverty. The natural family is the best habitat and the best climate for the growth of children, that climate that we want to protect from VOX in order to face the real problem that constitutes an emergency. We are proposing this with concrete support, with concrete policies, because that is why we are here. And it is also paradoxical that in Spain today we have to have 21 children to get help from some countries in Europe. We are absolutely on the line in Europe on this issue. It is necessary to look at other countries, such as Hungary or Poland, which are facing this problem with common sense. For this reason, we propose a state pact for the family and children so that common sense will rejoin political parties in this House; we propose a sectoral table for the family; we propose to reform the Law on the Protection of Large Families to be more protective of large families, which are the ones that most contribute to this society; we propose to increase the family cheque by 600 euros per child from the third child and following; we propose a universal child benefit of 100 euros per month, and we propose to apply the criterion of per capita family income in all social assistance and public benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, there are always - and on this occasion more than ever - those who want to destroy the family, and those who intend to destroy the family have teachers, and their teachers are precisely the communist precedent of Marx and Engels. Abolishing the family is not a new issue, ladies and gentlemen; it is an old issue, it is an issue as old as communism which has shown that it does not work. As Chesterton said: 'Those who speak against the family do not know what they do, because they do not know what they undo'. And you don't know what you're doing, but in your status as priests you want to impose unique thinking on a society that spends 34 million on abortions, while spending 3.6 million on a pregnant woman. [[Applauds]] We have a state that invests more in death than in life and so, of course, there is no generational replacement and much less with the 2.5 million unborn children from 1985 until now, who would greatly alleviate this lack of generational relief. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the promotion of the birth of the government: the policy of death. This left that goes from revolutionary to life, with its caviar revolution of children of Dad UN, because it is Dad UN who really tells them that they have to impose these policies and make them culturally quiet throughout society. But not only do they want to abolish the family, ladies and gentlemen, because the family is absolved in a very clear way: abolishing women. Therefore, from VOX we want to denounce this monopoly of the left, this left that tells us what to think and be a woman to be a woman. Because the mothers of VOX, the militants of VOX, the professionals of VOX, the voters of VOX are neither sexists nor feminists, we are women. [[Rumours.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the stand.- A Member of Parliament: Bravo! Bravo!]] And you, however, feminists, are not women. And I don't say it, says your own Equality Minister quoting Simone de Beauvoir, because you have to become women. [[protests]] What we don't know is how you want to become women: if you have to do a course with Beatriz Gimeno, or if you have to take off your shirt and paint something on your chest. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] We are not feminists, we are women, and VOX women are free women, they are brave women and they are women with uppercases.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u77	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u78	Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u79	In order to defend the amendments put forward by your group and to lay down a position, Mr Martínez Oblanca intervenes, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. This parliamentary initiative defended by Mrs De Meer Méndez is relevant to the maraña that exists in the government after the disastrous conversion, after the motion of censure of Pedro Sánchez, of the General Directorate of Services for Families and Children and from the disastrous of 2018 to the disastrous of 2020, because its functions were divided only a few days ago by the new coalition government, fragmenting them into two new low-level general directions, not to say low-level, whose names, acronyms and peculiar characteristics I will not quote for lack of time; although, it is enough to point out that both are in the structure of the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 led by the second vice president, Mr Turrion Churches. It is surprising that for the wide variety of labels and competences that make up this multi-government of twenty-two ministries, no one has taken as a model what the European Union and some of its more advanced member countries, which give priority to family policy by raising it to ministerial rank. In addition to being relevant, any initiative on the family is always welcome, as it relates to the basic pillar of our society, a pillar that has become more relevant, if any, in times of economic crisis as a source of irreplaceable personal protection and, moreover, as a natural environment for the growth and education of minors, as well as the care of the elderly. In any case, since it is necessary to give greater category, commitment, preference and budget to family policy in Spain, allow me to quote my community of origin to claim them as an emergency. The acute population loss of Asturias is a consequence of one of the most accused ageings in the whole of the European Union, the galloping annual emigration of our young people for lack of a future and the lowest national birth rate, which is ending with families. Journalist José Marcos wrote in El País that there are councils of Asturias where, without exaggerating too much, it is easier to cross with a bear than with a rascal. But in addition to being relevant and correct, this non-law proposal is very timely in view of the latest known reports on Spanish families. I am referring to what at the beginning of this same month of February Save the Children elaborated, because it analyzes in detail, with official data and indicators, the vulnerable situation of families with children in Spain. Their conclusions should serve as a permanent stimulus for us to look for ways to tackle problems and prevent risks. Its statistical profile of households at risk of poverty is a crude and worrying diagnosis of important obstacles for our families; hence it is never more than from the General Courts that we echo this in order to take urgent action on proposals and solutions. If we are talking about the welfare state, the objective cannot be other than to update and modernise public support for families, which should be extended to crucial aspects such as those already mentioned in this proposal, but also to requirements for the reconciliation of family, work and personal life, maternity protection policies, better social services and rigorous implementation of the Dependency Act. This initiative by the VOX Parliamentary Group can and must be expanded. I have also joined the many amendments that have been tabled, and I have done so with an addendum to address a number of issues that for the Forum, and in speaking of family policy, have been a priority in our national, autonomous and local political action, such as the need to urgently address the demographic challenge, support family policy and give priority to a matter in which Asturias and Spain are playing their immediate future. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u81	Thank you so much. The next item is Mrs Vehí Cantenys. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u82	I'm doing it from the seat, Madam President, to name things. The feminist movement, which you hate so much, has taught us that naming things is important. Yesterday, you were questioning in the Justice Commission that women were the central subject of the Gender Violence Act and you were wondering what happened to men. And today you bring us this motion for a resolution that, under the Darwinist concept of a natural family, what hides is that you only defend your own, the families of the Brands and the families of the high officials of the State, because the rest of the families do not like you. [[Laughter.-Applause.]] In fact, to families who have not been born in the Spanish state you even want to deport them. The political proposals that you defend are, to call things by their name, sexists, racists, homophobes, transphobes, lesphobes... [[Rumors]] Yes, you are going against women's rights and the rights of the LGBTI community; rights that the feminist movement will again defend this March 8th by flooding the streets, and rights that we, as we have done so far, will defend with nails and teeth. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Vahí. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u84	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to discuss a law that deserves it, it is a crucial issue of our country because it is making Spain one of the best countries to form a family. We in Citizens are very clear that in this legislature, despite the noise, despite the polarization that I have just seen in this Chamber, despite the lack of responsibility of this government, we have to move forward with a law of integral support for all families. Spain is a great country to live in and we have to make it a great country to have a family. That is why we in Citizens have been more ambitious, we have proposed a family law in the previous legislature, we have resubmitted it and we want it to be a priority of this legislature. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am also referring to the VOX Parliamentary Group - when we presented our law we were already clear that the only ones who were not going to like are those who want a Spain faced. In Citizens what we want is to defend all family models. What seems to me to be a paradox is that only a family model is being defended, because the reality of our society is not so. Our society is diverse, the family models are different and each one chooses them freely, the freedom of whether one wants to form a de facto couple, the freedom to be a LGTBI family, the freedom to be a single parent family. Here we have an obligation, all of us, to legislate for all family models. In addition, we need to take into account our context. We share much of the context that this initiative brings us today. Today forming a family, having two children - I am the mother of two children - is almost a feat. It really is a feat and we would have to put on a red carpet for the parents who decide it, not barrier after barrier. That is why we want to introduce a new concept and extend the protection of families, considering large families to those who have two children and large special families to those who have three children, but what we cannot do is to forget, for example, the single-parent families, of which you have forgotten in this initiative. The concept and inclusion of single-parent families shines because of their absence. We continue with our diagnosis, and we know that we are in line in Europe in the field of birth, that the average age at which women decide to be mothers has reached historical peaks, that there is also a great gap between the desire of how many children we want to have and those we really have because many Spanish citizens no longer have children because they cannot afford it. We also went through a demographic winter. Yes, but it is not just a matter of births; it is a question of guaranteeing the welfare state of the future as a challenge. There is also something that shines out of absence and which seems surprising to me, we cannot talk about birth without talking about conciliation. Conciliation is essential and is the great outstanding subject that we have in our country, and which affects us especially women. There is a huge gender gap in many issues, but when we decide to be mothers our rates are still very high and it is we who have to decide whether we are mothers or whether we continue with our professional career. I believe that at present this is something that, speaking of families, speaking of birth, it is important that we address it. It is important that there is co-responsibility in the proposals, that parents have paternity and maternity permits for up to 36 weeks; that we have a bag of hours in which to allow those families who have dependent people, people to care for, to really reconcile; that we also expand and that we can do telework. Let's talk about the things that can change the lives of families, but of all families, not just a family model. It is archaic to speak only of a single family model. I also miss talking about vulnerable families. Families that have dependent people. We are very aware that we must support large families, that those large families that have several children have a poverty gap that triples that of families that have no children...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u85	Mrs. Giménez, you have to finish, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u86	... but together with this we have to protect other families, families, as I said, who have disabled people in their care; single-parent families. What surprises me, and to conclude, is that in the 21st century we are debating a family law that does not include all family models. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments from Citizens, which we hope will be accepted, and if we do not do so, it will be to ensure that all families are defended in this Chamber as they deserve. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Giménez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, too, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor in the first place in order to establish a position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u88	Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we take it that they reject our amendment. If we present it, it was precisely to show that you are a political force that wants us to step back in rights and freedoms instead of moving forward. So much so that his proposal has an undisguised tufa to the birth policies of Francoism. You ignore that the demographic problem is not biological and not only cultural but fundamentally economic. Difficulties in having children are the same as difficulties in living and even surviving. It is clear that all the actions of his party are aimed at denying rights, be they the collective rights of nations such as Galicia or the rights of individuals. With their patriarchal position of considering the traditional stereotype of family as the only defendable model, they are excluding all those who do not like them: same-sex couples, women and, especially, those who decide to have children alone, mostly women and therefore almost always invisible. I'm done. In any case, know that you will not be able to stop the progress of history, let alone reverse it. As a great Brazilian singer warned his country's dictatorship: Although you will be another day tomorrow. As we know that you have enormous difficulties in understanding the language other than Spanish, even if you are romances and therefore very close, I translate it: Despite you tomorrow it will be another day. That's their defeat and our victory. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u89	Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of VOX, those who have a narrow and petty idea of their country can only aspire to govern it if they face it permanently, if they fragment it. That is why in reality this GNP, because you do not come here to bring a GNP on families, you come here to bring a proposal not of law to see if you manage to confront some Spanish families with others, because you Spain is great and you need to amputate their diversity. That's why PNL doesn't really talk about the root causes why in Spain forming a family is a risky sport. If you were to talk about it, you would be talking about children's schools, you would be talking about social rental policy, you would be talking about job stability so that someone could have the life expectancy as to form a family, as to have children, and none of that is contemplated. That is why you in your non-law proposal do not speak of 2 million Spanish households, 10% of the Spanish families, which are single-parent households, we would have to say'monomarental' because 85% of the cases are women. Today forming a family in Spain is a risky sport, but, look at you, it is not a risky sport for an evil LGTBI conspiracy, for a feminist conspiracy or for the spirit of Marx and Engels. Has it been Marx and Engels who have made it very difficult today to emancipate from home because it is very difficult to access rents? Has it been an evil feminist conspiracy that has made schools from zero to six years often have no places or families can't afford them? [[Several Members: Síí]] Is it an immense plot of the feminist movement that has made working hours very difficult to reconcile working life with personal life? No, gentlemen of VOX, and you know it perfectly well. Those who are on their way to abolish the right to form a family are neoliberalism and the systematic economy of precariousness, and on this you say absolutely nothing because this GNP does not go on families, this GNP goes on the moral misery of facing some natural families - you say - with other families - must be - unnatural. If you really had the will to protect Spanish families, you wouldn't bet on cutting off public services, you wouldn't bet on cutting off the welfare state, you'd bet on putting an end to it and putting a limit on saving anyone and the neoliberal economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u91	Mr. Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u92	But you don't come to that, you come to face some families against others. That's why they don't count on us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u94	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I believe that entering the debate today to try to convince you is not worth it, but it is worth stopping for two minutes to understand that this is the first non-law proposal that VOX presents, the first parliamentary initiative that you present. And I would like to appeal more than to you to the rest of the parliamentary groups for what their role will be in relation to the VOX initiatives. They have been called from this rostrum the ultra-right, you yourself - unfortunately I believe - have been self-appointed as very facsimile; however, in much of this Chamber we have understood that we could not share anything with those who deny gender violence, the reality and the rights of nations, fundamental rights and, a few minutes ago, a shameful spectacle appealing against our comrades and friends of the PNV, to whom from this rostrum I want to send our solidarity. So you can't do politics and we won't do it with you. The question is what the PP is going to do, what the Citizens are going to do, what the BNG is going to do, these parliamentary groups that have presented drafts, what game they are going to give VOX. The PP and Citizens already know: if the votes add up, they will take advantage of it in their favor; the rest have to wonder what they are going to do. For our part, make it clear that there will be no game. There will be no game because, no matter how much ideological discrepancy there is with the other parties, we can do politics to improve the quality and life of the citizens of Catalonia. We can do politics for what is our great national project: to see a state for Catalonia. But we cannot do politics with those who deny political plurality, with those who deny fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u95	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u96	Thank you, Madam President. This afternoon the VOX Parliamentary Group brings an initiative to debate to foster birth and to protect the family under the heading of demographic challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, of course the family is the basic cell of Spanish society. Without a doubt, Spain is - I like to define it this way and so I see Spain - a country of traditions and family. The family is this institution that vertebrates our great Spanish nation, but above all it is the material and emotional network of every individual; every individual, whatever the form and origin of his family, whether or not they mediate roles in his family bond, finds in it his material and emotional network. Of course the People's Party cares about the family, it has always mattered to us and I will prove it later on, but I must first ask the ladies in the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in the absence of its first vice-president, Mrs Calvo, to listen and to do so carefully, especially so that they take into account what matters to us, to see if you will then also fall into the trap of saying that we do not care; that you tell her what family policies are about, not that it falls, when solving this vital question, in that of: The family? Okay, thank you. And everyone's so happy. As I know you are listening to us with that attention, my People's Parliamentary Group will also give you a mandate for the fourth vice-president, Mrs Ribera: to take the challenge ahead, which is the demographic challenge, into the highest consideration. His last name has the deserved and eager rank of vice president, but now he exercises as the challenge deserves. Spain is eager to express the talent offered to us by those who still live and want to continue to inhabit the vast kilometers of Spanish geography and is also in need of exploiting the opportunities that are still being saved in every corner of Spain today. Today there is a Spain that speaks, a Spain that does not resign to the disappearance and that demands policies that draw a better future for their families. They saw it, they all saw it last Sunday: 60,000 people crowded the streets of León. Meanwhile, here in Congress, the second vice president boasted of the cross-cutting nature of his social services portfolio. This is cross-cutting, ladies and gentlemen, the cry of a Spain that is depopulating and your Government is more concerned to set a date for the bilateral negotiating table with Catalonia than for those in Spain who are raising their voice. We, as a People's Parliamentary Group, in the responsibility that the voters have given us, are not going to consent to a Spain of the first and a Spain of the second, because it would be as much as saying that there are families of the first and families of the second. They call for the policies of the demographic challenge on the cornerstone of the family, of all kinds of families, of different families, but also of the different places occupied by these families, the families of the city and also of the rural ones, because if the family is cared for, the family remains. The demographic challenge and the family, both, have been and will be signs of identity of the People's Party. I said earlier, it was the governments of the People's Party that created the first commissioner of the demographic challenge, also the first family care plans had a mark of the People's Party in a government, in 2001 and also in 2015, the largest economic injection to families, more than 5 billion on the direct route for them. I am very afraid that you may return to your journeys, as in the last parliamentary term of Zapatero: more than 92.8% reduction in family support programmes and benefits. They removed the baby check and cut child benefits under five years of age. It is fortunate that still today, although they govern, they do so under the baton of the General Budgets of the People's Party. Faces certainly do not make us optimistic: the economic injection that Catalonia is asking them and the latest data revealing the unemployment -90 000 people widening the lists of unemployment, 240 000 people less contributing to Social Security - are not enough limbs to care for the family; except that of Galapagar, that is, that - and we apologize Lords of Podemos - is attended: mom has wallet, dad has armchair, there is nanny at night and outside doorkeeper. Now, what nobody can discuss is that policies in this area of the People's Party have two fundamental foundations: economic growth and job creation. And take good care of the recipe because without this second you will hardly be able to attend to the first thing. Many were the measures that we put in place and that today are in place, such as regulated telework, a national fund of 100 million euros to care for families at risk of exclusion, the amendment of the Law of large families so that the title will be in force until the last of the children reaches twenty-one years - twenty-six if studied -, an increase of 32% of the minimum basis exempt from the IRPF and an increase of 15% of the pensions for working mothers. That initiative has undoubtedly been amended today by the People's Parliamentary Group for the purpose of improvement and also from our experience as a government. Please take care that you have a special large family title, special category, starting with the fourth child, also families with two children when you have a disability...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u97	Mrs. Navarro, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u98	... and above all the impulse of economic measures to the families of two children, which is the Spanish reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Navarro. Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u100	Madam President, in common sense, something Mrs de VOX has alluded to, we are not going to enter into the debate on the VOX proposal. In our society there are rights that we have been achieving with struggles, struggles that have entailed many consequences and have left many people, long struggles that have led to the people who are here, men and women, having rights, all of them. These struggles have been fought for the feminist movement, for the LGBTI movement and for people who have fought for democracy and real justice. And I will tell you one thing: rights are not discussed; rights are defended and exercised. As far as the extreme right is concerned, these rights have come to remain, since otherwise they would call into question the pillars on which a democracy is based: the defence of human rights for all people, regardless of their origin, their sexual identity and their orientation of desire. We'll vote no.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs De Meer, you are not even in the debate. Oh, it's there! I do not know if you are interested in what the rest of the groups are going to say about the proposal you have brought us here. I think you have very little interest. I'll tell you one thing. In hell is what you and VOX want this House to become. That's hell. And I will also tell you, Mrs De Meer, that you are not going to get it, so from the respect that the rest of us Members of Parliament are used to using, I say to you: Good afternoon, Mrs De Meer, we are going to talk about the initiative that you, with little interest in the opinions of others, have brought to the debate in this House. This initiative certainly brings a very interesting topic to the debate: the demographic challenge, something that, indeed, needs to be addressed. That is true, and it is also true that the support policies that have been implemented so far have not been enough. And it is also true that the initiative of VOX, of you, Mrs De Meer, who continues to listen to me with great attention, like the rest of my colleagues, is absolutely regressive, short-lived and is a considerable exercise of political hypocrisy. I will tell you what we do in Euskadi, because in relation to this subject we have exclusive competence there, as set out in Article 10, paragraphs 12 and 39 of the Statute of Gernika. We have a family support law that was passed in 2008 and from there we go through the Fourth Inter-Agency Family Plan. We have an inter-agency family pact and a strategy to support families and children. However, my parliamentary group here in Congress will support all those initiatives that result and improve the quality of life of all people, as long as they are aligned with those policies that we are doing in Euskadi. I must tell you that this initiative that you have presented does not coincide with the principles that govern our policies. It is regressive - the rest of the speakers have already told you - because family diversity for you does not exist. In VOX that absolutely conservative view of life leads them to think that the family is a single, a single model, and cannot be changed. You said in your intervention that the children grew better with the two, with the mother and with the father. Well, no, the kids grow up better with the mother when they only have one mother. The children grow up very well with the father when they only have one father. Children grow up phenomenal when they have two mothers. Children grow up great when they have two parents. That is the family diversity that you are obviating. They do not show the slightest recognition and respect for the sociological diversity and demographic transformation that the family has had. They're getting more and more and that's what you give up. It is absolutely regressive, because the proposals it is putting forward - all of them - do not take into account which groups are most vulnerable. What are they? They talk about universality, but what we have to talk about is progressive universality. It is not worth everyone having the same economic aid. Those people and families who have the greatest economic needs must be cared for, first those who need it most and then gradually others. It's not a receipt. The tax measures you are proposing will have to be analysed when the vast majority of families with limited economic resources cannot benefit from these tax measures. You are proposing universal aid for everyone alike, regardless of whether you have EUR 1000 or EUR 200 000, and of course that is not a principle that we believe should be supported. It's regressive and it's short. You haven't talked about co-responsibility. He has not spoken of work and family conciliation. He hasn't talked about emancipation. What we need is not just more large families, which is the only model that you defend, but what we need is more families. And for that it is necessary that we address youth emancipation policies so that there is a chance that young people can develop their own life projects and have offspring if they want to. In addition, you do not pose what I was commenting on: children's schools, socio-educational models, resources of many natures, etc. I will also tell you, in conclusion, that your initiative is fundamentally hypocritical.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u103	Mrs. Gorospe, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u104	You do not at any time intend to reach an agreement. You want to outlaw those who call separatists and have no intention of reaching agreements. But I would also have no intention of supporting that pact of State which the Government is supposed to launch, that government which is red to you. His initiative therefore only comes here in the spirit of controversy and separation and, of course, not an agreement or a pact.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pujol i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u106	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Some, when they talk about family, only refer to this one. [[Shows an image showing the silhouette of a man, a child, a girl and a woman]] Others, we, when we speak of family, refer to this and also to this, and this and this; and this and also to this. [[maintains the previous image]] [[Showing several images showing different silhouettes of people, combined with each other]] Much interest does not have the Mrs de VOX who has defended it, who does not listen to our speech. We also refer to this and this and this; and also to this and this. [[Continue showing images that combine other silhouettes]] In short, these and many others of all genres, of all cultures, of all thoughts. Therefore, less demagogy with baby checks and more claim rights and equality and more respect for diversity and different family units. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Pujol. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u108	Good afternoon. You bring a non-law proposition saying you come to defend families and that's not true, so don't fool people. As long as this government raises the inter-professional minimum wage, as long as this government raises pensions, you are tidal because it is much more comfortable to tidalize than to work. But you know what they do? They're dedicated to nurturing families, and that doesn't help them at all. But they're also lying to them. Lying that families with three or more sons or daughters are in a situation of greater vulnerability. It is not true, this week, at the beginning of the month in fact, we saw that Save the Children's report tells us that the families with the highest level of vulnerability are the monomarentales especially, also the families whose grandparents and grandmothers live under the same roof, the migrant families and the families with poor working people. Well, it is true that this report comes out at the beginning of February and that in the non-legislative proposal that you bring is signed in January. Then one might think that this catches them by surprise, but it turns out that the Spanish State Network for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion warns and warns in September last year that 50% of single-maritime households are in a situation of extreme poverty, of severe poverty. What does that mean, by the way? It means that you can't deal with problems that have occurred, such as the breakdown of glasses, and that it becomes a real problem. It means that something that is not a setback but a normal weather forecast, that is cold in winter, can't deal with it either, and it means in fact that they don't have a diet with enough protein, because they can't eat fish, chicken or meat every two days. It turns out that of these families in this situation, their GNP, which is very concerned about families, does not say a single word. [[Applauds]] But in addition to this they lie again, and this non-law proposition shows that the emperor is naked. The emperor is naked because you bring data from the INE and you must not have read it - you must not have read your data, but those from the INE - because in fact what you say and with what you argue that there is a thing that is demographic winter, and you repeat it and repeat it, are data that are not right, because in 2025 the number of people over sixty-four years is not going to be 37%, it is going to be 31%, and because in fact there are not going to be 41.6 million people in that year but there are going to be 49.6 million people. This is what the INE says, which is what you quote. Cite it well, don't lie, don't invent this demographic winter pampire, because it's not true. Besides, they seem to be upset that there are older people. It must be that you're very saving, but when it comes to economic measures, you're more neoliberal, and you like Christine Lagarde more than people want to live too much. [[Applauds]] It is absolutely scientific what you propose, it is an invention - one more of your own - and in addition all the intervention that we have heard this afternoon had a filter of black and black and musikilla background of the node that retrotracts to other times that is not willing to accept this society whether they like it or not. Try other inventions, see if they are more successful, or try if not to work. In fact, if they worked they would see that the INE also reflects in their surveys the reasons why women who want to have children cannot, and have to do with the precarious pay and the need to have family work reconciliation. So stop caring and guarantee rights, offer social justice if they care about families. By the way, put to talk about this, I am also surprised by the intervention of the People's Parliamentary Group when they say that they take it seriously; it must be that once they put the scissors and forget them, because if they take it seriously they would think that it is very unnatalist to be closing health centres so that women - as in Verín - have to move more than 100 kilometers to abort, forgive, to give birth. It's just that the abortion thing I'm going to refer to later. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Turns out those over 100 kilometers that have to be moved to give birth is social mobilization, because they tell them that they are patients and not clients. We like families, all of us. The current director of the Women's Institute told one of VOX's spokespersons at the Madrid Assembly a few weeks ago. We reaffirm ourselves in that, we like all families and not just one model. Are the reports that say that the best thing is that you are raised by a father and a mother are the same reports that open Democracy has denounced when they say - now I come to abortion - that abortion produces cancer and that with this they intend to deter the women they are going to abort? Because if it's those reports, let me question it. We are not going to consent - the feminist movement, the women and many men of this country - that with this invented of demographic winter bring what they claim, a democratic winter based on wanting to dispute our sexual and reproductive rights. He's not going out and we're not going to let him.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u109	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u110	I'm done. Maternity is a personal decision and not a social obligation. While you are very concerned about that narrow country and the eight Spanish-only surnames, our group and this Government will continue to work to ensure that the surnames of all people, whatever they may be, are also guaranteed the possibilities of developing a dignified life and the family model they want. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the Socialist Group, Mr Fagundez Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u112	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and for the Government to face demographic challenges is a top priority and, therefore, we have placed the demographic challenge at the highest level, with the rank of vice-president. We can only face the demographic challenge from a cross-cutting perspective, from equality of opportunity between men and women and from territorial equality, that the place of birth never conditions an inequality, never a question of discrimination or a reason for inequality between territories. Before we think about this, we have to see that in order for our young and not so young people to want to have children, we have to talk about other issues. We need to talk about social justice and wealth redistribution. This requires that our young people have the capacity to have a decent wage and employment, with conditions of job stability that allow them to have a future horizon. It is necessary to implement measures for the reconciliation of working and family life and, of course, to be able to access decent housing to form their family. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is part of our crown jewel, the welfare state, with an education and a scholarship system that guarantees equal opportunities, with universal health that covers the medical needs of our future children. Gentlemen of VOX, in front of our model you pose here what you come to call the demographic winter. Model in which you equal birth with motherhood, showing your deep machismo in the conception of motherhood which, moreover, you have said today in the rostrum. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of VOX, birth is a demographic index and motherhood is the free choice for women to be mothers. From that macho condition that you have you place women as mere reproductive functions or simply to the care of children in your home. [[protests]] [[Rumors.-Mrs. Esteban Calonje: Machist!]] His proposal is deeply sexist because in this initiative that we are being brought here today for nothing they speak of the responsibility that men, we, have in the care of our children. [[Applauds]] They have not spoken here at all in the rostrum of the reconciliation of family and work life and they have not spoken at all of the paternity permits that this Government has once again extended. Look, your model, gentlemen of VOX, is a model of inequality, because you promote public policies that ignore the purchasing power of families; it doesn't matter whether they are rich or poor or socially excluded. Your model seriously attacks the diversity of our families, because you do not recognize the different families in this country. They invisigate families made up of two women or two men; they do not bet on family foster care; they do not facilitate the adoption of homosexual couples; they forget families that without being large families they have children in their care; they ignore the difficulties of international adoptions; and they permanently forget families that cross the Strait every day by judging life, and these families, even though they are not their own, are also families of this country. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, in the end, what families are you talking about? We're being told about your model, an ultra-conservative model that only you can fit into. That is why we in the Socialist Group are talking about plural families, because that is how Spanish, plural and diverse families are. In our family model, in ours, all families, including yours, gentlemen of VOX, are also in our model. Look, public policies must be aimed at removing obstacles: poverty, inequality, facilitating public resources to reach the whole world. But what public policies are not meant for is to decide what families should be and how many children should have. Not for that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I'm done. This is not going to bring children into this world simply; this is not going, as the right hand says here, that we have to have children to pay our pensions. No, this is going to offer our children a dignified life and a quality life. Therefore, to talk about the demographic challenge, to talk about birth, first of all we need to talk about housing, decent employment, combating poverty, especially child poverty, tackling inequality, defending sexual diversity; this is about working for equal opportunities in the territory, regardless of the place of birth, and equalizing the rural and urban worlds. I'm done, President. For all this, gentlemen of VOX, we are going to vote no to your family model, to this which you call the demographic winter; that it does not cease to be a fallacious model, full of false data. And I want to tell you that we socialists, in front of their model, this model of demographic winter, are going to bet on spring, spring of illusion...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u113	Mr. Fagundez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u114	...for the spring of hope, which is the diverse model that socialists have for families in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Fagundez. Mrs De Meer Méndez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u116	Thank you, Madam President. We're negotiating a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u117	All right, well, they'll get it to us as soon as possible, please. Thank you very much. - the plenary parliamentary group, on the amendment of the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2011, approving the revised text of the State and Merchant Ports Act. [[File number 162/000058]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u118	We continue with the non-law proposal of the Plural Parliamentary Group concerning the amendment of the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2011, approving the consolidated text of the Law on State and Merchant Marina Ports. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. First a preview, because we have not been able to intervene in the previous point and, frankly, Mrs De Meer, it has not been clear to me... [[Protests.-Several Members: no, no]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u120	Mr Baldoví, I have to ask you, please, to confine yourself to the agenda item, because if we continue to debate the previous initiative it can be an endless debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u121	I'm not clear on your definition of a woman or many other things. Look, there are decisions that forever mark the future of a city. I'm going to show you two pictures of what you wanted to do in the Turia Garden. One is this, where in 1970, in all that was the old channel of the Turia, they wanted to make highways and after a citizen struggle this is how it was left, a lung that crosses Valencia from east to west. [[shows a photograph]] [[shows another photograph]] This tells us two things, first of all, that citizen struggles serve something and, secondly, that sometimes these citizen struggles bring the interests of the majority to bear on the minority. If there had been no such struggle, the old channel of the Turia would now be motorways instead of a place to walk with the children, to sit under a tree, to do sports, to run or to go with the bike. The same would have happened with El Saler, that forest we have 7 kilometers from Valencia. If we had stopped fighting we would probably have had cement, buildings, predation of the territory instead of dunes, a hangover, pine trees and a natural park 7 kilometers from the city of Valencia. Quite a luxury. Now we have a transcendental decision to make in the port of Valencia, a decision where there has been a lack of debate, where there has been a lack of transparency, where there has been a lack of citizen participation. In fact, it is symptomatic that the mayor of the city of Valencia has voted against this enlargement. We're trying to do it in a lot of haste and trying to blame everyone we say we need to make a new environmental impact statement. It says: Either you are with me or you are against progress; you are against creating jobs, trying to do the works of a project, that of the north enlargement of the port of Valencia, substantially modified compared to 2007 and without wanting to make a new declaration of environmental impact. Sometimes it seems that the harbour authority lives from behind the city and that the ports are a reduct that escapes all control, and that instead of trying to represent the public interests it seems that they want to represent the interests of large corporations. I want to make a little memory. In 2007, the Socialist Group of Valencia City Council criticized the environmental impact statement adopted at the time. For all these reasons, Compromís has presented this GNP - and we have also included this point in the investment agreement - a very clear GNP with two distinct parts. Right now, the port authorities can delimit soil, define regime of uses, unilaterally affect and defuse spaces with vague transparency and on most occasions back to the cities. This is the case of the extension of the port of Valencia, with a very substantial modification regarding the declaration of environmental impact that was approved in 2007. You want to locate a container terminal, you want to extend the shelter dam by 500 meters, you want to increase the arid filling, you want to change the access location of the big merchant ships and therefore the dredging area. Moreover, in order for this enlargement to be viable and operational, it is necessary to construct a differentiated road access in the north and the environmental impact statement does not assess the impacts on air pollution - let us think that all cruise ships sailing across Europe generate more pollution than the 260 million cars in Europe - without thinking about the increase in truck traffic, which is now 7000 and will increase to 12 000 or 13 000. It should also be borne in mind that the legal context has changed and that the new Government has extended the protection of the territory. In this sense, Compromís calls for a legal amendment in this PNL so that in the Law of ports it bets to incorporate the humanization and democratization of the ports, the connection with the cities, to generate spaces of interrelationship port-city, sustainable mobility. In short, bet on the health of people and the planet. Secondly, transparent and multilateral management between local, autonomous or foral administrations. Thirdly, the democratization of the harbour space, incorporating the citizenry. Fourthly, an objective and more concrete definition of the concept of general interest. On the other hand, we ask for a very simple thing, that as long as there is no new DIA, no further efforts should be made; a new DIA that replaces that of 2007 that was done with another project, not with this project, and that includes aspects such as accesses, new concessions, economic viability, climate emergency and territorial and environmental protection. In short - and I finish - we demand common sense, prudence, legal certainty and participation. With regard to the amendments, we will accept the amendment tabled by Podemos and the Socialist Group and we appreciate the negotiating spirit they have had. We understand that this is politics: reaching agreements. As for the amendment of the foral party, we agree and will see whether we can incorporate it throughout this session. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u122	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea spoke in defence of the amendments put forward by her groups by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u123	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Mr Baldoví, we thank you from here at least because you are willing to consider the compromise of our amendment. Mr Baldoví, today he presents us with a PNL that it is true that it is limited to the need for a new environmental assessment for the expansion of the port of Valencia, but for us it has a much greater scope, of greater silence, and that is that with it we agree very much because it involves requesting the participation of other administrations, both the autonomous and the local and the foral, in the decision-making that supposes the affectation or disaffection of goods of spaces assigned to the harbour areas. It is true that these areas today require a much more pluralistic and integrated view of the public interest or of the intended uses, giving these administrations a preferential position in order to enjoy the assignment of such spaces. It is a question of being able to participate in this port-city interaction. It is clear that port-city relations have changed and of course in the disused port areas the claim for local and autonomous administrations to be able to participate in these new uses is of course very interesting as an improvement of the urban quality and, ultimately, for the social-economic urban development and the reduction of the environmental impact of the port cities. And it is now necessary to say that, in the law of ports and the merchant navy, the space of the ports - as you have rightly said, Mr Baldoví -, qualified as of general interest, is ordered and transformed by the state operator, many times without even the physical and social reality of the environment and on many occasions behind the backs of those administrations and other needs and other interests, even though these were also public and should be worthy of equal treatment of protection and integration from the point of view of a broad acceptance of the general interest. Finally, the GNP seeks to alter the current regulatory situation which it determines, as expressly stated in the fifth preambular paragraph, and to this end we also believe that Articles 43 to 45, 69 and 70 of that consolidated text should be amended in a specific way. The development of the ports over time has entailed modifications of the port use, that is, of their areas of service, and on many occasions has led to a notorious misappropriation of large areas, even urbanly degraded, preventing their correct use by other territorial administrations, especially municipal ones, for their use and social enjoyment. Thus, for example, you have told us about Valencia, but with regard to other ports, such as Bilbao and Pasaia, both in the surroundings of the lands of the canal of Deusto and the margins of the ria to Santurtzi, as well as in the surroundings of the Pasaia lonja, the disruption of the port service could certainly facilitate the management of such spaces by the municipal authorities, so that such intervention could mitigate the impact that the port has historically had on their surroundings. This is what we believe is understood by the second point of the GNP when it calls for transparent and multilateral management in decision-making, in which local and autonomous administrations, as holders of competence in land management, must approve with the General Administration of the State the condition, disaffection, enlargements and modifications of the harbour environment, etc. Moreover, as also highlighted by the PNL, the proposed regulatory amendment would facilitate the fulfilment of the ten objectives that have been collected in the International Association of Port Cities 2030, of which the most important cities and port organizations of the planet are part, since, as the memory of this agenda highlights, sustainable ports cities are at the forefront in the fight against the challenges presented by climate change; they are the best scenario to test innovative solutions in a diversity of problems ranging from the energy transition and innovation of industry to mobility or cultural development. It also highlights in its objective number 04 the renewed governance, in order to ensure a better representativeness of all actors, including civil society, in the decision-making bodies city-port and establish a balanced territorial policy between urban uses and active port. We have therefore tabled an amendment to clarify the second point of the proposed part of the GNP so that it could have a wording that includes the word 'foral', in the sense of participating in the decision-making process that involves the affection, disaffection, enlargements and modifications of the harbour environment that concerns them, as well as in those that involve authorizing, regulating and managing the spaces and uses that are outside the scope of the strict harbour interest. Go ahead, anyway, and we'll try to trade it. In any case, we will vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs López Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u125	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. I'm going to start this intervention by remembering an obviousness. In this room lately you could say many unpleasant obviations, but I'm not going to say any of those, I'm just going to remind you that the territory is one and therefore we can't treat it as different parts, separable, hierarchical. That is, we cannot talk about the port of Valencia without thinking about the quality of the natural beaches that are on the coast of Valencia, as is also the case with the Costa Brava. We cannot separate ports, territory and coastline. Enric Tello, researcher and professor, says that our goal in the relationship with the territory must be management. We must not simply protect the territory by pretending to return it to its wild, natural state. We must be aware that we are part of that ecosystem and that any relationship we have with the territory will have consequences, so our goal is to improve the ecological quality of the territory, of the territorial matrix understood as a whole. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility we have in Congress is to make laws that do not go against nature. We must make laws that manage the territory and that observe the relationship of the citizens, of us and of us, the people, with the territory. We have to rethink the uses we make of the territory, understanding that any human manifestation, such as a city, such as a port, forms the landscape. The management of our ports must observe the principles of the World Network of Port Cities: prepare for the consequences of climate change, pilot the energy transition and lead the circular economy, bet decisively on sustainable mobility, bet on renewed governance, invest in human capital, defend port culture as the resource of a sustainable relationship, also defend ports as resources of sustainable food for all, prioritize health and good living conditions in the management of ports, preserve biodiversity. All these changes have to be left armored since Congress, which is where we have the responsibility to make laws. We cannot allow the development that we have achieved thanks to having the luck of living in an exceptional territory to be at the expense of the erosion of this same natural environment and the degradation of life, of the living conditions of people who leave their backs so that only a few of them eat their prawns. No, gentlemen, we can't allow this. [[Applauds]] The environmental and social dysfunctions that we suffer in the territory and the resolution of conflicts that generate need comprehensive and inclusive solutions. If we do not open the way to territorially and socially synergistic options, each individual problem partially dealt with will not have a solution. For this reason, we have a responsibility to adapt the management of our ports to the new times; times that, ladies and gentlemen, are running out if we do not start making laws that listen to what nature has to tell us. For example, as far as we are concerned, the will of the Ports Act - as we are going to defend in this GNP - is effective coordination between administrations. This will we believe can be improved. For example, the board of directors of the port authority consists of 33 % members of the municipalities and 66 % members of entities. We have the Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Navigation, business organisations, relevant economic sectors. The only representatives of civil society are trade union organizations. I say that, with as much work as they have, the poor trade unionists must work 24 hours. I believe that we should not leave them alone and we could, for example, legislate in favour of environmental and social organisations also having something to say. So our responsibility will also be to legislate thinking not only these days, which for some is summed up in having their yacht and their luxury cruises, but we also have to think about the future. We were told earlier by the comrades that we don't have to think about what world we're going to leave, but what children we're going to leave, but if we don't protect our planet, it's not worth thinking about children at all. The ports of Valencia, which are the ones that concern us in this debate - I am finishing - have to think about being part of the coast and that is why we defend the need to renew the environmental impact study. In conclusion, once the amendments have been accepted, this group will support this initiative to manage our coastline, to democratise decisions and to achieve an equitable transition to the climate emergency that we have been alerting for years by the green parties. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sarrià Morell has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Baldoví, first of all, I would like to thank you for having accepted what the Socialist Group has put before you on a non-legislative proposal which, in general, speaks of the need to incorporate into the law considerations relating to the democratization of relations between ports and their reference cities, to empower them to make decisions in the strategic plans of the port authorities and to include the recommendations on this subject in the 2030 Agenda of the International Association of Port Cities. However, it has become clear that the final reason for the proposal is that it relates to the project for the north enlargement of the port of Valencia, for which it directly demands a halt and the processing of a new declaration of environmental impact on the one already approved in 2007. With regard to the first part of the proposal, the Socialist Group could no longer agree to implement the recommendations of the 2030 Agenda of the International Association of Port Cities, without a priori obliging a legislative amendment such as that proposed in principle, but without excluding it. He knows that they are objectives perfectly aligned with those of the Government of Spain. Moreover, as has been mentioned, many port authorities, including those of Valencia, are signatories to the aforementioned 2030 Agenda. In addition, the Harbour Authority of Valencia is a member of the aforementioned association and has explicitly subscribed to the ten objectives for sustainable harbour cities. With regard to the interaction between the port authorities and their respective municipalities and autonomous governments, I believe that it is necessary to specify that they are part - and not witness, as has been suggested - of the board of directors, which is the main governing body of the port authority, in addition to the fact that the president of these port authorities is elected by the autonomous administration. Also, when we talk about the competence of the municipalities in the definition of the urban planning of the spaces of interaction port-city, we can not forget that the special plans that regulate them the competent Administration, both local and autonomous, an aspect in which it will allow me to refer to my previous experience as councillor of Urbanism of the city of Valencia to highlight that in the last years, and especially during the last legislature - it must also be said that it has not always been so with other governments - there has been a fruitful dialogue between the city, the harbour authority and the Generalitat that has allowed to recover for the city ample spaces formerly harbours, such as the marina of Valencia, and recently nothing less than 230 000 square meters adjacent with a neighborhood especially punished by the port, the neighborhood of Nazareth, as well as buildings and installations until that time harbours for citizen use. With regard to the main purpose of the proposal, the draft enlargement, you are aware of the firm commitment expressed both by the Government of Spain and that of the Generalitat to comply scrupulously with the existing environmental law, and we have thus incorporated it, as you have indeed recalled, in the investment agreement we have signed with you. But we cannot be sure that we are dealing with an action whose most significant environmental effect was completed precisely in its most relevant part from an environmental point of view in 2012. In other words, we are talking about a built dam and that the changes in the project are still being studied, although the first evaluations considered that no new impacts were being made subject to a new evaluation. In any case, we believe that it is up to the technicians of the competent administrations to define the technical-legal criterion in this respect that guarantees maximum environmental protection, including the access channel, to which he referred. In any case, Mr Baldoví, we cannot ignore or underestimate what the port of Valencia means for the economy of the Valencian Community - and I am finishing, Madam President - and its area of influence, which, by the way, includes Madrid; which has an estimated economic impact of more than EUR 25 billion; which together generates around 40 000 jobs and is the first port in Spain in container traffic. We must all make a very important effort...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u128	Mr. Sarrià, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u129	I'm done, President. ...so that sustainability and economic development are not antagonistic concepts but are inextricably united. In that regard, I am grateful for the acceptance of our amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u130	Thank you very much, Mr Sarrià. Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. Allow me, Mr Baldoví, to expand the struggle and the extraordinary success of the transformation of the Yermo river channel from the Turia to Rita Barberá, the historic mayor of Valencia of unforgettable memory. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative is the result of the very hard public divergences that exist within the autonomous coalition government around the north enlargement of the port of Valencia. The scene of this political battle is being moved this afternoon to the Congress of Deputies to look for a loophole in the position of the Socialist Party that serves to try to correct the attitude of its co-religionaries in the Valencian Community, which, although contained in order to avoid tension the government of the community, is to support the expansion in the face of the paralysis of the work that the mayor of Valencia and an autonomous councilwoman, both of Compromís, claim until a new strategic declaration of environmental impact is carried out. Why does Forum intervene in this so territorial matter? Because this proposal of no law built around the Valencian battle for its port affects the Law of ports of the State and of the merchant navy, and from Asturias, with two large harbour spaces of general interest such as those of Gijón-El Musel and Avilés, we consider that it breaks into administrative powers in the management and control of the ports, subordinated to the municipal and autonomous regulations. We are talking about altering the competitive framework not only for ports but for all infrastructures of general interest that are managed by the General Administration of the State and under state law. It should be recalled that, in the specific case of ports, article 149 of our Constitution establishes as the exclusive competence of the State those of general interest, subjecting them exclusively to the State legislation, which already establishes the framework for the articulation, where appropriate, of competing competences between administrations. In response to the content of this proposal, the constitutional mandate of the State Administration on infrastructure of general interest would be breached. In line with the Valencian dispute between its government partners, it is also proposed to incorporate into the law the recommendations of the International Association of Ports and Cities 2030 concerning port-city interaction, generalist recommendations that in no way require changes in Spanish legislation for its implementation, and it is not possible to deduce from them an international justification for the purpose of this proposal. Finally, those of us who appreciate the extraordinary importance of our ports and their decisive economic and social role, we endorse the recommendations of the IVTA. But, I insist, a legislative amendment that would cut constitutional powers is unnecessary and illegal. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u132	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. For the same Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u133	Good afternoon. We have here a non-law proposal with two very different parts, one refers to port-city integration and another to a very concrete action in the port of Valencia. All of them affect us, especially the coastal regions we have ports. With regard to the first part, of course we agree on what port-city integration is and on improving it. In the port of Santander we have had an important example of recovery of the maritime front and is still progressing. From the PRC we fully agree and, in fact, we have managed the autonomous ports for a long time and have removed barriers to integrate them. I take the opportunity to recommend to everyone to take a walk through the port of Comillas or Castro, or to see how the port of Santoña, the port of Suances, the port of Laredo or the port of San Vicente de la Barquera was transformed and you will see how we have had a lot of sensitivity in this type of performance. But with regard to such concrete action as the honourable Member proposes, I do not want to go into the issue of whether or not such an assessment is sufficient because it will be what the law says. I also take this opportunity to say that we have very demanding laws. However, it must be remembered that ports are enterprises and that companies generate economic activity and generate employment, and there are times when great opportunities cannot be wasted, because competition is there and goes away. I have had experiences from some groups or associations that oppose any kind of performance, any kind of work by system, and I think that sometimes it is a great irresponsibility. We will soon have in Santander a logistical extension in the area of La Pasiega, and I am afraid that sometimes, based on so many demands that go beyond even strict legislation, there are missed opportunities that must not be missed. We were going to abstain but, in view of the transactional with the PSOE, we are going to vote in favour that we must respect that the Government and the port authority will strictly follow the environmental regulations considering all the factors, not only environmental, but social and economic, of this action. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Baldoví, thank you very much. I already wanted you to bring to this House something as important to all Valencians as this initiative that deals with the extension of the port of Valencia. But I confess to you that your proposal gives me the feeling that, as you will see below, I will be exposing you. I think that you and I can agree - at best without precedent - at least on something, and that is that the Harbour Authority of Valencia and its three ports, Sagunto, Valencia and Gandía, are a fundamental asset for our city and our community and, therefore, for Spain, because more than 40,000 families live from the work generated directly in the port and because their activity generates nothing more and nothing less than the economic impact equivalent to 2.5 of the GDP of the Valencian Community. Ladies and gentlemen, the port of Valencia is the first port in the Mediterranean in container traffic, the fourth in Europe, and is among the top fifty in the world in freight traffic. In addition, the port hosts the regular traffic of millions of passengers connecting the peninsula and southern Europe with the Balearic Islands and Italy. Well, Mr Baldoví, reading the explanatory statement for your non-legislative proposal would seem to you to want to go back hundreds of years in the economic and social development of our community and our country. Moreover, draw you in the exposition of reasons for that proposition not of law to the harbour authority little less than as a unscrupulous monster that is absorbing the city at its own will. And you have amended yourself and your partners because it seems to forget who are on the board of directors of the Harbour Authority of Valencia, in this case; I remind you: the Ministry of Transport - the PSOE -, the Generalitat Valenciana - the tripartite that you form with PSOE and Unidade Podemos -, the municipalities of Valencia and Sagunto - Compromís and PSOE - and other business and trade union organizations. They've made a suit, Mr. Baldoví. I was telling you at first that your initiative generated feelings for me because I am sorry, I am really sorry, Mr Baldoví, that a representative of a nationalist party who claims to be a defender of the interests of the Valencians and who a while ago, at the beginning of the afternoon, has made us a performance with the things of food, pretends with this initiative to go against the interests of our land by blocking an infrastructure essential for the economic development of our community, which will precisely benefit those things of food that you so much defended before. You nationalists, Mr Baldoví, are allergic to development, to the economic well-being of citizens and to the generation of wealth, and you know why?, because the better the citizens the worse the nationalists will go, because the more opportunities and progress the citizens grow, the more the margin of their victimism narrows, and the better the economic and social better the citizens, the smaller network of educated and subsidized you will have the nationalists. [[Applauds]] Look, as Citizens we are not a nationalist party, it is a priority for us to put our community on the front line of world ports and not to leave it behind. In Citizens we bet on employment, on competitiveness, on productivity; we bet on moving forward, on the future of our society, so that no one is less than anyone and always respecting the maximum environmental guarantees. Mr Baldoví, I say to you - I suppose you will not be surprised - that we cannot support this motion which attempts to paralyse a public-private investment of more than €1400 million in the port of Valencia and which has all - all in capital - the necessary reports for its launch. The president of the Harbour Authority of Valencia, Aurelio Martínez, who is a member of the Valencian PSOE, of its partners, defended only a week ago the necessity of this expansion project, pointing out that the infrastructure will generate more than 14 000 new jobs, generating our port 3% of all employment of the Valencian Community. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE - listen to this because it concerns you - his colleague Aurelio Martínez, the president of the Harbour Authority of Valencia, said yesterday - I read textually - that in Valencia we cannot afford to miss this opportunity and there are no objective reasons to lose it. You can't change the rules in the middle of an election process and you can't tell me that I authorize that change because that's prevaricating. This is said by the president of the Harbour Authority of Valencia, which is of the Valencian PSOE. I can't be sure, and I'm not gonna do that. Tell me who tells me. I'm done, Madam President. When there's no data, there's ideology. In my home they say that what are not accounts are tales and, as always, Compromís, partner of the socialist government, puts ahead dogmatism to pragmatism and is able to deprive the Valencians of a vital infrastructure for the economic development of the Valencian Community.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u136	Mrs. Muñoz, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u137	I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u138	No, it's just that you have to finish, Mrs. Muñoz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u139	I just want to know what the gentlemen of the PSOE are going to vote for and what their position is going to be, because today what does it play, what they say in the City Hall of Valencia, what they say in the Council, face or cross? What is the opinion of all those who have expressed in their institutions and in the governments in which they are in the right? Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u141	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Left Republican will vote in favour of Mr Baldoví's proposal for different reasons. It only takes common sense to understand that an environmental impact study conducted in 2007 does not serve us today. Thirteen years have passed and environmental regulation systems, both European and Spanish, have been modified. The Valencià Country is still recovering from the drunken Gloria, which caused the death of five people and wreckage all over the coast. And Gloria arrived when we were still dragging the consequences of the DANA, which last September devastated the Vega Baja, leaving behind the collapse of nine buildings and more than 5,500 affected homes. What is intended with the extension of the port of Valencia is an aberration from the environmental, social and economic point of view. Environmental aberration because we are talking about a marine transport that is a highly polluting activity and does not contribute to Europe's greenhouse gas reduction targets and that in 2018 generated 139 million tons of carbon dioxide, CO2. And if this is serious, it is even more so than the company that will operate the new container terminal, MSC, has been the cause of 11 million tons of CO2. Think - they commented before - that the ships of goods emit more CO2 than the total of vehicles of the ten largest cities of the State. We cannot ask citizens to be aware, to change their life model, to recycle, to use public transport or to change the car by bicycle while we give green light to highly polluting projects like this. But also the port will modify once again the line of the Valencian coast. We need to know how it will affect the beaches of southern Valencia: Pinedo, El Saler and even the Albufera Natural Park of Valencia. We cannot continue to modify the coastline to our liking, and the drunken Gloria made it very clear to us. It is intended to dredge the area to a depth of 22.5 meters to extract more than 21 million cubic meters of material and then fill with 23 million cubic meters the large platform where they will dock ships of such dimensions that they are not yet manufactured. The Harbour Authority of Valencia assures that it is economically profitable and that 14 500 jobs will be created. We don't get the bills, Your Honor. From a social point of view, it should be remembered that Valencia is not recognized without its maritime villages or without El Grau, without the beaches of the Arenas, the Malvarrosa or the Pinedo, without the Patacona and the painted houses that made it easier for sailors to locate their houses. Valencia has been telling us for years that it wants to be a sustainable city that looks at the sea and wants to do it without shame, because Valencia knows what it is to feel shame and anger for the loss of neighborhoods like Nazareth or La Punta, sacrificed for the first part of this enlargement with the ZAL. The extension of the port has also had its social and cultural impact with the demolition of the Forn da Barraca, a historic furnace demolished to expand the V21 as access road. This demolition found resistance from environmental groups, neighbors, musicians and farmers, who claim that 'L'horta is life'. Declaring the environmental emergency must involve urgent and concrete protective and non-aggressive measures. This Government must protect the environment and the coast of the Valencia Country, the products of proximity to the garden and the sea and the social fabric that unites the capital with its port and its beach. The people of the Valencia Country are tired of paying too much. They pay with their agriculture for Europe's agreements with third countries. They have paid for years tolls of highways that allowed to build others thousands of kilometers away. Are we going to ask them again to sacrifice themselves and keep paying? In Esquerra Republicana del País Valencià we published years ago a study that carried the title 'Valencià, payi i calla' and has become almost a phrase made. We may be forced to keep paying, but we don't think anyone's gonna shut them up anymore. We do not want to miss the opportunity to talk about the area of competence not covered by the proposal, but which is a key element in spite of article 149.1.20.a of the Constitution. We cannot forget the need for the majority participation of municipalities and autonomous communities in the management of the major ports. It is very important to open these ports to the socio-economic and environmental realities of each of the territories in which they have a terrible impact; think that I am from Barcelona.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u142	Mrs. Vallugera, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u143	I'm done right now. In any case, we will support your proposal and continue to work, please, to ensure that the management of the territory is in the hands of the territory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs Vallugera. Mrs De las Heras Fernández has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on a previous note, I would like to tell Mrs de ERC that this Valencia country does not exist in our legal system, which is the result of her dream of annexation. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I would like to say to Mr Baldoví that VOX did not vote in favour of the trade agreement with Vietnam. I'd beg you to review the Journal of Sessions. [[Applauds]] Now yes, Mr Baldoví, you come here with a non-law proposal that apparently defends the natural spaces, the seabed or the coastal façade, elements that we must certainly protect. It is therefore important that the north enlargement of the port of Valencia should be halted as a matter of urgency until a new strategic declaration of environmental impact is made, as, in his view, we are faced with a climate emergency and the statement he does not like. But Compromís is not concerned about the environment. His party is as socialist as it is predictable. All you want is absolute control and for that you use a report that only bothers you because it is favorable. They don't care about their content, they care about their meaning. And it is that the extension of the port of Valencia - a pretext used for its ambitious end of the absolute control of the administrations - that bets on electricity and renewables, precisely will reduce the emissions of CO2 by 98 % and also has a wind plan that will allow in 2025 to meet the objectives of 2050 and be self-sufficient energetically. It will also have an electric substation to prevent the pollution generated by the cruise engines arriving in Valencia. And here we have come across the first real reason why you want to paralyse the enlargement of the port of Valencia, the cruises, as the Basque Nationalist Party has said, just like you, Compromís, or Podemos. But we can expect it from Podemos because it still has no purchasing power to buy a cruise. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] In their explanatory statement they already drop it when they say: the aim of the new plan is to devote all the north extension to container traffic and the relocation of the current cruise terminal, which would entail an administrative concession of thirty-five years at the hands of a private company. Here we find your second motive, private company. Did you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the extension of the port of Valencia would generate 14,453 new jobs, that only the enlargement work itself would amount to 17,017 and 15,285 jobs, that the gross value added would reach 3143 million euros, which is 2.27% of the total Valencian Community, and that the new terminal would generate a positive impact of 600 million euros on the Valencian economy? Of course you know that, and that's exactly what you don't want because you want to destroy the job. You very well said that we were going to answer this, and it's true because if you know what we're going to say to you is because you already know in advance what they think; they want to limit the economic and commercial activity of cities and block the economy. As Chosen, they are the enemies of commerce. Finally, it tells us that there is an excess of cumulation of competences by the Harbour Authority, which is given - in your opinion - by the lack of transparency and the non-participation of the autonomous and local administrations. And here your third reason, competences, that is, again control. You want the decentralization of competences to stay in control of the ports, so that a fundamental axis of the economy of a city, of a European capital with port, remains in the hands of the mayor of turn. You want it, just as the Basque Nationalist Party, which has been demanding port management for two years, wants it. Even a legal report has been requested by the Transport Commission to Ports of the State, and although it is still under preparation, it warns of the legal impossibility without changing the Constitution. The desire of the nationalist parties to appropriate the ports of the State - see Basque Nationalist Party, see Compromís - has no limits. Ladies and gentlemen, as an example, do you imagine a port under the control of Ada Colau or Joan Ribó? Although Joan Ribó, as mayor of Valencia de Compromís, is currently on the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority of Valencia, they should know. Therefore, its alleged null participation in respect of the powers of the Harbour Authority of the autonomous and municipal administrations falls by its own weight. I must understand that it does not intend to deceive us - if not, I recommend that it do a little better - and that what has really happened is that the actual decree as amended is not read, since in its article 30 it states that the boards of directors will be formed by the autonomous communities and the local entities. And I'm done, Madam President. With this exhibition it declines its foundation to request the modification of the consolidated text, the Law of ports of the State, since neither the port of Valencia would go against its beloved 2030 Agenda nor the autonomous or local administrations are beyond the competence. That's why VOX is going to vote no, because we're not going to allow them to take control of ports, to destroy employment, the economy and the progress of cities.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u146	Mrs. De las Heras, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u147	Yes, a sentence. But don't worry that by fulfilling your request for inclusive prosperity in terms of ports, we will ensure that ships and boats dock in the port of Valencia. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. De las Heras. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Hoyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Baldoví, if this lung to which you have referred is a reality today, it is thanks to the best mayor who has had the city of Valencia which is, without a doubt, Rita Barberá. [[shows a photograph]] Mr Baldoví, it is clear that you are suffering from a balance problem, perhaps because you take too much lime. Any development model is based on a balance, a necessary balance between environmental protection and the impulse of productive activity. Of course, we need to move forward in a sustainable way but, in addition to thinking about the territory, we need to think about the people who live in it. Mr Baldoví, we are going to vote against your non-law proposal because your reasoning is extremist and, moreover, waterproof. It turns out that you present a totally unbalanced model and as negative as defending one pole as defending the other. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group defends the protection of the environment and you will always find us protecting our beaches, protecting our albufera, protecting our mountains and protecting our garden. The natural heritage is one of our greatest riches and we will work tirelessly to leave our children the best Valencia, of which you have no doubt. But we, in addition to thinking about the territory, also think about the farmers, the self-employed, the industrial workers and the people who are looking for employment and have not yet found it. Mr Baldoví, your non-law proposal, obviously anti-Valencian, is against our agriculture, it is against our industry and also against our tourism. [[Applauds]] Do you know that you are boycotting the export of Valencian agri-food products? Do you know that you are boycotting the export of cars that are manufactured in Almussafes, of the furniture we manufacture in Alfafar, of the ceramics that Castellón produces, of the toys of Ibi or of the shoes of Elche? Do you know that you are boycotting thousands of jobs that are generated through cruise tourism? Mr. Baldoví, you are not progressive. The progress is not in stopping the major economic engines of the Valencian Community; it is in making compatible the protection of the environment and the progress of our productive sectors. It is our job as public officials to protect the jobs of people who have to pay mortgages and support their families. Mr Baldoví, I did not expect you to present such an anti-Valencian proposal and it is that your pan-Catalanism has no limits. You know very well that the great benefit of the paralysis of the port of Valencia is, of course, the port of Barcelona. How can you say that you care about Valencia and prefer our oranges to be exported to another port? What pact do you have with your friends, the independenceists, to put Valencia back on the line with the priorities of this government? [[Applauds]] As always, what you have done today is to use that rostrum to try to confuse and deceive but, fortunately, the People's Parliamentary Group is here to commemorate and defend the general interests. For years we have needed the extension of the port, a port that is a leader in the Mediterranean. In 2007, the Ministry approved a project that had all the favourable reports and also an environmental impact statement that remains in force today. This enlargement was paralysed by an economic crisis that failed to resolve its Socialist Party partners. Do you know what competitiveness means? Being competitive means having the ability to get there first and we won't be the first if we don't have the infrastructure to do it. The People's Parliamentary Group is committed to speeding up the works envisaged in the project. Mr Baldoví, you are talking about humanising the ports, but what do you intend to do, humanising the port of Valencia and dehumanising the 40 000 families living directly or indirectly from the port of Valencia? [[Applauds]] You remain unattended, that we will continue to listen to civil society. I would remind you that 95% of the allegations to this project were absolutely favourable. Ladies and gentlemen, not satisfied with breaking the balance, as a colophon to his initiative, Mr Baldoví proposes a reform of the State Ports Act which also breaks the natural system of relations between ports and cities. So far, the port-city relationship has worked through the collaboration of the two institutions and, therefore, we do not share your proposal to assign to the local entities and the autonomous communities some competences. Mr Baldoví, common sense must not only be preached, but must also be applied.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u150	Mrs. Hoyo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u151	I'm done, Madam President. I recommend you have more coffee and less lime. It is common for you to try to break all the balances, but I would suggest that you do not break with the most important balance, which makes it possible to protect the environment while making possible the progress in our country and the well-being of all the people we live in it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Hoyo. Mr Baldoví, do you accept the amendments that have been tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u153	I'll get back to you in a few moments.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u155	We then proceeded to discuss the motion following an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the reasons of the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda that led him to hold a meeting with Delcy Rodríguez, the commitments that were made on behalf of the Government of Spain with the regime of Nicolás Maduro and the impact of those commitments on Spain's relations with Venezuela, with the European Union and with our allies. For the initiative group and for the defence of the motion and the amendment tabled, I have the floor, Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion we are presenting today has its origin in a lie; a lie followed by others until, for the time being, six, replaced this week by silence and forming a vivid image of the lack of transparency of a government which boasts precisely the opposite; this lack of transparency which seeks to silence those who denounce what is already a great scandal and an imposture on the part of Minister Ábalos and the government of Pedro Sánchez. Let us first of all go to the facts, since the proper functioning of democracy requires protecting the truth from the facts in the face of lies and falsehood. The Vice-President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, Delcy Eloína Rodríguez Gómez, pointed out by the European Union - abro quotes - as a cause of the undermining of democracy and the rule of law in Venezuela, in particular through the usurpation of the competences of the National Assembly and its use to attack the opposition and prevent its participation in the political process - closure quotes - has been prohibited from entering the territory of the European Union since the end of 2017, when the Council Regulation of 13 November 2017 on restrictive measures in view of the situation in Venezuela was adopted. However, despite this ban, his plane, which in theory moved her to Istanbul, landed in Madrid on 20 January, Monday. Here is the first violation of the European agreement. But there is more, according to that agreement, it should not have landed in Madrid, but if it had not been possible to prevent transit, it should have been expelled immediately, as is the case with a rule of law that complies with the agreements it has signed multilaterally. It was not so; Minister Ábalos visited her at the airport and Delcy Rodríguez stayed in Spanish territory for seven hours until he took another plane to Istanbul. So far the facts; everything, absolutely everything, we have known through the revelations of the media, since Minister Ábalos lied from the very beginning. First, he strongly denied that the meeting had taken place. Then the version was that it had been limited to a casual greeting, since the minister would have gone to the airport at twelve o'clock in the evening to receive his great friend, the Minister of Tourism of Venezuela, Félix Plasencia, who, on the other hand, was going to spend several days in Madrid to go to Fitur, so there was no need to go at such untimely hours to greet him. In a third version, Ábalos' meeting with Delcy Rodríguez lasted about twenty-five minutes and took place inside the vice president's plane. He measured at this moment - let's go for the fourth - in the chaos of the meeting the president, Pedro Sánchez, who intervened to support the minister and point out that with his meeting the minister had prevented a serious diplomatic crisis. Finally, Ábalos acknowledged that the vice president got off the plane to move on to another plane, but did not step on Spanish soil, something we can hardly understand since, unless she has carried it on her shoulders and the verb step is not used literally, it is impossible that the law has not been violated at this point. And finally, Minister Ábalos acknowledged what was published by some media, which accompanied Delcy Rodríguez to the VIP room in Barajas and held an informal meeting that lasted nothing more and nothing less than an hour and a half. At the moment, the Minister and the President of the Government are silent, hiding that the issue is still under discussion. This prevents this dark fabric of lies built for reasons that we can sense from continuing to get worse, but which they try to hide, and which may constitute a crime. In this way, they avoid giving explanations, for example, about the number of suitcases that left the vice president's plane - forty, according to some means of communication - or about its contents. They avoid explaining whether Mrs. Rodríguez planned to stay in Madrid in a luxurious hotel very close to here and whether or not she had a schedule scheduled for those days. They avoid giving explanations about the content of the meeting held with Minister Ábalos, because meeting and not greeting is what to call a meeting that lasted about an hour and a half. They avoid giving explanations about the recordings of the cameras at Barajas airport which, of course, they intend to skim. In short, they avoid explaining their new position around Maduro's Chavista regime. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to speak for real, but I am sure that the facts that have occurred and that the Government has tried in vain to conceal, and those facts are very serious. It is very serious that the Vice-President of the Chavista regime in Maduro - a regime that tortures, that executes, that forces its citizens to emigrate en masse in the face of the collapse of the economy, of health, of misery, of the lack of drinking water, of food, of medicines, of opportunities - lands at the Madrid airport when it is prohibited to enter the territory of the European Union and does not prevent its transit. It is very serious that this lady is not immediately detained in compliance with the law. It is very serious that he receives, on the other hand, the visit of the Minister of Transport and Secretary-General of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party when he is illegally on Spanish territory and of the European Union, and it is even more serious that the Minister denies everything and lies to this House when we force him to appear and gives no convincing explanation of what has happened, as well as that the Minister of the Interior, who is ultimately responsible for what is happening at our borders, appears yesterday in the Commission and does not give any reasonable explanation of what is within his competence. Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of the truth there is no certainty, no confidence and without confidence democracy is staggering. In democracy all citizens have the right to their opinion, to express it and to defend it, but they have no right to invent their own facts to support that opinion. In democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, deception always comes back to the strength of reality and truth, and the strength of that democracy is measured precisely by the ability to make its commitment to truth and freedom prevail over lies, and that is what has been measured these days in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u157	Mrs. González, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u158	I'm finishing up, yeah. Free citizens without fear of reprisals and a free press have made known to the public what really happened at Barajas airport in the face of the Government's will to hide it through the use of denial and lies. We will see whether the Government is even going beyond its opacity and unwillingness to explain what has happened.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u159	Mrs. González, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u160	One more misconception if not because 140,000 Venezuelans have sought refuge in Spain in the face of the devastating devastation of their country. Ladies and gentlemen, by voting on this motion we have prevented the Socialist Government from abandoning Venezuela, demanding that it continue to support its legitimate President, Juan Guaidó, and his Assembly so that free and democratic elections can be held in this country as soon as possible. And I end up with one last reference. Mrs Calvo, Vice-President of the Government - she is not present but I hope this message will reach her -; Venezuela matters, Venezuela does matter to us and, moreover, Venezuela hurts us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u161	Thank you, Mrs. González. Mrs Oramas González-Moro spoke in defence of the amendments tabled by the groups, first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position on this occasion.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, four million Venezuelans, the largest exodus without a civil war, a world war or even a major natural disaster. Only on the border with Colombia, in its vicinity, there are 1,200 000 Venezuelans. For the Canary Islands, Venezuela is the ninth island; there we have more than 100,000 compatriots. They have returned 70 000 people to the Canary Islands, people with one hand in front of them and another behind them, who have left their farms, their farms, their shops, who have come out quickly to face threats to life, to a disease. That Venezuela that was the richest country in Latin America, that has the most important natural resources that a country can have - hydrocarbons, mining, gold; it has everything, even had a wonderful tourism -, in the end it has been destroyed by these policies chavistas, populists. I remember the last time I was there, four years ago, and eight years ago, when it was cheaper to fill a gas tank than to buy a coke or a bottle of water. Why? Because you got to those policies. Today's health is destroyed and people come out. The Canarian nationalists have always brought things here for debate; when the PP did not resolve the situation of the first 27,000 returnees and did not give them the papers; when the passports were not renewed by the consulates and they were even trapped in the Canary Islands because they could not catch a plane; they could not rent, they could not get a job and, above all, they could not collect pensions. We will continue to insist on that matter. We also have a claim, and I'm going to take advantage of this moment because I never have five minutes. We have urged the Governments of Spain not to be covered by issuing passports in Venezuela, because a passport in Venezuela costs a year's or a year's and a half's salary, and there are times when we have to get on the road. But today we come to the Ábalos case. I tell you one thing: he ate a brown that wasn't his. The natural scale of a flight from Caracas to Asia is Tenerife. When the Chinese President, President Putin, African leaders, Iranians or Bolivia come from any Latin American summit to Asia or Africa, the scale is Tenerife. Moreover, if they had made a refueling scale in Tenerife, they would have been able to continue with the crew because they had almost five and a half hours or six to Turkey. Why didn't you make the stopover in Tenerife? No one can believe that the Vice-President of Venezuela - and I say it in a nutshell, I do not want to describe her as the legitimate Vice-President of Venezuela - did not know that she had been banned from entering the European Union and Madrid. Technical scale for refueling? Tenerife, don't get off the plane. But it turns out you're coming to Madrid, and not just that: you send a third-level officer and you give instructions to the airport police and there's nothing going on here. And we can't think of anything other than sending a minister and on top of it - I feel sorry for Ábalos, I sincerely say it - with a rough version; he called me Grande-Marlaska and said: Since you're going there try to get him not to get off the plane. For God's sake, it's all so pathetic, so ridiculous, so absurd... But that cannot imply that the truth is not known. That the communication was mismanaged? Yeah. That they made him eat it? Also. I think we need to know the truth, but this is not for a Commission of Inquiry, honestly; what the Government has to do - we will have the Commission of Official Secrets in no way - is to appear and tell the truth, because if the President says that he has done a great service to the State it will be for something. Well, tell us about it in the Committee on Official Secrets because, if not, it's attendance and it's not going to do any good. Coalition Canaria has never approved reprobations to ministers either in the governments of the PSOE or the PP because the presidents are responsible. That is why we have tabled an amendment to eliminate reprobation and, secondly, for the Government to appear on the Committee on Official Secrets. If we are not allowed to accept the amendment, we cannot support this motion for consistency; in thirty years of democracy we have never supported a reprobation of a minister. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u164	Thank you, Madam President. This debate could be about human rights, it could be about freedoms, but it is not about this today. Today the debate is focused on the internal sphere and using as a bold weapon the pure and hard opposition to the government, an issue that is very delicate because it affects many people and many citizens and interests of the State, but also many Venezuelan people who are suffering a very complicated situation. I think we should ask ourselves whether it benefits Guaidó's assertion or fortitude, as acting president-in-charge, that you sow the doubt that Spain does not recognize him as such. I do not think so, at all; the democratic cause in Venezuela and the President-in-Office himself are being sluggishly favored. With this debate, can we improve the human rights situation in Venezuela? Is it really meant to produce this? Is there any idea directed at this? I don't see her. Are we making this debate closer to free elections in Venezuela? Honestly, I don't see it either. I believe that what is being done with this debate, calling into question again and again the support of the Spanish State for free elections and President Guaidó, is precisely to weaken those democratic positions. That the Government did not handle the situation with skill, I say so too, because of course the various versions did not help to make a strong speech or to give the appropriate explanations from the very beginning. Was Europe fulfilled?, it would be another of the big questions. I believe that this has been achieved and we have also seen it in the debate that took place within the European framework. But it was fulfilled with Europe, because it entered Spain? No, technically he did not enter Spain, like other people who also arrive at the airport and are rejected for access to the country. There was no easy move to Europe, which did not happen; it did not happen, and that must be said clearly. Was she expelled immediately? Well, man, yeah. [[Rumors]] Yeah, that same night. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, that same night. He was neither walking around Madrid nor leaving the area. [[Rumors]] Man, if you wanted him to leave immediately, not for a second and a kick... let me talk... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u166	So the question is: And would any government, for example the PP, even while defending Mr Guaidó and the democratic positions of the Venezuelan opposition, not have sent someone to speak with an unexpected visit? [[Several ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group: No! No! No!]] Don't say no, they've done a few of these. It is that we are talking about thousands and thousands of Spanish citizens who are in Venezuela and important economic interests of Spanish companies in Venezuela. We're not talking nonsense. Therefore, things must be handled in compliance with the legislation, but be prudent. I believe that the commitments made within the European framework have been fulfilled in this respect. Of course, it was not prudent with the versions, but I am not going to be the one who reproaches the government for sending someone, a minister or anyone else to talk to this lady. Because, look, the acting president in charge himself, Guaidó himself, after these events has qualified Spain as a friend and ally. And I say that when he talks about Spain, however much the PP, VOX and Citizens believe that only they are Spain, he is not referring to that; when he says Spain, I suppose he is referring to the country and he is referring to the government. President Guaidó himself said so. Could you have stopped her? No, and you know it; you're not even asking. I want to make it clear, in conclusion, that we support the democratic process and the democratic opposition forces that are seeking free and democratic elections in the country as soon as possible. In that sense, we would have no problem in voting yes to points 1, 2, 3 and 4, but those who do not see any sense, as exorbitant, are 5 and 6. Moreover, if you have already drawn your own conclusions and therefore Mr Ábalos must be expelled from the government...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u167	Mr. Esteban, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u168	...then what do you intend to get out of the commission of inquiry? I should have made it clear earlier whether Mr Ábalos has done anything to ensure that there are reasons to request his cessation. Therefore, for exorbitant reasons, we shall vote not on points 5 and 6, but on the other four, if you like, without any problem. I'm done, Madam President. We will always be against the repression of the Venezuelan people and democratic forces and will always denounce the human rights situation, but also the calamitous economic situation in that country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u169	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Mr Bal Francés has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Good night now. The facts of this matter seem to be clear. Everything is a lie, everything is darkness, there is absolutely nothing clear. What is clear is that nothing is clear. We saw him last Wednesday in the control session: we don't know if he went to Plasencia; then there was a casual encounter; later the meeting was not casual; there were forty-five minutes, El País said they had been an hour; it was on Marlaska's account so he wouldn't land; in the end it was impossible for him to be fourteen hours on the plane, he went out to the vip room. Here we find today's news that El Independiente publishes, and it is that apparently a vigilante has declared before the notary that, in fact, he went down to the vip room. And this is one of the problems of this matter, which we have breakfast every day with a new news: with the forty suitcases that we do not know what they were carrying in a diplomatic vehicle, with which the CNI established a counter-monitoring to Minister Ábalos regarding his visit in the dark, at high hours of the night, in an unofficial vehicle at Barajas airport, and we continue to deny the commission of inquiry. And they don't tell us what they talked about, if Leopoldo López, if Guaidó, if not receiving it, if a Spanish company that has interests in Venezuela; and they don't tell us what Mr. José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero is doing in Venezuela or what he's brokering for; and they don't tell us if he's supporting his former ambassador, Mr. Morodo, of whom the press also now tells us that his family has 4.5 million euros in Switzerland; and they don't tell us if, at best, he's hiding the illegal financing of some Spanish political party. They don't tell us anything. The most surprising thing is that citizens in the European Parliament get to investigate Spain's compliance with or breach of European standards and there the Socialist Party and We can vote no, because they say it must be investigated here, and here we are denied by the Committee of Inquiry. [[Applauds]] Finally, you will explain when you come up to this rostrum what is the meaning of your ideas and your inconsistency, but, of course, it is frankly regrettable. We no longer need to hear Mr Maduro say that between Mrs Delcy and Mr Ábalos there are secrets, secrets that do not seem to be going to tell, as is the case with the secrets, and that Spain is a friendly country; or that we meet the president of the Government of Spain saying that Guaidó is not the president of Venezuela, but the head of the opposition, and the chapuza that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has to say after that it is the two things, as the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group said this morning, a kind of superhero that in itself accumulates all the positions of the Republic of Venezuela. Finally, it is absolutely unacceptable that there is no committee of inquiry on this issue and you must think about this, Mr Socialist Party, when you have always voted in favour of recognizing Juan Guaidó until your friends from Podemos have entered your government. Do not tell us how to do the opposition, do not tell us what matters to the Spanish; I tell you that the Venezuelans living in Spain, the Venezuelans living in Venezuela, the Spanish, the Citizens and many other groups in this House do care. We care that you lie to a government minister in Congress. We care that you do not want to clarify the facts through a commission of inquiry. We do not care that, despite the fact that Spain is going to investigate the breach of European law in Europe, you do not want to open the Commission of Inquiry here. We care that Spain is disloyal to the European Union, not recognizing Juan Guaidó and not applying the legal rules that prevented Mrs Delcy from entering Spain. We care that Spain legitimizes a dictator. We care that Guaidó is not recognized as Venezuela's legitimate president. We care that in Spain it is said that the problem of Venezuela is resolved between two legitimate parties; there is only one legitimate party, the one fighting for freedom. We don't care if Zapatero goes to Venezuela because of what title. We care that Zapatero is protecting corruption. We care that the Venezuelan gold is passing through Spain. We care that Spain is turning its back on those who fight for freedom and respect for fundamental rights in Venezuela, on Venezuelans who are our friends and our brothers, on Leopoldo López, on Juan Guaidó, on those who do not condemn aggression. We care that the voice against torture, against political murder, against aggression against those fighting for freedom is not raised. We care a lot about our country's position, but above all we care about Venezuela; we care about a free Venezuela, with free elections and without Maduro, and this goes for all Venezuelans. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u171	Thank you, Mr. Bal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u172	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, a few words in advance. First: I must remind you one more week that we are experiencing a situation of democratic abnormality in a state where political prisoners continue to exist. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Yeah. Second question: If you count the time we have spent talking about Venezuela in these first three plenary sessions, it is certainly much higher - certainly not, it is much higher - than that devoted to any of the territories of the Spanish State. But, as someone has said before, Venezuela in this House is not a question of international policy, no, it is a question of internal, internal policy, of mutual wear and tear between the different groups; this is the reality. The interpellation was a sample, the questions in the control session were another sample and this motion is another sample. You, in the motion, speak twice about the legitimate president in charge of Venezuela and I will speak to you here today about the legitimate elected president of Catalonia. [[Rumors]] Yes, Mr. Carles Puigdemont. [[Applauds]] On 10 January 2016, the Parliament of Catalonia, sovereignly, elected President Puigdemont as president, who was ceased by an unjust and unworthy application of Article 155, yes, indeed. [[Applauds]] And I must remind you that, by interferences of - let's say - elements of the whole Spanish state, on January 30, 2018 President Carles Puigdemont was not voted again as President of the Generalitat, although there was a parliamentary majority to that end. Therefore, we can talk to them about legitimate elected presidents of Catalonia, and that would also be the Spanish State's internal policy, but they no longer like that so much. We are going to vote against this questionable motion, but that does not relieve the Government and Mr Ábalos of responsibility for our part. Minister Ábalos probably had to deal with some situation due to a lack of diligence on the part of some other government partner. However, management has been disastrous, disastrous. By the number of versions on the same issue, although the final explanation might make sense, this sense is absolutely distorted by the change of versions over time, led by the circumstances. Therefore, this is not a good precedent. We are not going to join in calling for the resignation of Minister Ábalos for this situation, but they do not believe that we endorse the management carried out in this area. It has been a disaster, a cluster of barbarities and empires on the part of the Government and the ministry. [[Rumors.-Pause]] Thank you very much. However, we are not going to enter into this internal dynamic of asking the ministers to resign in the first days; there will be opportunities to do so if they do not meet their commitments and we will do so. [[Laughter]] Beyond this situation... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u174	Thank you very much. Beyond this situation, also, obviously, we express our respect to all the Venezuelan people, to all Venezuelans, because repression is not only in other countries, repression is also... No, beware no. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Beware]] There is also repression in the Spanish State. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u176	Let's see, it seems, and I wish it was a mere appearance, that you all have a sick obsession with Venezuela or, rather, an ideological obsession. [[a lady Member: Let's see, let's see]] At the last plenary session, we saw him. The People's Party had the option to ask seven oral questions and one interpellation and assigned more than the majority to Venezuela. And on top of that, you dare to talk about human rights; you, who 1 to 15 people in El Tarajal; you, who deployed 6,000 national police and civilian guards... [[They killed them with impunity.]] [[applause]] [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u177	Mrs. Rosique, please. [[Protests]] Mrs. Rosique, just a moment, please. [[Protests]] Quiet, please. [[A Member of Parliament: Let him withdraw, what a shame!]] Silence, please, silence. [[Protests]] I'm asking for silence. [[Protests]] May I take the Chair? [[Pause]] Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Mrs Rosique, I ask you to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions the explicit accusatory expression of murdering someone.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u178	Those who contributed to... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u179	Mrs Rosique, I ask you to withdraw it from the Journal of Sessions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u180	I'm withdrawing it from the Journal of Sessions...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rosique. [[Rumors]] Continue with your intervention, and I ask for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u182	I ask for explanations from those who talk about human rights, but instead they send 60,000 national police and civilian guards to pacify the people who wanted to vote peacefully on 1 October. [[Protests]] To you, those who created the labour reform that exploits workers day by day; to you, who have evicted thousands and thousands of families, throwing them on the streets and failing to comply with the judgments of the European Union's courts of justice and human rights. [[Applauds]] If they talk so much about Venezuela, there's something they have to hide. I simply ask you to retract, to apologize for all the work of your Government in breach of human rights and to oppose, to stop the constant violations that are being carried out in the Spanish State day by day. And this would be nice to be remembered more often. [[Protests.-Applause.]] You see, I bring here, both those who are going to vote in favour of the motion and those parties that are in the Spanish Government, the 275 recommendations of the United Nations Human Rights Council; recommendations for them to comply with human rights at once in the Spanish State. [[shows a document]] [[Applauds]] But it turns out that they are trying not only to hide human rights violations in the Spanish State but also in the rest of the world. Venezuela is your great fixation, that we know, we know you have a colonialist vision about Venezuela, but please don't make it so obvious that it will lead us to distrust you. They casually forget about human rights violations in Saudi Arabia, Malaysia or Turkey, for example. Perhaps they forget them precisely because when they were in the Government they did not care to export arms to them. Don't fool us, please. If you are so concerned about Venezuela, let's talk about it, okay, but let's talk about Venezuela from mutual recognition and cooperation, never from foreign intervention. Let's talk about Venezuela thinking about what really matters to Venezuelans and Venezuelans. Maybe there are no topics we should talk about, as if to be discussing whether the vice president, Delcy Rodriguez, stepped on duty free or not. We are clear that we are going to vote against this motion, and we are going to do it with four very clear premises, we are very clear. [[Protests]] The first, and I will remember it until it is clear to all the Members of this House... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u183	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u184	The first: Venezuela is not a colony, it is a state. The second: legitimate president is the one who wins democratic elections, not the one who calls himself president in the middle of a square. Third premise: manipulating information does not defend human rights; human rights are defended through mediation. And fourth and last, and I finish: human rights are always defended, wherever we go, whether in Venezuela, Saudi Arabia or the Spanish State. [[Applauds]] Less hypocrisy and more respect. And I ask all of you, 1 Words withdrawn by Mrs Rosique i Saltor. absolutely everyone, also those who at the time supported the coup d'état that happened in Venezuela and that now, thank God, they have realized that it was a mistake.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u185	Mrs. Rosique, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u186	I'm done, Madam President. We, the Republican Left, will always be found against imperialism, for human rights and for the sovereignty of peoples, absolutely always. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Rosique. Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, we have had a month's term of office, we have had two plenary sessions, and they have used their quota of initiatives to bring us issues as relevant to the general public as discussing whether we swear or promise the Minutes of Deputies, which I am convinced is a matter of deep concern to all Spanish citizens. They have also used last week's quota and this week's quota to bring Venezuela and Venezuela. You, so patriotic, do not want to talk, in our opinion, about what concerns the whole citizenry. They do not want to talk about the opinion of the United Nations rapporteur on poverty after seven years of Popular Party governments, they do not want to talk about the problems of farmers who are mobilizing throughout the State and they do not want to talk about the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage or the rise in pensions. No, no, [[Applauds]] You reduce the problems of Galicia, Asturias, Murcia or León, of the Lions, who have also mobilized to Venezuela this Sunday. But, as you know, the citizens of this country pay us to solve their problems, not to talk about issues that I do not think are of particular concern to Spanish citizens. I'll give you some information from Mr. Alston's United Nations report. According to the UN, after seven years of governments of the People's Party and Mr Rajoy, 26% of the Spanish population lives at risk of poverty and social exclusion; one in four citizens. In Murcia, where you govern, this rate rises to 32.7%, and in Ceuta, where you have been ruling since 2001, the risk of poverty exceeds 49%. And guess what autonomous community Mr. Alston has found - and I quote your words - the worst situation he has seen in his entire life? In settlements here, in the Community of Madrid, 14 kilometers from the Royal House of Posts, where Mrs Ayuso, who, by the way, today has called the citizens of León and many other places that are manifesting themselves to claim their rights, sits calmly and comfortably. [[Applauds]] According to this same data, in my country, in Galicia, where you still govern, there are almost 600,000 people who also live at risk of poverty. By the way, speaking of Venezuela and Galicia, do you know, ladies and gentlemen, to whom Mr Feijóo and Mr Rajoy sold the savings boxes, leaving a hole of more than EUR 9 billion? To a Venezuelan financial institution. That is why you have no problem reaching agreements with the Venezuelan elites. [[Applauds]] Let's talk about their positions in international politics and human rights, which is what they are theoretically concerned about in this initiative: the Iraq war, that of President Aznar, 114,000 civilians killed; loss in their years of government of international weight of the Spanish State; they destroyed with development aid; cuts of up to 70% between 2010 and 2017; absence of Spain in almost all relevant multilateral forums and processes, as for example in Cuba. Beyond each other's ideological position, it is tearing to see how a position of dialogue with a country like Cuba has been lost. Let's go with Latin America: you supported Mauricio Macri, whose neoliberal policies sank Argentina's economy, increased inflation, debt, poverty and inequality and, as Mrs. Álvarez de Toledo should know, there was again talk of hunger in Argentina; you endorsed with a state visit by Mr. Rajoy to Brazil the coup that has allowed Bolsonaro to come to power, Bolsonaro, yes, the one that puts religious ideas as the axis of his social and educational policies and the one that promotes the expolio and deforestation of the Amazon. [[Applauds]] Finally, if you are concerned about Venezuela and the Venezuelans, first of all, stop treating the Venezuelan people with that colonial displicity. Venezuelans and Venezuelans, both of them, resist the profound economic crisis that they are experiencing because they have the deep hope that democracy, dialogue and politics will be the ones that are imposed and not economic extortion or war. Please use this House to discuss things that really concern citizens or, as a skilful parliamentary columnist wrote today, to see if among all of us we can get to the right of the mud they have wanted to create in Lake Maracaibo. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Oooh!-Rumors.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u189	Thank you, Mr. Gómez-Reino. Mr González Coello of Portugal has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u190	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, that Podemos and Mr.Antón Gómez-Reino come to give us lessons and to tell us about the savage humanitarian crisis in Venezuela or what is happening or was happening in Bolivia, Nicaragua, Ecuador and that they are ashamed to mention Cuba is unknown. I've been to Venezuela. I have my friends in Venezuela who are in jail, who shit in a hole in the ground, who don't have enough room in the cell to sit down and sleep and sleep in shifts. I'm focusing. Venezuela has a president, Juan Guaidó, Venezuela's only legitimate president; the other is a tyrant. Who are our partners? Did Mr. Guaidó's Venezuelan government or Mr. Trump just impose a sanction on Rosneft for collaborating with Maduro's government? Who are the partners of the Government of Spain? Mrs Marta Rosique, Mr Ferran Bel and Mr Aitor Esteban spoke about human rights and I have listened to them with respect. Human Rights Watch said that from 2016 to 2019 the regime police killed more than 18,000 people. You know why? For resistance to authority. [[Mrs. Martínez Ferro: 18,000? Not bad. - Rumors.]] Yeah, I said over 18,000. Amnesty International and also the European Parliament have denounced crimes against humanity, including extrajudicial executions, torture and illegal detentions that do not respect - I am sorry to say - children and adolescents. To sum it up - I open quotes again -: hunger, punishment and fear, the formula of repression of the Maduro regime. Venezuela is a tragedy, but also a warning, the warning that an extremely prosperous country can end up oppressed and pauperized by radical socialism and communism. How many more examples do we need? How many? [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez - who is very sorry he is not here - said a government with Podemos will take us to Venezuela's rationing charts. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] And don't laugh, this is very serious, I can't find any fun. Venezuela has the world's largest oil reserves in the Orinoco Strip. It was the fourth richest country on the planet in the 1950s, above Canada or Switzerland, had the highest credit rating - which we have never had - triple A, and today, however, it is a country completely devastated, with hyperinflation and with a people forced to live in misery. The situation is overwhelming; there is a shortage of commodities and medicines, if someone goes to the hospital they have to carry their blankets, they have to carry their medicines, they have to carry the utensils used by doctors and they have to bring food to their relatives. It is the largest economic collapse in recent decades, and before international sanctions began, 46 per cent of the country's GDP had already been charged. We therefore unquestionably support compliance with international sanctions on these satraps. And we would like to know whether the President of the Government, and in particular his Vice-President, also supports them. Speaking of what Mr Aitor said that they never entered Spain, Antonio Remiro, professor of public international law, makes it clear - I open quotes -: 'The State is obliged to comply with its obligations. There's nobody's land.' The transit areas of the airports are part of the territory where they are located. Even if I had a Schengen type A visa, this would be a fraud of law, since Mrs Delcy is subject to the restrictions of the European Union. Why did Mrs. Delcy's plane on her way back not pass through Spain and make a stopover - we don't know, because it disappeared from the radar for a number of hours - in Algeria? Why did the American government, twenty-four hours after it made a stopover in Spain, take this and other planes and put them on the blacklist? Will that have consequences with Spain? Are we going to fight the Americans for supporting some satraps? Madam Minister or Vice-President of the Government, the Minister did not lie six times, he was very short, the Minister - and only illustratively - lied by demanding to deny the existence of the meeting, lied for denying that there was a formal contact, lied, lied and lied - I have counted more than twelve. I'm done. But, look, do you know what this is? This is a notarial record of a worker whom we believe the Government has urged. The management of the company has received various complaints from the AENA customer regarding the performance in the development of your service provided by you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u191	Mr. González, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u192	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u193	No, two minutes, not a word. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u194	Thirty seconds. Well, we have the testimonies of the cleaning workers, the gentlemen who unloaded the suitcases, the police, the Civil Guard, etc. It is not pleasant for me or reason of pride to ask for the resignation of a minister from Spain, I say it with my hand in my heart - and to Mr Ábalos if he were -. Someone from his party said that the Spanish people do not deserve a government that lies to him. I agree. It has two doors to go: the law or the cross; choose. We will not stop until we clear up the political responsibilities. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u195	Thank you, Mr. González. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u196	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, today we find ourselves here with a motion which is the result of an inquiry in which a country such as Venezuela is being used. [[Rumors]] Yes, exclusively, and this last intervention is quite enlightening, because they speak of a government in Venezuela, socialist-communist and compare it with Spain. [[Protests]] That is the message and ongoing provocation that the right wing in this country is trying to draw. But you don't care about Venezuela. By the way, there are more than 5 million people who have left the country. No, you don't care about Venezuela. If they had been interested in Venezuela, for giving a figure, instead of the sixteen aid or concessions they made in 2017 for international protection, they would have done something like those that the Socialist Party did in the government in 2019, which nearly reached 40,000, incorporating the humanitarian visa. [[applause]] Is that the concern for Venezuela? Sixteen applications for international protection were granted in 2017, not to mention 2014 – or 2015 – – zero. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u197	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u198	That is the reality and the concern of the People's Party, which comes here to give lessons on how a country should be run. Indeed, there is a reality in Venezuela with an inflationary crisis and a lack of opportunities. In that motion, which is, by the way, wrongly drafted, in paragraph 2, they speak of supporting the Constituent. What is the meaning of the Constituent? And then they put forward an amendment to correct that motion. That is criterion, rigour, responsibility and commitment to Venezuela. Of course, it has become very clear to us what you think about Venezuela and the only thing you are pursuing. Say it clearly, say it here, in the rostrum, that it is to wear down the government led by Pedro Sánchez, with Venezuela and with everything they get, because they have no other purpose. This motion does not contain a single measure aimed at facilitating the reality of the country, nor does it contain a single measure. That was very clear to us. I would also like, within this rhetoric of permanent confrontation, to explain you today, who speak of the Maduro regime, why the People's Party in the Government decided to restore diplomatic relations with Venezuela after having expelled the two ambassadors. That was done by the People's Party in 2018. What a lack of judgment and rigour of the People's Party, once again. Therefore, to the Socialist Party, no lessons. They use the figure of a minister - who, by the way, I have to say that he is developing and has developed an extraordinary work in the Ministry of Development, today of Transport and Mobility - José Luis Ábalos Meco, with the only thing that the People's Party does when it is in opposition in this country, which is to confront, confront, confront and, also, disinform. [[applause]] That's a bad practice that leads to confusion, no doubt. They do not conform, here they insult the Socialist Party, the United We can, the President of the Government, the Vice President, the Minister Marlaska. It's absolutely nothing; it's about wearing down, insulting, attacking. I repeat what I said earlier, there is not a single measure to end, to attack frontally, the serious humanitarian crisis in Venezuela. That is what this Government is doing. Nor have they talked about the work, for example, that Aecide does in Venezuela. Are they not concerned about the measures that this Government is taking in Venezuela to address this crisis? Don't you worry that President Sánchez on February 4, 2019 recognized Juan Guaidó as President-in-Charge, as reflected in the Venezuelan Constitution? What was reaffirmed by the Foreign Minister during Juan Guaidó's visit to Spain? That the Socialist Party - and I say it correctly - and also the Spanish Government denounced the assault on the National Assembly last January through the European Union? That's not what they say here. [[Rumors]] They don't say that here because they don't care. The only thing that interests you - and that is a very serious lack of respect for the Venezuelan people and the serious crisis they are suffering - is to use that country to attack a government. They have made the ridiculous in the European Parliament, the most absolute ridiculous. [[Rumors]] Yes, they have; they are no longer content to do so here, but they are also doing so in the European Parliament. You know what the High Representative told you: Study a little more. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u199	Thank you, Mr. Gómez. Mrs González Vázquez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u200	We accept ours. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs González. Is that what you're talking about? OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE SITUATION BETWEEN THE FRUIT SECTOR. [[File number 173/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u202	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group into the situation in the fruit sector. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor for the author group of the initiative. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u203	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the agricultural sector is dragging a structural crisis which has worsened dramatically in recent years; structural crisis, despite the fact that the sector puts the dish at our table every day, cohesives the territory by avoiding the depopulation of rural areas and brings an unpayable economic value to territories which, without them, would not have just life; structural crisis, despite the fact that it is a sector which does not differ between Monday, Saturday and Sunday, which rises early every day and puts all its efforts and passion in cultivating those lands or livestock farms, often inherited from its ancestors. Because of this strong crisis in the sector and in the midst of a wave of demands, he wanted to take advantage of the loudspeaker of the Chamber to move the claims of the fruit sector, and in particular that of the platform in defense of the fruit dolça; a platform made up of fresh fruit producers, entrepreneurs, agricultural organizations and municipal representatives of Catalonia and Aragón. Liquidations below the cost prices that these producers are receiving are very worrying; prices that are quadrupled when they reach the consumer. For example, the price of pears and apples reaching the consumer at more than 2 euros per kilo is being paid between 35 and 55 cents. The price of food should never be speculative. Never would large supermarket chains have to buy at a price many times below the market; and much worse, buy below cost prices, thus sinking not only to those engaged in agriculture and livestock, but to the whole territory where these producers live. We cannot tackle the fight against rural depopulation or prevention policies in the face of the effects of climate change without taking into account the fact that farms guarantee the fixing of population in rural areas and the comprehensive management of the territory. It is very worrying that new generations are abandoning agrarian activity. How do we want future generations to expect to remain on their territory with the inequality and precariousness of wages suffered by the agricultural sector? An analysis of the current situation in the value chain shows clear asymmetries in the bargaining power, which sometimes result in a lack of transparency in price formation and in potentially unfair commercial practices to competition, which distorts the market and has a negative effect on the competitiveness of the agri-food sector. We have prices that are subject to the interests of large producers and distributors, who control the value chain and its distribution. In this regard, the improvement of the agricultural sector must be considered as a strategic priority. It is because of this gravity of the sector that we ask all ministries. The agricultural and rural sector needs decent infrastructure, communications, services, a local response to the major global challenges. Because a sector such as agriculture depends on food sovereignty and the sustainability of the rural environment, while ensuring territorial balance and social cohesion in the rural environment, and - very important - has a key role in preventing and managing the effects of climate change. One example was the fire in the Ribera d'Ebre which, according to statements by the fire chief in Catalonia, this fire was stopped thanks to the farmland. We therefore want to make the following demands: campaigns to raise awareness and promote fresh fruit, subsidies or tax measures such as the adequacy of modules and the IRPF, fair prices for producers. Right now, nectarine and peach producers are paid 20 cents per kilo when the cost of their production is 40 cents. It is very important to make proposals in the medium and long term that can contribute to the recovery of the sector, but we believe more important those that can improve the situation in the short term. The implementation of a conversion plan should remove some 300 million kilos of peaches and nectarines from the European market. This is a structural and less costly measure than if an extraordinary withdrawal were to be resorted to. I'm not going to spread anymore. I repeat that courageous structural reforms are needed to reverse the current crisis; reforms that we hope can put in place a left-wing government, that is, treat this issue as a matter of State and provide it with all means and resources. If this is not feasible, the environmental and social costs in rural areas will be deep. Let's remember that a farmer needs 6 kilos of peaches to buy himself a coffee. I ended up thanking my party, the Republican Left of Catalonia, for the opportunity to make politics and establish dialogue with all political parties. As a result, this afternoon we reached a consensus by drawing up a compromise that we would like everyone to approve for the good of the sector. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u204	Thank you so much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, first of all, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also lay down its position, Mr Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u205	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to stress the importance of being able to deal here with issues such as this, issues which will appear to some to be of a lesser scope, but which are really the issues that condition the day-to-day lives of many people. That is why we are making a positive assessment of the motion that has been tabled, because it connects with reality - the reality of the street we are seeing these days is very intense in terms of farmers' claims - and it also connects with the plight of thousands of fruit growers, many of them inhabitants of emptied Spain. Farmers are victims of an unfair market that, as they are denouncing in the demonstrations of the last few days, makes the price that a kilo of peach had forty years ago, that is, 20 cents equivalent, in the provinces of Teruel and Zaragoza, the same price that they have received in the year 2019. The same price for one kilo of fruit that forty years ago, when production costs have multiplied by more than ten. It's really an unsustainable situation. We support paragraphs 3 to 7 of the motion and have tabled an amendment to points 1 and 2, which initially called for start-up plans, and we have changed to a modernization strategy and a request for reform of the Food Chain Act that corrects abuses. There is another amendment by which we refer to the need to require that EU imports of fruit be strictly applied to Community legislation, so that there are no cases of unfair competition as the requirement for food safety, plant protection products, waste or pest control is much lower. These injustices that we see repeatedly are making the life of the primary sector in the rural world very difficult, and the primary sector, as has just been said in this very rostrum, is the structuring mesh of all Spain that we call empty, which must be maintained and strengthened. These injustices also occur in other areas and as far as we are concerned there are paradoxes, such as that in the aid distributed by the CAP farmers in the province of Teruel receive half that other provinces bordering the surrounding fields. No one explains what this difference is all about. They are paradoxes of the CAP. In any case, many amendments have been tabled with which we have reached a definitive solution because most of them were on the same path, with which we will support the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u206	Thank you so much. The next item is Mr Botran Pahissa.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u207	We will support the motion. These are basically the measures that called for the demonstration that took place last Friday in Lleida. It is true that they aim to alleviate, or try to alleviate, an exacerbation of the crisis in the sector, but it is no less true that the problem of the agricultural sector in Catalonia, in the Catalan countries, in the Spanish state as a whole are structural problems, they are problems typical of what the capitalist system imposes in the field: among other things, of how the large chains - the Mercadona, Carrefour, Lidl, Aldi - take advantage of their position to go down the prices that they pay to farmers and against which we must propose a greater control of the food market; of how the citrus sector is also affected, for example, by free trade agreements with countries that pay much less labour and that is why they get lower prices and that affects in our country the Lands de l'Ebre and the Valencà Country. But then they are also specific problems of the Spanish State, since the price difference between what is paid to farmers and the final price is among the most pronounced within the European Union; it is one of the States in which the difference is greatest, I insist, between what is paid to the person who works the land and to the finalist trader. It is also a problem for the Spanish State that the fruit sector has never benefited from the common agricultural policies. For this reason, with support for the agricultural sector, the pageia, which is necessary to keep the territory alive and to move towards food sovereignty, we will support this motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u208	Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u209	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have you heard farmers and farmers on the street? Did you hear them? I do, and they're asking for solutions now. They cannot wait any longer, they are in a critical situation and we are in grave danger: not reacting in time and not letting the work that they have done in our rural world and in our rural areas continue. Today we met with Asaja, UPA, COAG, which are the organizations that have urged these mobilizations throughout Spain. Today there was a mobilization in Cadiz, in my province. We have heard them, they ask us for simple things, but, as the other parliamentary groups have said, they are long-standing problems that have not been solved by the governments that have been there, with which the situation is now much more serious and we need to react. When they have presented all their needs to the Government and called for them to address all the problems they face, the first reactions of the Government leave much to be desired. The first, that of Minister Planas - I miss him; I would have liked him to be here today -, that the first thing he did was to confront them with the distribution. It seems to us, at least, a lack of respect. Then, Minister Díaz's, who calls them to a meeting with the unions and turns out he takes them out at the last hour because he prefers to talk first with the unions than with the agricultural organizations. A new disrespect. We understand that this must be taken seriously and that the people who call these demonstrations, these mobilizations, must be in the center, and Citizens will always have them in the center. I say to the Government: they may need more than these first steps. We have seen that they have met again, that they have met with Minister Planas. But I tell you one thing: I come from Andalusia, thirty-seven years with the Socialist Party, thirty-seven years of advertising measures, promises, selling and then not executing. Let's hope this time they do, because it's hard for them to fulfill, the truth. Farmers need to improve a lot, and that is why last week we put forward a non-law proposal proposing a multitude of measures to alleviate this crisis that they are experiencing. They need to have better insurance lines that really ensure the realities of their cultivation. We need to be recognized, in capital letters, that they fight climate change: they are the largest sink of CO2. They also need to change their costs; that is: revenues, sales prices are thirty years ago; costs, from the 21st century. They need to improve their position in the food chain; right now they are the weakest link, and we have to protect them. We need to review the modules for which they tax in the agricultural sector. There are many more things they need, and this Esquerra initiative at first seemed to us to be focused only on one sector, when right now the crisis and farmers and farmers demand much more, they demand a much broader vision. But we recognize that the compromise amendment that we have tabled brings together the amendments that we have all tabled, and we believe that it does come close to our position, that it is to see the problem of the situation now, that it is a global crisis and that it must be brought not only to this sector, which is obviously very much affected, to the fruit and vegetable sector, but to the whole sector, to agriculture and livestock farming. In Citizens we are prepared to support all the measures aimed at improving the lives of all Spaniards, as I said in my first speech, and I say to all the parliamentary groups, to Esquerra in particular, that I hope that when we bring initiatives or make calls to get the Socialist Party to act swiftly they will also support us, because we will need them to comply with what is being presented in this House. As I have told you, my parliamentary group has been, is and will always be with Spanish farmers and farmers. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u210	Thank you so much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Hoyo, the Garden of Turia was set up at the initiative of Ricardo Pérez Casado, Socialist Mayor of Valencia in the 1980s. Rita Barberá dedicated herself to continuing this project. [[Applauds]] And, two, less hypocrisy of the People's Party with Rita Barberá. You threw her out and the day there was a joint session of the Senate and Congress made her the cruelest vacuum I've ever seen with a politician in this house. So less hypocrisy. I stick to the subject. Mrs Hoyo, do you know that it prevents exports of Valencian agriculture? His party's vote in Europe on trade agreements with Vietnam, South Africa, Mercosur. That is what prevents the exports of real Valencian agriculture. You are allowing massive imports of oranges and rice that do not meet the same requirements as Valencian products. I say to the gentlemen of VOX that I ratify: Hermann Tertsch voted in favour of the Vietnam agreement, Mr Buxade and Mrs De la Pisa abstained, and Mrs Aguilar voted against. We have tabled an amendment which calls for just two things: that the products that you allow to enter Europe from third countries meet the same requirements that Spanish farmers are asked for, the same ones, that is what we are demanding, and that before approving any trade agreement, a study be made of the impact that this represents on Valencian and Spanish agriculture. That does help real Valencian exports, not their vote. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u212	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Cañadell Salvia.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u213	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Today I debut as a Member of Parliament, my seat should be occupied by my colleague Jordi Turull. Before I begin my speech, I would like to express my support and solidarity to all fellow prisoners and in exile. I am the daughter and sister of farmers and farmers, I am mayor of the municipality of Termens, with 1333 inhabitants, in the region of Noguera; a territory where the primary sector and everything that surrounds it is vital for the economic and social development of our peoples. Without a healthy agricultural sector that allows professional farmers to earn a living as entrepreneurs in other sectors earn, our territory is sentenced to death: peoples without businesses, without services; in short, empty and abandoned peoples. We will continue with the problem of the demographic challenge. The motion that we are debating today, tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group, on the situation in the fruit sector, originates from the various working meetings held in the municipality of Alcarràs, Lleida, where something unusual has been achieved so far: the fact of joining the sector completely, from the various agricultural unions, Afrucat, the Federation of Cooperatives, the Platform in defense of sweet fruit, to mayors and mayors of different political formations, with a single objective and a single motto: Salvem la pagesia, defend the rural world. From Junts per Catalunya we subscribe to each and every one of the points described in the initial motion submitted by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, to which we submit amendments that enrich the text. In paragraph 5 of the original motion, which is now 7 of the compromise text, I would like to remind the Spanish State that it is at the top of the list of States which do not comply with the deadline for transposing the directives of the European Union. The deadline for the transposition of Directive 2019/633 is 1 May 2021. We hope that they will do so and that we will not increase the number of non-compliances. We propose two new points: firstly, to review the insurance system in fruit production, in order to promote a reduction in the cost that favours the widespread use of fruit production, and secondly, to combat the lateness in commercial transactions in the fruit sector, as well as those commercial practices aimed at delaying the payment of fruit protests to producers for several months. I would remind you that Junts per Catalunya will vote in favour of the compromise text, but I remind you, as I said earlier, that the sector is dying and needs urgent solutions. We must urgently call for collaboration in the state's uprooting plan, which was one of the points of greatest consensus in the meetings held weekly by Catalan and Aragonese farmers. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u214	Mrs. Cañadell, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u215	I'm finishing up, President. From Junts per Catalunya we wish to reach an understanding; we wish to be able to achieve the union of all the parliamentary groups in order to be able to respond, as urgently as possible, to the fruit sector, in this case, but also with a general view to the primary sector: the dairy sector, the cereals sector, the oil sector and so on. We are talking about a structural crisis that is coming from afar.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u216	Mrs. Cañadell, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u217	I'm done. But today the sector has said enough. I mean, solutions or solutions; whether these are for today, tomorrow will be late. Save the page, defend the rural world. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Chamorro Delmo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is an honour for me to intervene for the first time on this stand, representing with a loud voice the national sovereignty of all Spaniards. It is a pleasure for VOX to be able to participate in the debate on this motion. And not because it was presented by Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia, but because it is a motion related to farmers who are on the edge and who are going out on the street because different governments that have alternated in power - of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, with the support of Catalan and Basque separatists - have ruined their way of life leading to depopulation and precariousness to most of our national territory, which is rural Spain. We want to show from the VOX Parliamentary Group our solidarity with all the farmers who have risen today in Cadiz, Almería and Extremadura and all those who are rising, precisely because of the current situation in this rural world. VOX is with the national agricultural sector without any doubt. VOX is very clear about the commitment to the agricultural and livestock sector. And I also say breeder because certain animalist ideas are carrying out a frontal attack on livestock, ideas that are cultivated in formations like Squerra Republicana of Catalonia. VOX is also committed to promoting a national hydrological plan that benefits farmers from all over Spain for the distribution of a water resource that belongs to all Spaniards. A plan such as the one that was repealed by the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in exchange for the votes of the Republican Left of Catalonia, the same Republican Left of Catalonia that now wants to be shown as adalid of the agrarian sector. VOX also supports the production of cava throughout Spain, unlike the Republican Left of Catalonia, which puts the extreme and Valencian cava on hold in its parliamentary initiatives. VOX, unlike Esquerra Republicana de Cataluña, considers that the way to defend the agricultural sector efficiently is by uniting synergies of all Spanish producers through a solid Spanish national project that defends all our products, all our producers and the sector in a globalized world; that defends the interest of Spain by not offending the United States and other important importers but by negotiating and ensuring the interest of Spain and the sector as a whole, without sectarianism, selfishness or separations. However, we must say that we do not dislike this motion, since it is extrapolable to the whole of Spain for the fruit sector. According to the Ministry's data, the fruit and vegetable sector contributes almost half of the vegetable production in Spain and almost one third of the total value of agricultural production including livestock, with an origin value of 15.7 billion euros; more than 50% of the production is destined for export, and these constitute 30% of Spanish agri-food exports. In addition, Spain is the largest producer in the European Union and the fifth largest in the world. We agree with the reduction of taxation and taxes, as contained in this motion, for the agricultural sector and for the fruit sector in particular, as we agree with the reduction of taxes in all areas, especially in the agricultural and rural sectors, where fiscal and administrative obstacles along with the lack of birth and family support, the lack of infrastructure and the demonisation of rural culture, uses and traditions complicate the root of the population and lead to depopulation. We are for a free market but fair to all players, without unfair practices or unfair competition for the entry of foreign products that do not meet the same requirements as our domestic agri-food products or those made with slave labour. [[The lady]] We wanted to improve this motion with two amendments which, under the principle of reciprocity, urge the Government of Spain to reach agreements through the European Union with alternative markets, third countries, in order to achieve the excess of the fruit demand that we currently have in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u220	Mr. Chamorro, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u221	Yeah, I'll be right out. However, despite our support for this motion, we must say that it is a patch and that VOX is committed to an ambitious national strategic plan for the future of the field that takes into account all variants in all sectors. We attach great importance to our training in national food sovereignty and the primary sector as a geostrategic sector for Spain that needs to be protected and we are very aware of...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u222	Mr. Chamorro, please, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u223	Yes, President, I'm done. In addition, we take into account the constitutional mandate in article 130, which states that the public authorities will take care of the modernization and development of all economic sectors, in particular agriculture, livestock, fisheries and handicrafts, in order to match the standard of living of all Spaniards. In VOX we defend a living Spanish camp. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Some Members: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chamorro. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Marcos Ortega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u225	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, solidarity with farmers and farmers is relatively simple. Few professions are so worthy of value in their efforts, in their capacity, in their production, in what drives the economy of this country and in the contribution to exports at that second level of competitiveness at the international level. That is why my first words have to be in support of the sector, as the People's Party has always done. [[Applauds]] And look, ladies and gentlemen, I recognize that you have surprised me because last week, in the plenary, I really thought that the left also supported farmers and farmers, who also supported each other, but I have been believing this until today at five o'clock in the afternoon, where a motion was tabled by the Esquerra Group itself requiring a commitment to the Government, a commitment to structural and timely improvements. I do not know if from five o'clock in the afternoon until now, or if from Friday that the motion was registered until now, the peaches no longer have problems with the IRPF, neither with the Social Security, nor with the contributions, nor with the payments of the IBI, nor with the payments of the irrigation. [[Applauds]] They had to be solved, because in the transactional everything that had budgets had disappeared. Gentlemen of Esquerra, you give Mr Sánchez the government and do not give the gentlemen of fruit who are having a bad time or the IRPF. Make him look at it. [[Applauds]] It's okay to negotiate, but this is supported by anyone. No one has a problem supporting nothing, but that doesn't benefit anyone. From here I say to you that my group is going to present an initiative in which the urgent commitments and aid needed by farmers and farmers, and especially those of the sweet fruit that you have left behind this afternoon, are collected. [[Applauds]] I don't think this is your fault. They have made a piece of paper, both Mrs Granollers and Mr Eritja, no doubt. You wanted to support them, but this is the fruit of these seven ministries and three vice-presidencies that rule in agriculture in this country today, with which no one knows who rules, throw the ball between each other, and divide and conquer. But it is that the sector has a problem, and a very serious problem; someone has to say - and I think it has to be Mr Planas - to Mr Vice-President that when the minimum wage is raised that affects, of course, because it is a matter of balance, it is a matter of money, and someone has to pay it; that when we talk about animal welfare, who most support animal welfare, without any doubt, Mr Churches, it is precisely the cattle farmers who live on it, do not hesitate; with sending them to the street and saying that it is good that they manifest themselves do not solve anything, do not solve the problems and lose the working days they need to be competitive and to win. [[Applauds]] Look, meeting with the OPAs is as worthy as doing with any other union - today has been able to check it out - and should have done so last week, without any doubt. We also need to talk to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it seems that the decisions of the Government on the outside do not affect farms, and if they do, and if there are no tariffs and how other countries have negotiated directly and managed to lower them, our products cost 24% more than those of other countries because of the inaction of this Government, and because it has profiled and sought partners in diplomacy. [[Applauds]] I do not say that it is not necessary to be diplomatic, and diplomacy is important, but farmers and livestock farmers will be much better off if diplomacy is exercised with the United States than with Venezuela, I have no doubt. [[Applauds]] If we want to do diplomacy, let's see what happens to the Google rate, which surely looks very good, but let's see if it doesn't also have consequences for the weakest, for farmers and farmers, again, who are the ones who really strive for the economy of this country and why we all eat every day. Perhaps the most responsible in all this is the Minister Planas, without any doubt, who after two years in the ministry could have done something, besides living from inertia and is already running out and we see what is happening. But, in addition to that, he should speak with Minister Ribera, and with that he should speak long and stretched because, of course, the environment is defended and the People's Party is the first to defend the environment, but it does so from the impulse to the economy, to the rural economy and from the activity; from hunting, as a system of control of species to guarantee precisely the sustainability and our rural environment. Of course, the responsibility at the moment and the great concern of the sector lies in the none that is being done to agriculture, in the lack of commitment, in the lack of leadership and in the lack of European agreements.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u226	Mrs. Marcos, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u227	I'm finishing up. Having no European partners means that we have no capacity to seek alliances and today we are negotiating a very important issue for the sector, which is the financing of the coming years. I will tell you, Socialists: there is no choice between the CAP and cohesion funds, what needs to be done is to lead a union of countries, to lead so that everyone wants to increase the contribution that is made by the Member States rather than reducing the contributions to the countryside.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u228	Mrs Marcos, please, you have to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u229	Therefore, facts are love and not good reasons and amendments like this really do not help the sector. The other day in the interpellation it seemed that you cared about the countryside, but we have seen that you care much more about your negotiations and what interests your partners is far away, far away from our peoples and our rural environment. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, one of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Marcos. Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Good night. Mrs Marcos, endurance and vehemence is very good, but when citizens have to notice it is when one rules, because it seems that you forget. Very recently you were in the Ministry of Agriculture ruling and the crisis is not new in the sector. [[applause]] It's not new in the sector. In 2014, with the Russian veto, you were ruling and it took four years, until 2018, to present a plan of measures for sweet fruit. Four years to present a plan. Strongness and vehemence I insist - Mrs. Marcos, it's all right, you can go to all the demonstrations, but, as you will see, you are booed just like those of VOX. [[Applauds]] A spokesman for the PP in the debate on the previous motion said before: 'I am not going to speak for real, but for certainties'. If you had fixed the problem, if you had addressed the structural crisis in the sector, the sector today would not be on the street as it is, because you have left us a country, as you can see every day, on the street. Vulnerable collectives: pensioners, civil servants; ultimately, a group of people you haven't looked at for many years. For all these people, for all these groups there is this Government of progress, which listens, which serves and offers solutions that become concrete actions. Today the Republican Parliamentary Group presents a motion that talks about the problems of the fruit sector, and we thank you. We also appreciate the agricultural mobilizations that are taking place throughout the country because they are fair and because they raise public awareness. The Socialist Group has taken part in this motion. We have provided five very specific points, which for Mrs Marcos mean nothing and are going to present an initiative for the aid needed by the sector. Having presented the aid when you were ruling, the sector would have thanked you. [[Applauds]] Concrete amendments, concrete agreement, real and sincere commitment, as the Minister demonstrated here last week when he spoke about the agenda. Important changes in the food chain law are needed. The role of producers in the food chain needs to be strengthened, given that this percentage of producers involved in the distribution of the chain is higher. The concentration of supply must also be strengthened, as the Minister said, with a good law on inter-branch organisations. The fruit and vegetable sector does not have an interprofessional sector, it is the only sector that does not have it. Other measures, such as the CAP or the activation of European aid, are also reflected in the transaction, as well as in the sensitivities of other political groups. The ministry will also study how to collaborate with the different autonomous communities and hence last week's work meeting with the different agricultural advisers and advisers of the different communities. Too bad, Mr de Esquerra, that our Agriculture Adviser was not, because it is important to go to all the tables because we will only solve the problem if all the links in the chain are involved. Neither with a single measure nor within 24 hours will we solve this structural crisis; we must find comprehensive and structural solutions that will improve the prospects for the future in the long term. And that's where we're at. The Minister has an agenda and these days he is meeting with all those involved in the food chain, with Industry, with large distributors, with supermarket chains, with cooperatives, with trade unions and consumers. The Socialist Parliamentary Group this morning was also sitting with the organisation of professionals. And although it may seem to you that sitting down to work with the different actors involved in the chain is the normal thing, I will tell you one thing: this is the first time that it happens, so thank you, Minister, because you have mobilized all those involved in the food chain in search of dialogue solutions. [[Applauds]] And that's what it's about, it's about dialogue and it's about work. While some make noise and get very vehemently here in the rostrum, in the Socialist Party we continue to think about the well-being of the citizenry and to address the structural reforms that our country needs to continue to make progress, also the reforms in the field. Finally, Madam President, we want from here to send a message of support to all the agricultural families that have manifested themselves these days: count on our support. They called us "a band" in a derogatory way, and whoever did it is no longer there. But 'a band' also has a positive connotation, because it is a group of men and women, each with their ministerial responsibilities, who will help the Minister of Agriculture find solutions to this crisis. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we also have the score in the form of an agenda and we will do among all that soon sounds a good melody for the agri-food sector. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Mínguez. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u233	Thank you, Madam President. I will intervene very briefly to fix our position on this motion which has been tabled by Squerra Republicana de Catalunya and which, in our view, has two clear objectives. On the one hand, he wants to make known the serious problem of agriculture in general and the horticultural sector in particular, especially in Catalonia but also in other places, although coming from Esquerra Republicana I understand that they are concerned - and this concern is understandable - with the horticultural sector of their country. There are problems that arise for many reasons, some are already explained in the same motion and, above all, they were explained in the inquiry that took place last week. These are problems that we will try to visualize, talk and dialogue with the minister next week at his appearance, when he talks to us about his general outlines and the objectives his ministry has for these points. I am not going to repeat the reasons that have already been made here with weighty arguments and that make the measures proposed - some dramatic, some surgical others and most necessary - urgent. A little has been sweetened in the compromise reached between the different parties, which have agreed points in common, compared to the first version that had presented Republican Left and which was very dramatic in many respects and which raised issues that are very hard but very real. The text that has been agreed between the different groups in the background already proposes to consider how to collaborate with the autonomous governments, which was something that we had made clear from the outset. We believe that, for the proposed 10 000 ha conversion plan at the beginning, it is essential to enable within the framework of the new CAP reform a diagnosis of the overall situation of the bone fruit sector and to take the relevant measures from a global approach, taking into account both the producer sector and its structuring as well as market measures, relations with third countries and how to enable insurance. Above all, it is very important to our understanding to enable the different autonomous communities to implement regional strategic plans in order to establish policies adapted to the reality of each of the autonomous communities and their productive sectors. We cannot forget the capacity of the autonomous communities in this area, the capacity they have to contribute and to reflect their situation, because each one is different. I believe that the proposer will fully agree on this. With regard to co-financing and other measures to be taken by the different autonomous communities, they can be developed in the different regional strategic plans, and we continue to stress that they are fundamental in this area. We believe that the issue of taxation and taxation raised by the proposer is timely, because it is appropriate to make adjustments to taxation in terms of direct estimation, modules, etc. Each case is different and, with regard to taxation, it is appropriate to incorporate exemptions and bonuses according to the registered condition. You are also talking about regulating the sale of losses, and we believe that there is no doubt that the current rules prohibiting the sale of losses should be reviewed and that they should not be focused solely on the consumption thesis. I see in its integrated text that they have reached agreement and also include this issue to strengthen import controls on fruit. They also raise something that we believe is important, that a draft of the reform of the Food Chain Act can be presented that will in some way help to alleviate this situation of imbalance. In essence this is the reflection, it is the tip of the iceberg of a great problem that the agricultural sector has in its generality in the Spanish State; a problem that, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, comes in multifactor, that is to say, by many different factors, but that everyone agrees that the weaker sector, the producer, is somehow helpless many times and has to take measures that not only correspond to it. Therefore, the cooperation of the autonomous communities, the issue of how we raise the problem in Europe - because each European country has a different problem - the need to negotiate well, and so on, are fundamental issues, and I hope that from now on we will be able to go gradually, first by analysing them and then by assessing them and applying the most appropriate measures. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u234	Thank you, Mr Agirretxea. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u235	Thank you, Madam President. The situation in the agricultural sector has been unsustainable for many years, even when you were ruling, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. This is why for months we have been attending important mobilizations such as those that took place in León and Valencia, those that are going to be convened in Asturias and Catalonia and those that took place today in Extremadura and Andalusia, my land, where today farmers from Almería and Cádiz have gone out to the streets, but that last week were also those from Córdoba and Malaga and that on previous occasions they have been with great mobilizations in Seville and Jaén. And do you know why our country's farmers are fighting? For something as logical and as basic as the demand for fair prices in the primary sector as a whole, that is precisely why. Imagine that they invest all their resources, that they are indebted to take a business forward, but that they are forced to sell their products for a price that is below the costs of their production or even to sell them without knowing the price they are going to pay. It's a barbarity, isn't it? For this is what our farmers, farmers and livestock are working for, for an absolutely predatory economy that imposes unfair practices on them, such as selling as a result, which means selling without knowing the price at which they are selling, or selling at a loss, which is nothing more than selling products below the cost of production, a genuine barbarity. One example: producing one litre of oil costs 2.70 euros, but olive growers receive only 2 euros for sale; this is 25% loss per litre of oil. But I'm going to give you more examples of abusive practices. Tomato: price of origin, 45 cents per kilogram, consumer selling price, 1, 43 euro per kilogram; increase of 198 %. Pera conference: price of origin, 45 cents per kilogram, price of sale to the consumer, 1,52 euros; increase of 238 %. Cherry: origin price, EUR 1.52, consumer selling price, EUR 3.14 per kilogram; increase of 107%. The peach: price of origin, 23 cents per kilogram, price of sale to the consumer, 1.47 euros per kilogram; an increase of 539 %. Do you know who's taking those big profit margins? For mainly the big marketers and the fruit and vegetable plants. Those are the ones who take their benefits. [[Applauds]] This is the misery that our farmers are forced to sell and that is why intervention in the food chain and the transposition of the European directive to put an end to these unfair practices in the primary sector is so essential. Moreover, with regard to bone fruit, namely peach and nectarine, it is particularly important, owing to the Russian veto, that collaborative arrangements be initiated between the Autonomous Communities and the State and that a plan be drawn up promptly to adapt supply and demand and to address the rebalancing of production. Faced with the position of the right with regard to the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, I have to tell you that no, people working in the primary sector have absolutely the same right to a decent wage as people working in any other sector. [[Applauds]] The problem is not the worthy wage, ladies and gentlemen of the right and of the right, the problem is the tariffs imposed by ultra-right governments, such as the Trump government - in which both our parliamentarians and parliamentarians of VOX are fixed -, tariffs that are unjustly suffocating the wine, cheese and olive sector. The problem is practices such as loss-and-loss sales. Do you know the difference between a right-wing government like the People's Party and the progress government we have now? The difference is that we can now be proud of having a government that will finally take courageous steps to end these abusive practices by intervening in the food chain. We shall vote yes to this motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u236	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. A compromise amendment to this motion has been tabled and will be voted on in the terms of the compromise. We'll vote in a minute. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u237	We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies on the manner in which the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution is to be given. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; 148; 192 plus 2 telematics votes, 194.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u238	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u239	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Common, repealing the maximum time allowed for the investigation in the Criminal Procedure Act. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340, plus 2 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 249, plus 2 telematics votes, 251; against, 1; abstentions, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u240	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u241	We shall proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the course of the debate. No bill by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the implementation of the necessary measures to end the demographic winter, promote birth and protect the family as the core of society. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX and Mixto, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes; 138 in favour; 191 against; 11 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u242	It's rejected. Is that what you're talking about? OF THE PLURARY PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, RELATING TO THE AMENDMENT OF THE REAL LEGISLATIVE DECISION 2/2011, APPROVING THE REFUND TEXT OF THE LAW ON STATE AND MARINE MARKET PORTS. [[File number 161/000052]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u243	No bill of the Plural Parliamentary Group, concerning the amendment of the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2011, approving the consolidated text of the State Ports and Merchant Navy Act. We are voting in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the joint amendment of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 191 against, 148 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u244	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u245	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the reasons of the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda that led him to hold a meeting with Delcy Rodríguez, the commitments that were made on behalf of the Government of Spain with the regime of Nicolás Maduro and the impact of those commitments on Spain's relations with Venezuela, with the European Union and with our allies. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group into the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour 148 against 190.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u246	It's rejected. [[Applauds]] Is that what you're talking about? OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE SITUATION BETWEEN THE FRUIT SECTOR. [[File number 173/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u247	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the situation in the fruit sector. Voted in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist, Republican, Citizen and Mixed Parliamentary Groups [[Plural, Mrs Borràs and Mr Baldoví]] [[Mr. Guitarte]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes cast; 340 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-18-CD200218.u248	It was adopted unanimously. [[Applauds]] Good night. The meeting was suspended. It was nine o'clock and fifty minutes of the night.
