ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. On 26 October, the Government notified the Congress of Deputies of the adoption of Royal Decree 926/2020 of 25 October, declaring the state of alarm to contain the spread of infections caused by SARS-CoV-2. This royal decree, which was issued pursuant to article 116.2 of the Constitution, was transferred to the Constitutional Commission. Pursuant to Rule 165 of the Rules of Procedure and for the purposes of the Rules of Procedure, this item is submitted to the plenary session of the Congress. Also on 27 October, the Government requested the Congress of Deputies to authorize the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 926/2020 of 25 October, declaring the state of alarm to contain the spread of infections caused by SARS-CoV-2. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, both items will be discussed cumulatively. I should like to inform you that the proposals concerning the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm will be voted in person at the end of the debate, while the oral vote on the request for extension will take place at the end of the meeting together with the rest of the votes. I give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Health. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today I appear before the plenary of this House to report on the actual decree declaring the state of alarm to contain the spread of infections caused by SARS-CoV-2, approved by the Council of Ministers meeting in extraordinary session on 25 October and to ask them to extend it for a period of six months. Before I begin my exhibition, I would like to have a souvenir for the deceased and their relatives. On behalf of the Government, I would like to convey our condolences and affection to those who have lost their loved ones. [[Applauds]] We also want to show our full support to the people who are currently affected by the disease and their families, and especially to those who are currently in the ICUs. We all sincerely hope that they will recover as soon as possible. And in the same way, I would also like to express once again my appreciation and thank the professionals of the National Health System. We must continue to support, strengthen and care for health workers, who are performing their work in very difficult circumstances with an absolute and committed commitment. [[Applauds]] We must bear in mind that they and the health professionals are not only the fundamental part in the fight against the disease but also in the health care of the entire population. And of course, I would like to extend recognition to each and every one of the people who, from their respective responsibilities, also work to address this pandemic. Finally, I want to convey a message to the citizenry. The Government is aware, we are aware, that citizenship is beginning to be tired for months of making efforts and sacrifices, of not being able to do what it did before, hugging our families and friends. But this is not the time to relax measures. We are facing a few weeks, a few months, which are going to be very hard; they are going to be very hard because we have been living with the virus for a long time, relating ourselves differently and not always easy, and we still have a wide horizon ahead. It is true that there are still many uncertainties about the virus, but it is also true that in these months we know the measures that are effective to fight it: the use of masks, hand hygiene, maintaining the distance of safety, less personal relationships, less mobility, more ventilation and as long as possible of outdoor activity. A long winter is coming; we will have different parties to which we will have to adapt, but our certainty now is that one more effort is needed because it is about protecting the health of the most vulnerable, protecting the National Health System and protecting health professionals. They know better than anyone the damage that is capable of producing in the body this infection, and this is what we should all keep in mind. In short, what is now a matter of protecting all of us in order to protect the health of the population. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my presentation with a brief account of the situation since the state of alarm statement in March, until now, when I appear before you to report on the declaration of a new state of alarm, different from that at the time, and to request its extension for a period of six months. As you know, the rapid evolution of the epidemiological situation in March led the Government to adopt the state of alarm on 14 March. Given the many uncertainties that existed then, and that continue to exist, with regard to this virus, such as its severity and transmissibility, what we knew then is that mobility is one of the factors that most affects its transmission. We knew then that sufficient reduction in effective contacts could only be achieved by limiting population mobility and establishing widespread confinement with some exceptions. Our objectives at the time were two: firstly, to double the transmission curve and, secondly, to place it at a level that did not pose a risk to the capacity of our health system. I believe that there is now little doubt that the state of alarm decreed in March was decisive and effective for the control of the pandemic then, and this was demonstrated by the set of epidemiological indicators. To give just one example, in the week preceding the state of alarm statement in March the rate of weekly contagion increased by 35% and each infected person caused about three new contagions while by the end of April the weekly increase in contagion was 5%; by the end of May it was already 1.5% and by the end of June it was less than 1%. Once overcome as the worst moments of the pandemic and confirmed the favorable evolution of the epidemiological situation of our country, the Government decided to initiate the descalation and restrictions through the Plan for the Transition to a New Normality, which counted on the contributions of all the autonomous communities. The aim at that time was to progressively recover the activity by taking all necessary precautions and protective measures to prevent rebounds and avoid taking steps back. The plan, which was approved on 28 April, envisaged de-escalation as a gradual and asymmetrical process, but coordinated, on the basis of common epidemiological and health criteria. It established a total of four phases, with a minimum duration of eight weeks considering that we considered it necessary a minimum of fourteen days per phase, the time that allowed us to see the effect of the new measures on the transmission of the virus. It was also a plan that allowed us to deepen in the framework of co-governance under the principles of co-responsibility, cooperation and shared work, principles with which the Ministry of Health has worked since the beginning of the pandemic. During the one hundred days of the state of alarm in March, we held thirty-four meetings of the Plenary of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, close to half a hundred of the presentation of alerts and response plans and of the Public Health Commission, in addition to the fourteen conferences of presidents. To this should be added the sixty-eight bilateral meetings with the Autonomous Communities during the process of descalation. As you are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, the plenary of this House approved the sixth and final authorization for the extension of the first state of alarm on 4 June, so two weeks later, on 21 June, it ceased to be in force. The maximum duration of the plan, after several weeks of descalation, was expected until 18 July, when all the territories had been recovering activity at all the planned stages and minimizing risks. This was the Government's forecast, but we were unable or unable to find the necessary majority to extend the state of alarm until that date. At that time this House did not consider supporting the proposal and I would like to recall, because it is relevant, that at that time several autonomous communities were calling for the end of the state of alarm. I shall now turn to why the Government is presenting today an extension to provide a framework for stability to the state of alarm. In the last extension approved in June, a further step was taken in the deepening of co-governance, so that the autonomous communities that were at the most advanced stage of descalation had the utmost responsibility for managing it. In other words, the presidents of the autonomous communities entering that week in phase 3 were able to decide how to manage the rhythms and modalities of the return to new normality in their territories, including the transition to that new normality, which meant the end of the state of alarm in their communities. By virtue of the powers given to the autonomous presidents from phase 3, there were communities, such as Galicia, Cantabria, the Basque Country and Catalonia, which decided to move on to the new normality before. As you know, on June 21st, the whole country entered what was called new normality, after the orders of the state of alarm declined. At that time, it was evident that there was a need for urgent measures of prevention, containment and coordination that would enable us to continue to deal with and control the pandemic, and also to be prepared for any resuming of the volume of cases. To this end, the Government approved the Royal Decree-Law of New Normality of 9 June, agreed with the Autonomous Communities and supported in a majority by this House on 26 June. I would like to highlight some of the measures that it contains and that are still in force and are related to prevention and hygiene in different areas; early detection of cases and contacts for clinical follow-up, isolation and quarantine; guidelines for ensuring the provision of medicines and health products; the protection of residential centres for older persons or persons with disabilities; and the obligation of the Autonomous Communities to continue providing epidemiological information to the Ministry of Health. Similarly, at this new stage, while we in the Ministry of Health continue to strengthen coordination and joint decision-making in order to ensure the capacities that allow us to detect and act in the face of new outbreaks, it is the autonomous communities that are responsible for adopting containment and control measures, and I would like to stress that respect for the constitutional framework for the distribution of competences has also enabled us to continue to make progress in providing public administrations with a common framework and building a model of co-governance that strengthens confidence in the decisions taken. To organize this response in an effective and coordinated manner, the Ministry of Health designed the Early Response Plan in a scenario of control of the VOCID-19 pandemic, which is technically the National Plan to Combat the Pandemic, and which received input from several ministries, as well as from all autonomous communities and cities, and which was approved on 16 July by the plenary of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. The key objective of the plan is threefold: firstly, to design the basis for preparedness and response in the current scenario and in the face of possible future scenarios for disease control; secondly, to establish a risk assessment framework associated with available information; and thirdly, to recommend public health interventions proportional to the level of risk. This plan includes, among other elements, the establishment of a strategic reserve of protection equipment and medicines, the strengthening of influenza vaccination, which is currently under way, contingency plans to strengthen capacities at the level of care and public health by the autonomous communities, and the definition of epidemiological and care indicators to raise the level of risk in a territory and propose, where necessary, additional measures in coordination with the autonomous communities. I would like to stress that this plan, together with the Surveillance and Diagnostic Strategy and the Royal Decree-Law of New Normality, is the frame of reference that we have provided to all administrations to provide an effective and joint response to this virus. As I mentioned earlier, at this stage the Ministry of Health has a relevant role in the field of coordination, but it is the autonomous communities that are competent to adopt containment and control measures. The epidemiological context has shown us that in the different territories they have coexisted and coexisted very different transmission scenarios that may require different control measures. For this reason, each autonomous community has been adopting different actions on the basis of these different scenarios, as set out in the Early Response Plan and always with the support of the ministry. However, when the epidemiological situation so requires, the Ministry of Health has carried out this coordination work by proposing coordinated actions in the field of public health and by demonstrating the shared and coordinated work that we are doing together with the Autonomous Communities. Five packages of coordinated action measures have been adopted in this regard since August. The first, agreed by the Inter-Territorial Council plenary on 14 August, contains eleven control measures in seven different areas, three recommendations and an indication of compliance with the aspects included in the Early Response Plan. The second, approved for the start of the school year on 27 August following a joint meeting of the Interterritorial Council and the Sectoral Conference on Education, has a total of twenty-nine measures and five recommendations for implementation by the competent administrations. The third package of coordinated actions between the Ministry of Health and the Autonomous Communities was agreed on 9 September in relation to four areas: VOCID vaccination, case screening, coordination with local authorities and the launch of new rounds of the National Seroprevalence Study. The fourth package of these measures was adopted on 30 September, with coordinated public health actions aimed at municipalities with disease incidences well above acceptable national and international risk thresholds, increasing pressure on the care system and populations of more than 100 000 inhabitants. The last package was approved yesterday, 28 October, to respond to the situation of special risk arising from public attendance at professional sporting events of an international nature. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the Government's work in cooperation and co-governance since the end of the state of alarm decreed in March, it has also been working to provide the autonomous communities with tools to support the management of the pandemic. Firstly, I would like to refer to the EUR 16 billion VOCID-19 Fund. As you know, this is a non-reimbursable fund to help the autonomous communities combat the effects of the pandemic, primarily to finance the increase in health spending, but also investment in education, as well as to compensate for the fall in income and lay the foundations for economic and social recovery. Secondly, I would like to refer to the 5686 military members of the Armed Forces who have been made available to the Autonomous Communities to carry out monitoring and monitoring of cases and contacts, of which 1740 are already incorporated into these tasks. Thirdly, I would like to refer to the government-driven Radar COVID application, which, as you know, uses mobile technology to support the identification of close contacts, especially contacts that people do not know or remember. Right now, all the Autonomous Communities and the Autonomous Cities of Ceuta and Melilla have the technologically operational application in their territories and I can inform you that, according to the latest available data, more than five million downloads have already been made. I would also like to inform you that as of Friday 30 October the new version of the Radar COVID application will be interoperable with the rest of the European Union countries that are members of the European interoperability knot for contact tracking applications such as, for example, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Croatia, Denmark or the Czech Republic, among other countries. Fourthly, the establishment of a strategic reserve at the central level of protective equipment, diagnostic tests and medicines to support the strategic reserves of the autonomous communities, as well as the distribution of material that continues in those autonomous communities that need and request it. Fifthly, the Council of Ministers approved this Tuesday the draft General Budgets of the State, which arrived in this House yesterday. They are budgets that mobilize the most ambitious amount of public investment in our democratic history and that also take into account the difficulties of the rest of the administrations, especially by the part of the welfare state they manage. For this reason, an extraordinary amount of $13,486 million is allocated to the Autonomous Communities so that they can devote it to health, education and social policies. And sixth and last, the Government has made available to the Autonomous Communities all existing legal means. As the President of the Government reported on 25 August and has been stressing in successive interventions, all autonomous communities have had and have at their disposal the legal tool of the state of alarm. In this regard, last Friday the President of the Government reiterated this offer. Just a few hours later, that same day, ten autonomous communities and the Autonomous City of Melilla had already requested the approval of the state of alarm. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to highlight the coordinated response document for monitoring the transmission of COVID-19 agreed by the plenary of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System on 22 October, Thursday. As you know, the document is a technical development of the Early Response Plan that I have commented on earlier and establishes a framework of common criteria based on scientific evidence for the interpretation of combined epidemiological indicators and the adoption of pandemic containment measures based on four levels of alert, from 1 to 4, being the fourth highest level. This document is of great importance for a number of reasons. Firstly, it is a document which, like all those prepared by the Ministry of Health, has been developed and agreed by the technical officials of all the autonomous communities and agreed by a very large majority, seventeen votes in favour and two abstentions, in the plenary of the inter-territorial council, once again demonstrating the value of co-governance. The second idea that summarizes the importance of this coordinated response is its technical basis. The available scientific evidence, the views of experts and technicians from all territories and the international recommendations of the World Health Organization, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the Member States of the European Union have been taken into account through the multilateral meetings coordinated by the European Commission. National and international experience in the management of the pandemic has also been included. It is important to stress that because of the uncertainties inherent in the pandemic the accumulated experience has immense value. Therefore, to define the thresholds of the indicators, they have been taken into account their usefulness in capturing the most important aspects of the situation, always based on scientific evidence and international standards, and also the experience accumulated by all the autonomous communities and the Ministry of Health in the evolution of each of them. Precisely because it is based on available science and lessons learned, the document is a living guide that will be adjusted as more information is available or new national or international scientific evidence is generated. The third and final reason that explains the importance of the action guide is its adaptability to different situations. In other words, coordination and a common framework are ensured in which each territory can adapt its response to its specific epidemiological and health situation, but also to its demographic, mobility or social vulnerability context. It should be noted that the coordinated response process is adaptable to scenarios of increased risk of transmission such as the current ones, but also to scenarios of reduction of risk in which we hope to be able to progress progressively as the measures applied are effective and we can double the curve. What are the two main blocks of indicators? The first block are epidemiological indicators on the level of transmission, including the number of cases detected per 100,000 inhabitants in the last 14 days, the percentage of positive evidence and the traceability of cases. An incidence below 25 cases per 100 000 inhabitants and a positivity of less than 4 % is considered as low risk; above 25 incidence and 7 % positivity is estimated as medium risk; from an incidence of 150 cases and a positivity of 10 % is considered high risk, and if the incidence exceeds 250 cases per 100 000 inhabitants or the positivity is considered to be very high risk. At the time of the declaration of the state of alarm, and so continues today, almost all Spanish territory is at high or very high risk at the epidemiological level. The second main indicator is, as you know, the degree of occupation of hospital services and intensive care units. High risk is considered if the number of beds occupied by patients with COVID exceeds 10% in overall hospitalization and 15% in cases of ICU beds and is considered to be very high risk if occupation by COVID exceeds 15% in hospitalization and 25% in ICU. According to these parameters, a large part of the Spanish territory is at high or very high risk levels. We cannot lose sight of the objective that we now have ahead of us, which is to return to the levels of indicators of the new normality that we had in the summer, below 25 cases per 100 000 inhabitants in the case of the cumulative incidence of fourteen days, below 4% positivity and below 5% occupation of ICUs. It is true that it is a progressive objective and that we start from very high levels, but it is the horizon that we have to move forward, consolidating each step according to the precautionary principle. That is why the common response framework considers it necessary to maintain the indicators for at least 14 days in order to go down from one level to another. I want to be clear, the current scenario is very worrying. We are at the gates of winter and the transmission season of flu and other respiratory viruses, a high-risk and highly unstable scenario. The international environment is also unstable, with very rapid growth and daily records of contagion in the vast majority of countries in our environment. Ladies and gentlemen, precisely because of this situation of risk and instability at the gates of winter and because it has been requested by several autonomous communities, the Government has approved this new state of alarm, with a broad temporal horizon allowing a framework of stability for the autonomous communities to activate or deactivate the measures they consider necessary in the light of their epidemiological evolution. From the epidemiological point of view, the reasons for their approval are fully justified. The situation of the pandemic was at the time of the declaration of the state of alarm - and it remains today - at very high risk. We are fully immersed in the second wave of the pandemic, as are the European countries in our environment. The COVID-19 extends around the world at high speed every day. It already accounts for more than 43 million people officially affected and, unfortunately, more than a million people have lost their lives all over the planet. With the change of station, our country, like all of Europe and other parts of the world, is seeing its situation worsened: it is rapidly increasing the number of contagions and increasing, albeit more slowly, the hospital pressure. Over the past 14 days, our country has a cumulative incidence of 452 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, with an upward trend for three weeks, after another three weeks of slowing down and stabilizing the incidence. Apart from the Canary Islands, which has - to say - a very favourable evolution, the rest of the territories are, as I have mentioned, at a high or very high level of risk at the level of incidence and average positiveness of the tests, indicating a high transmission of the virus. And while lethality continues to remain below 1%, our country has recorded 35,466 deaths, of which 761 are in the last week. In terms of care capacity, we are at high risk, as the average occupation per COVID is 25% in intensive care units and 14% in general hospitalization, and there are several territories above 35% in ICU occupation. These figures place our health care system at a high level of care pressure. We must reduce this pressure by forceful measures to avoid a saturation of the system of all routine health care, which is already beginning to have signs of significant tension in certain territories, and this has not yet been recovered from the postponements of the first wave. Ladies and gentlemen, like our country, the whole of Europe is already taking steps to limit mobility and also personal contacts, which are the main causes of increased contagion, as we have learned in recent months. Like Spain, countries such as Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands or Italy, to name but a few, have implemented restrictions that affect the hours of movement or the attendance of public establishments. The state of alarm is the constitutional tool for emergency situations and the situation we live in is emergency. This second wave is certainly different from the first, not because the virus has changed, but because we act differently. Now we've detected before and we've detected more. We are now better prepared and our health system has strengthened its capacities in record time to adapt to the situation. We have moved from an average of 220 weekly diagnostic tests per 100,000 inhabitants in April to more than 2600 in the week of 16-22 October. The peculiarities of this second wave make this new state of alarm have adapted and specific characteristics very different from those of the state of alarm that we had in March and April. Ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to detail to you the most important elements of this new state of alarm, adopted at the request of ten autonomous governments and the Autonomous City of Melilla. First, the delegated authorities will be from the beginning the presidents and presidents of the autonomous governments and the body of cooperation and co-governance will be the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, where both the Ministry of Health and the health advisers of each and every autonomous government, including the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla, are represented. Secondly, and generally speaking, the freedom of movement of persons is limited from 11 a.m. to 6 a.m. throughout the country. It can only be circulated in this time zone because of the justified causes set out in the rule, such as acquiring medicines, fulfilling work or professional obligations, returning to the home or caring for adults or minors. This restriction on freedom of movement between eleven o'clock and six o'clock in the morning is applicable throughout our country, with the exception of the Canary Islands which, as I said earlier, are currently maintaining a positive epidemiological situation. The presidents of the autonomous communities can modulate this time zone and decide that the starting time of this limitation is ten or twelve o'clock in the evening and the completion between five and seven o'clock in the morning, and they are already doing so. Thirdly, the presidents of the autonomous communities may decide to limit the entry and exit of their territories, in all or part of them. In other words, they can confine the entire territory of their community or define the confinement of a lower territorial area, as Navarra, La Rioja, the Basque Country, Aragon, Asturias, Murcia, Andalusia, Castile and León, Castile-La Mancha and the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla have already decided. This restriction on the entry and exit of persons from confined territorial areas also has exceptions, such as assistance to health centres, educational centres or compliance with labour obligations, among others. Fourthly, the presidents of the autonomous communities may limit the stay of persons in public or private spaces to a maximum of six persons, except in the case of persons living together. This is already happening in most of the autonomous communities. Why are these limitations established? We know from the information provided by the Autonomous Communities, which are the ones that know their epidemiological contexts best, that family and social encounters are one of the main transmission hubs in this second wave. They account for almost a third of the outbreaks and a quarter of the cases of known clusters, hence limiting the size of groups in all spaces. We also know, through various studies and the information provided by the Autonomous Communities, that in the night time zone there are more risk contacts linked to social encounters because protection measures are relaxed. The limitation of night-time leisure facilities achieved a beneficial object at the time, but has now been replaced by meetings of large groups in private homes. The limitation of nighttime circulation is intended to limit nighttime contagions. Finally, the aim is to reduce the mobility of the virus through the possibility of perimeterly limiting those territorial units that the autonomous communities consider in order to prevent the spread of the virus from high-impact areas to low-impact areas. Ladies and gentlemen, lastly, I would like to develop some points concerning the duration of the state of alarm. As you know, the Council of Ministers approved this Tuesday a proposal for an extension for its debate and, if necessary, for today's plenary session of this House. Our proposal is to extend the state of alarm for six months, that is, until 9 May. The proposal also includes that the Government, through those who speak to them as Minister of Health, should be accountable to this House every fifteen days and the autonomous governments are called to do the same in their respective parliaments, as authorities delegated to the state of alarm. I move you that by changing this pattern of accountability, the Government is in favour of the President appearing before the plenary of this House every two months to report on the government's data and efforts regarding the implementation of the state of alarm and that I myself, as Minister of Health, request my appearance before the Health and Consumer Committee for the same purpose on a monthly basis. And as the President announced in this House yesterday, the Government is also in favour of formula 4 + 2, i.e. after four months of this extension, the Conference of Autonomous Presidents will be able to make a proposal to the Government to lift the state of alarm, subject to the favourable agreement of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System in view of the evolution of health, epidemiological and socio-economic indicators. Thus, on 9 March, the Government and the communities would decide, depending on the epidemiological situation, whether to withdraw the state of alarm decree or continue for two more months until 9 May. At this point, I would like to express my appreciation to the parliamentary groups that have already shown their support for the extension proposed by the Government. Let me now turn exclusively to your ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group. I know you saw the state of alarm in another way a while ago, I won't go in there if you don't want to, but I would like to remind you that what we voted on today is a constitutional response with constitutional measures to an exceptional situation to protect the health and lives of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, you must reflect today and take a decision; and you can be right - I would like that - to be right. In the face of the second wave that is striking forcefully across Europe, the Government is doing the same as the majority of governments do and support most of the State-sense opposition throughout Europe: making available to the autonomous State all economic, material, digital and legal means; providing us with a common strategic reserve; setting together with the autonomous communities the common criteria to combat the second wave, with common indicators and measures according to the level of risk in each territory; and adopting a legal measure provided for in the Constitution for these situations - the state of alarm - to support the measures that the autonomous communities must take, according to the epidemiological situation in each territory and thus respond to the request of a large majority of the autonomous communities that requested it. In short, what the government has done is to respond with loyalty and commitment to this second wave that strikes the whole of Europe to double the curve of contagion and avoid the saturation of our health system. This is what the government is doing. Now let's see what the opposition is doing. A majority of the opposition has chosen the path of collaboration, union and support, compatible with constructive criticism; another party, the ultra-right, has chosen the path of confrontation and division; it lacks the People's Party to decide whether it is in the constructive opposition or not, whether it is a State party or with the ultra-right. They have to decide whether they want to consolidate the new political position they launched last Thursday in this very House. Honestly - and I say this humbly - I hope for the good of everyone to support the extension of this state of alarm. I ask you to join forces with the Government to give a strong response to the second wave that threatens the health and lives of citizens. As you said last week, it is time for adult politics, for real politics, for consensus; we need to act together against a common threat, and the best signal we can send to the Spaniards is to see their representatives leaving aside party disputes and supporting this measure as exceptional as it is necessary. Why is a broad temporal horizon necessary? There are several reasons: firstly, for the need to provide us with a framework of stability for the taking of forceful measures that bring us closer to our goal of doubling the curve. Based on such high epidemiological indicators, the approach is to reduce these figures and keep them lower, thereby reducing transmission. It must be borne in mind that lowering epidemiological indicators when they are at very high levels is more difficult and requires sufficient time to implement the necessary measures. In this regard, the World Health Organization itself states that it is prudent to plan the implementation of measures for several months, based on previous experience in different countries, and we therefore want to be cautious. Secondly, unlike the first wave, we face an increase in diagnosed cases associated with a seasonal period that favors the transmission of the virus. The fall and winter months are seasonally the seasons of respiratory viruses such as flu, which are associated with a high frequency of health services. According to data from the Ministry of Health, there are about 13 million respiratory infections in Spain each year, with a significant concentration in the months between December and March. Thus, acute respiratory infections diagnosed in primary care grow very significantly in the first quarter of the year. Some of these infections will be complicated and will require hospital care. Influenza and pneumonia also affect the elderly in a very important way. To this increase in seasonal care pressure until March we must add that we start in October from high care pressure by coronavirus, as we have seen and pointed out before, and therefore we must be cautious. Finally, we must bear in mind that we are in a situation of high uncertainty until the first doses of a safe and effective vaccine that allows us to cope with the pandemic arrive. We also know that the process is very complex and that even after several vaccines have been validated as effective and safe, it will be necessary to produce and distribute large volumes of doses that will be progressively administered to the most vulnerable groups. This unprecedented and complex process makes it very difficult to think that we can achieve sufficient vaccination coverage to guarantee group immunity in the coming months. In short, the pandemic deadlines are long, we are in a scenario of instability and we still have a long way of living with the virus in which we have to be careful and offer a time frame that gives the greatest possible security and stability in order to be able to adequately protect the health of the population. As already announced by the President of the Government, the deadline is not immobile. If we can overcome the emergency fully before, the state of alarm will cease to apply immediately. No one, neither the Government of Spain nor the autonomous governments want to establish a single limitation that is not essential to bend the pandemic curve and protect public health, that is, the health of all, but that is the deadline that we consider necessary today on the basis of science, experience and prudence. And given the gravity of the situation of the pandemic in Europe and Spain, given the contrasted effectiveness of the constitutional tool of the state of alarm for the fight against the pandemic, which favors the implementation of control measures quickly and effectively, and given the majority request of the autonomous communities for its entry into force, I formally request all parliamentary groups to have this exceptional measure with overwhelming parliamentary support. It is demanded by citizens to give a horizon of tranquillity, tranquillity and certainty to their day-to-day life; it is also required by economic actors to give a horizon of predictability and job security to businesses and also to jobs; it is required by the Autonomous Governments and the Ministry of Health to work with the necessary tools for the time it takes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already had eight months of pandemic; eight months that have included confinement, fear, loss of loved ones, changes in the way we behave, work, economic difficulties, reduced social contact, so essential to our lives; eight months of difficult uncertainty that translate into feelings of demotivation, stress or apathy. The World Health Organization has called it pandemic fatigue, and has defined it as a de-motivation of people to follow the recommendations of health authorities and to stay informed or reduce the perception of risk. It is natural and human to feel this way in the face of a prolonged public health crisis. The World Health Organization therefore recommends that Governments understand citizenship and its difficulties and develop strategies that enable people to live their lives by reducing risk, by seeking to be clear, by promoting consistency and simplicity of action. All this is also what the common coordinated response framework and a state of alarm with a broad temporal framework is all about. The pandemic fatigue of the population also places us all in a position of responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, to unite efforts and protect the health of the population. We must strengthen the instruments of coordination and cooperation in the field of public health with a majority and stable agreement that gives tranquillity and a horizon of stability to citizens in this time of uncertainty, until the vaccine or effective treatment arrives. That is why - I conclude already - I ask, ladies and gentlemen, all the parliamentary groups to support the extension of the state of alarm. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I would almost say that it is a round of allusions, I did not intend to intervene - and I thank you for the flexibility of the Bureau Presidency - but the Minister of Health has addressed my bench for more than ten minutes in his speech to justify the constitutional exceptionality of six months of approval of the state of alarm. I want to make three basic reflections: the first in the health field, the second in the economic and social ravages that have occurred and the third in the legal field that we are dealing with today. Minister of Health, Mr President of the absent Government, what a envy it is to observe Chancellor Angela Merkel and the President of the French Republic, Emmanuel Macron, addressing the nation yesterday in a brief and concise way to say that they are leading the response to the coronavirus pandemic! How envious! [[Applauds]] That they do not parapet in the departments or in the Länder or in exceptional legislation and that they take action when the figures they have there are much smaller and the first wave affected them much less. Minister, you say that effectiveness has been countered. Is 60,000 deaths to you that do not even recognize your Government, even though the Carlos III Institute, the INE or Social Security confirm these figures? Is it for you effectiveness to exceed the million infected, the worst number in our environment? Is it effective for you that we have the sad record of infected toilets, who have had to protect themselves in the first wave with garbage bags and diving glasses because you said it wasn't necessary to wear masks? Is it effective, Minister, that we have not been able to go abroad to make a purchase of protective material and that we have lied to international bodies in the number of tests? [[Applauds]] Is it effective that we have been reprimanded by both Oxford University and Cambridge University and Johns Hopkins, or have we been ashamed to hear the chronicles of The New York Times or CNN about the lies of this government? I expected a little more humility and, above all, respect for the dead who died in solitude and their families and, right now, for all Spanish people, especially the elderly, who do not even know if they will be able to celebrate Christmas with their loved ones. Yesterday I was listening to Angela Merkel and Mr. Macron talking about saving Christmas. Perhaps for you it is something that is not relevant, for many traders yes, for many older people yes, and for many families yes, and, above all, for a nation, which does not understand why the Government once again stumbles upon the same stone of foresight and incompetence, but also of deception. How can you say, Minister, that the scientific community and the committee of experts tell you that it is good to apply this exceptionality for six months? But what experts? If the spokesman, Mr. Simon, said it was too long to publish it and it's been a week without saying a single name. But what experts? If you have been hiding that supposed scientific criterion for eight months, which, on the other hand, would be frankly wrong after the results that Spain has had! How can we now be saying that your measures have been effective in the first wave when we get rough with the second wave? And let's go to the second one. On 5 July, his boss, the absent president of the government, Pedro Sánchez, said that he had defeated the virus, that we would go out on the street to enjoy the terraces and the new normality, with that arrogance that characterizes him and with a hall of applause. Have we defeated the virus when you just said that the second wave requires drastic and exceptional measures for six months? Had we defeated the virus that you say requires a great deal of effort and that the opposition has to commulgate with mill wheels and jump to the toaster of the Constitution, the European regulations and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court? What are we left with? Was it the Basque and Galician campaign? Was it that we already had to make an advertising campaign and go on vacation to Doñana or Lanzarote and parapet in the autonomous communities? By the way, from here I send my gratitude and thanks to all the autonomous presidents, not only of the People's Party, who are facing the pandemic as Pedro Sánchez does not do, despite the chaotic health, economic and judicial management. [[applause]] Therefore, Mr Illa, as the brother of three doctors, a little respect for the effectiveness and the measures to be taken to continue the success of the first pandemic. A little respect, more protection and a little more humility. [[Rumors]] On the economic issue, we have known the public accounts and today the spokesman, Mrs Montero - it is another reason why I have encouraged myself to leave - said that the People's Party does not have a defined criterion with this. Look, we were up until ten o'clock last night saying that we had the possibility - I told you yesterday also in the control session to Mr Sánchez - of reaching an agreement to have a position of three hundred seats in front of a second wave of the pandemic and, also, to face with some responsibility the economic ravages, which has already recognized the EPA the other day with seven hundred thousand more stops in the last year, and which you yourselves recognise with budgets - ruinous and absolutely demagogic - in which you have to expand the expenditure by 53%, the deficit will go 11% and the GDP will fall 11%. Therefore, why don't we do surgical measures, as Germany is doing, as Korea did or Japan did, to start confining or protecting the elderly, sick, to have an effective tracking application and more tracers so that their contacts can also be controlled and yet not drown the economy again? The other day, a well-known businessman said that opposing health and economics is like opposing breathing and eating. Of course, health must be protected, for us it is the first thing, and, therefore, today we have announced that we are going to abstain, so as not to leave behind any legal mechanism, arriving late and badly at the autonomous communities, which are facing the face and now needing, because of the inaction of the Government during the last few months, to make perimeter confinements. [[applause]] I wish they had had a reinforcement in primary care; I wish they had had a reinforcement in the staff of doctors; I wish they had had a national pool of staff or, for example, a strategic department of protective equipment. You have spoken of how many millions of masks I do not know; to see if we see them and to see if they lower the VAT on masks, Minister, as in other countries around us. But this from saying right now that we have to do the same thing again from the first wave because it was very good, we can't admit it. And with regard to the legal framework, Mr Minister, Mr President-in-Office - or Mrs Lastra, who now occupies her seat - the problem we have is the following: you make use of Article 116 of the Constitution on the state of alarm, according to the Organic Law 4/1981, which states in Article 12 that the state of alarm will also have to be developed through the regulation of infectious diseases if it is for medium-term issues. Even the Organic State of Alarm Act itself says that it is something exceptional and therefore valued over time, but it also says that autonomous communities cannot be authority if it is not limited to the territory of their own autonomous community. If there is more than one autonomous community, you and Mr Sánchez must be the competent authority to regulate that state of alarm. Let's go to constitutional jurisprudence; nor did the air traffic controllers make it clear that it was possible to go to a month; he simply said that a parliamentary agreement had no need to value it. Well, that is why we said yesterday that it will not be the Constitutional Court, but that we will have to go to the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe. Because what the Constitutional Court says is that it trusts Parliament because it is the body that constitutionally has to ensure compliance with constitutional exceptionality, as stated in article 116 of the Constitution, which figures it in extensions of fifteen days; it does not say exactly fifteen days, but proportionality is understood; if for the state of emergency it is a maximum of thirty days with an extension, and the state of alarm marks the first extension in fifteen days, it is understood that successively that period must be ratified by the Courts, as Pedro Sánchez said in his parliamentary debates in each and every one of the extensions to which he submitted. Therefore, Minister, Mr Sánchez is absent, what we have been saying is that the separation of powers and the role of the legislature cannot be stolen from the Spanish rule of law. This House represents national sovereignty, not the Interterritorial Council of Health Advisers, not even you, Minister, who have been issuing ministerial orders with which you are violating fundamental rights of Spanish national sovereignty. It is this House, it is these Spanish courts, which in wartime stopped meeting, which have been from the Carrera de San Jerónimo to the Oratorio de San Felipe Neri, which will have to determine which rights and freedoms are limited by a pandemic or by any circumstances, Mr Illa. [[Applauds]] That is in the constitutional field, but we are going to the European framework. What did the European Council say with the signature of Mr Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón in May 2020? That it is recommended that Member States come out of extraordinary legislation and comply with ordinary legislation. This was said in May, at that time only Poland, Hungary, Croatia and Spain were under a state of emergency, alarm or health emergency, depending on the country, without a date fixed at its end. Then came the Venice Commission, which reminds you that it is the body of the Council of Europe that ensures democracy in the Member States. The Venice Commission in its resolution or report 987 of 2020, speaking of states of emergency without temporary limitation, referred to the cases of Hungary and Croatia saying that Parliaments should be kept as the legislative bodies that lifted those states of emergency, by the way, something that has been allowed in Croatia and Hungary. Why not here? Why do you steal from Parliament for six months the possibility of lifting it and sell it as a triumph that yesterday you negotiated with Esquerra Republicana that every two months you will come here to report, but not to vote on the viability of this state of alarm? That is to say, they parapet in the autonomies so that they are the delegated command when the law does not allow it, and the duration justifies it in non-existent scientific experts and, moreover, they say that this is done by all European countries. No, sir, no European country does. What we are saying - as the Commissioner for Justice also said in May - is that we must get out of exceptionality, Minister. Moreover, we must do so with the ratification of the Spanish courts, within the separation of powers from the rule of law enshrined in our Constitution. And that's why we proposed something very sensible; give a margin of eight weeks because we validated what you say and the autonomous communities claim; save the three bridges, let it be two months to see if the curve is flattened, that the Christmas campaign can be saved, let it not lead to the absolute depression of the largest population of our country, which already sees that until 9 May, perhaps you or the autonomous presidents do not allow your children to see them, or also, above all, that allows not to break the Spanish and European regulations. Eight weeks in which Mr Sánchez - he and not you - would have to come here to the plenary, not to the Commission, every fifteen days, as he did in the first wave. You've rejected it. We also proposed that, in addition to that state of alarm of only eight weeks and, of course, with the ratification of the Courts every fifteen days as constitutionally mandatory, the legal plan B that we have been claiming for six months could be committed once and for all. Why is it so difficult to make - as Mrs Calvo told me in the negotiation of the fourth extension of the state of alarm - alternative legislation? Why can't it be done - as Mr Campo said in the Senate - through the amendment of the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction Act so that the ratifications of the higher autonomic courts of justice are ex post and not ex ante to the resolutions of the autonomic governing councils? Why can't a pandemic regulation be made, as Mr Sánchez said, during the debate at the European Council in July? Because, perhaps, you like to govern very much in constitutional exceptionality, in which you take advantage to put Pablo Iglesias in the CNI, in which you take advantage to cease generals of the Civil Guard, in which you also take advantage not to have to make contests in public contracts - by the way, to see if you explain the commissions that have been given to the environment of the PSC to buy defective material and false tests - in which the action on social networks is controlled. [[applause]] We do propose a legal amendment thinking even that the current Organic Law 3/1986, on Special Measures in the Field of Public Health, could be used to limit mobility. Or what is believed, that the law on which Angela Merkel was based yesterday is more extensive than ours? No, it's practically the same. Still, we say, okay, we modify it, if you want. Since at least they have not limited the sole command for all - of course, as ex-Minister Pastor did here with SARS and ex-Minister Montserrat with Ebola, they have no longer questioned that the Cohesion and Quality Act of 2003 and the General Public Health Act of 2011 allowed for a single command, but they did question the limitation of mobility - I told you that the National Security Act can be applied, the Civil Protection Act can be applied, the Organic Act of 1986 can be applied, but we will still amend it, if you want, simply adding two paragraphs analogous to the WHO International Pandemic Regulations. Perfect, because it has been six months, it is a legal amendment with urgent procedure that could be made in twenty days and, if you do not want to remove the deadlines you have taken for the budgets, in eight weeks. That's also why we set that deadline. They didn't. Can you explain why? Would they not like the autonomous communities, as their higher courts of justice demand, to be able to use ordinary legislation, since they so much like to parapet in it? Why haven't they made that change? Why don't you commit yourself today, in the absence of President Sánchez, and say: okay, how can this state of alarm be lifted not because the representatives of national sovereignty say so, but because the health advisers say so, let us say today that the legislative amendment of the proposed law that we have registered on 5 August, so that we will never again have to resort to constitutional exceptionality, enters the quota of the next plenary. Why don't you say so? Because, perhaps, they like to rule at the stroke of decree; they like to rule without legislative counterweight; they like to rule without judicial control; they like to rule as they please, because they rule very badly and because effectiveness has been demonstrated in the number of contagions and deaths in this pandemic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u5	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u6	I'm done, Madam President. I am deeply sorry that Mr Sánchez is not standing before the courts today. And see if I'm naive that, out of institutional responsibility, I had decided not to intervene. The President of the Government does not intervene, because we do not intervene. It will be a technical debate. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u8	It will be a debate in which the Minister of Health will simply give figures in which he may try to convince us, after not wanting to negotiate anything and not having assumed what is already something objective and which everyone is saying about Spain. But no, they come here to accuse the People's Party and to stand up to us that the autonomous communities have to use the only legal mechanisms that you allow them to use, leaving them abandoned and not assuming with courage, with determination, with determination, with effectiveness and, if I am allowed, with patriotism, the fight against this pandemic. We are going to do it, but we will continue to demand it with this critical abstention so as not to leave the health field uncovered. And in order not to endorse the legal abuse that you have done, we will let the Autonomous Communities do their work and we will do ours, in this case, in the Venice Commission, because neither here nor the Courts will let them do their constitutional control work. Thank you very much, President. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) and Members of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. First of all, I would like to denounce the absence of the emperor, who has decided that this debate that is going to affect the life, freedoms and economy of the Spaniards in a lethal way over the next few months - I repeat - did not go with him; that he had to be sitting here for a while, but that he did not have to go up to the rostrum to discuss with the groups. Because, ladies and gentlemen, today the Government is seeking that this Parliament, illegally and unconstitutionally, grants it full powers for six months to limit the freedoms of the Spaniards, the freedoms of movement, of assembly and of expression, as we have seen these days. And, in addition, he intends to do so by washing his hands, delegating that total power, curiously, to the autonomous communities, in a gesture of irresponsibility, because here we have seen the Vice President of the Government give blows saying that he took over the residences, and then, what we have had is tens of thousands of deaths, and the Vice President of the Government saying that it was the fault of the autonomous communities, which is exactly what the Government intends to do at the moment. [[Applauds]] The emperor intends to accumulate the greatest power that any ruler has had throughout democracy, by the way, with fewer seats and has not even been worthy to rise to the rostrum, in an unacceptable lack of respect for this Parliament and for all the Spaniards. There is no tyrant in practice either in the rostrum or in Parliament at this moment. In addition, we knew that the so-called leader of the servile opposition was not going to rise either; he only went up by allusions, but he also felt that he did not have to intervene because Mr. Sánchez was not going to do so, until they talked about them and decided that they had to rise to the rostrum. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, in the most important debate to be held in this House in the next six months, without the face of shame, we are being brought here with a proposal for a state of emergency of six months which does not solve the health problem, as they did with the succession of extensions in the previous states of alarm and which is further sinking our already battered economy, and which does not want maximum powers believes that it has to appear before this House. And Mr Casado goes up to the rostrum to oppose with his words and to abstain with his votes, once again, and to say that he will defend the Spaniards in Venice. [[Applauds]] Minister for the Opposition, there is more opposition out there, in the words of Mr González, who has said that this state of alarm is a bloody madness; there is more opposition out there. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] But let us forget those who do not oppose, let us go to those who do. Mr. Simon - who did not doctor - said in February 2019... [[A Member: 2020.-Rumors]] How nervous the gentlemen of the People's Party, I have not really seen a single group in this House that interrupts more intensely, that makes more protests and behaves in a less polite way. [[Applauds]] Mr.Simon said in February 2019: Spain is not going to have, at best, more than some diagnosed case; a disease that was not overly communicable. Ladies and gentlemen, there were 50,000 deaths in the first wave, 50,000 deaths miscounted. However, Mr Simon is not in prison, and even worse, Mr Simon remains in his post, and in the meantime Mr Sánchez told us that we had defeated the virus. Mr Simon appears in September and tells us that the second wave will not have the impact of the first, and now you come with a state of alarm of six months; others say it is only necessary two months. They are completely insane, they are acting from irresponsibility and depravity in politics by sinking the economy of the Spaniards and ruining millions of them, as already seen in those who have just enlarged the lists of unemployment and those who are on the waiting lists of the social eaters. [[Applauds]] They bring to this House an illegality, a state of alarm of six months; a covert state of emergency that seeks to limit freedom of movement and freedom of assembly. You cannot do this, and we will now announce that tomorrow we will bring an appeal of unconstitutionality before the Constitutional Court, for the temporary scope and the nature of the state of alarm that you bring to Parliament today. [[applause]] Because what you are looking for with the six months is to steal, once again, parliamentary control. By the way, we resorted to the Constitutional Court with a feeling of defencelessness because we already did so in the previous state of alarm and the Constitutional Court, which you and you appoint, has not yet answered. [[pointing to the bench on the left]] [[pointing to the bench on the right]] And he hasn't answered, probably, because you and you name him and we hope you'll listen to us. [[pointing to the bench on the left]] [[pointing to the bench on the right]] [[Applauds]] If the appeal had been raised by you, or by you, there are magistrates or party teachers there who would have already looked after your interests. [[pointing to the bench on the left]] [[pointing to the bench on the right]] We have not gone to defend our interests, we have gone to defend the interests of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] However, the Constitutional Court remains silent, but it will have to hear in that rostrum permanently our complaint about the collaboration that the judges are making with an undercover state of emergency. In cutting freedom of movement and assembly, you have been adding censorship on social media these days, wanting to limit criticism of the government and turning everything into hate messages. Of course, in the face of criticism of health management, you put the Civil Guard to investigate messages on social networks. They talk about hate permanently with everything they don't like. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you one sentence: Uncontrolled immigration reduces wages, threatens our well-being, exploits foreign labour and contributes to the financing of the mafia. Are we going to be able to say this on social media, ladies and gentlemen? I am saying this because what I have just read is a tweet, it is a message on the social networks of the Swedish Socialist Party, with which you are in Europe, of the Swedish Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] For this is what you are banning in Spain, this is what in Spain you say is a message of hatred and this is what in Spain you say is a message of far-rightness, what your colleagues in the Swedish Socialist Party say. [[Applauds]] The curious thing about what you bring us today, which only believes your irresponsibility and wants to wash your hands, is that you claim that arbitrary and dictatorial power for your de facto confederal regime, to satisfy your separatist accomplices. That's why they come here to achieve a six-month state of alarm and then hand over power to the autonomies, when what they really want is to hand it over to the Basque Nationalist Party and the coup that rules in Catalina. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what you are proposing here today is a delegated and somewhat ridiculous dictatorship, we are being proposed today by the Canton of Cartagena. The photograph of Ursula von der Leyen with the presidents of the autonomous communities is a terrible ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen. [[shows a photograph]] This is not a country, this is a bad joke, this is the image we give in Europe: one, with twelve flags; another, with none, and having seventeen interlocutors in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, this is absolutely unacceptable and gives the measure of the image that you are launching from Spain on the international stage. [[Applauds]] The state of alarm that you propose to us, like the brutal confinement of 2019, is a disproportionate measure, is an arbitrary measure and is a useless measure, which only aims to numb, anesthetize and tame even more a Spanish society that is already tired and that is already desperate. Worst of all, you, who talk about social division and confrontational messages, are the ones who have created two Spains; only you. Here, the Spain that imprisons her, and out there, until they lock her up in their homes, is Spain incarcerated. Here, Spain that raises salaries in Congress and also in the government, and out there, Spain ruined, completely ruined with the blinds of the downed business. [[Applauds]] Here, Spain that goes without mask in full state of alarm to the 'fistojota' of the political and media establishment with the Minister of Health and the Minister of the opposition included, and out there, the ruined Spain; out there, Spain that does not even allow him to fire his dying relatives; out there, Spain that has to go to the funerals with strict security measures and that has to sort out which relatives come to fire them in their last moments. [[Applauds]] You have created two Spains and we do not want to be part of your Spain, ladies and gentlemen. What a picture of the other day at that party that you came to almost collectively! What an image of shame, classicism and impunity! [[Rumors]] The Spanish suffered and some, in full state of alarm, of fiesta. All they needed to say was that phrase attributed to Maria Antonieta: If they don't have bread, eat cakes. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote no to this state of alarm because it is ineffective from a health point of view - you have already starred in the most severe confinement, together with the highest mortality rates in the world - and because it is a brutal injury to the Spanish economy, to which VOX has brought solutions that you did not want to hear and which a week ago were ridiculed by the President of the Government in this rostrum; certainly, solutions that Mrs Merkel has just announced in the same terms in Germany. [[Applauds]] This Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, should defend life and employment, not guarantee death, ruin and contempt to the Spaniards, which is what you are leading right now. Millions of Spaniards no longer feel represented by you because you lied to get to where you have done it and because you do not want to give them back the word. Give them back the vote, give them back the word, give them back the prosperity, give them back the freedom because all that has been stolen from you, ladies and gentlemen. This vote on the state of alarm is nothing more than the record of the latrociny that you are playing again, because in Spain, ladies and gentlemen, houses can be occupied; parties and banquets can be organized, if you invite ministers like the one of Health or the one of the opposition; you can violate our borders, and the invaders, many of them infected, are given accommodation, they are given money until they get tired and run off to the street. In Spain, tributes can be paid to serial killers with the permission of the Government. In Spain you can enter from abroad without PCR, but the Spaniards cannot leave the house at night, the Spaniards cannot manifest, the Spaniards cannot even manifest what they freely understand, because they are considered messages of hatred. It cannot be said, for example, that the Vice-President, who was always going to live in Vallecas, has moved, and that the popular voice has baptized him as the Marquis of Galapagar, because even this is censored in this Parliament. You're not a government, you're a dystopia. That is why we will vote no, ladies and gentlemen, and we will do so with all our strength, with all our conviction and with all our conscience. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u13	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Our country continues to experience the worst epidemic in a century and we are in the midst of a worrying second wave, whose effects on the health and economy of the Spaniards are terrible. In the midst of this twofold tragedy, health and economics, we are experiencing a third epidemic; a third epidemic of hatred, lies, noise, which is irresponsibly seeking to sow gossip and confusion at the worst moment. That is why, in addition to taking the necessary measures to protect our country, I believe it is an inescapable moral obligation of all people who are temporarily in politics to turn to the citizenry and to tell the truth in the face of noise and confusion, to convey certainties. I think it is an inescapable moral obligation and that is just what I am going to try to do humbly in my intervention, to convey some of the certainties that are being revealed in these terrible circumstances. First certainty - already said the Minister of Health - the epidemiological situation is serious. All statistics indicate this, but let me mention just one of the most worrying. In two weeks we have gone from 10,000 inpatients by COVID to almost 17,000 inpatients by COVID, a chilling 70% increase in two weeks. That in this situation there are those who continue to commit themselves to war against the Spanish Government on account of the epidemic is simply unqualified. Second, the mobility restrictions that allow you to adopt the state of alarm serve to stop the epidemic, and hospitals without doctors or luxury parties at the Casino of Madrid serve exactly the opposite. By the way, Minister, you are honoured to have acknowledged the mistake, something very unusual in politics, something that once again shows that we are not all the same and something that I want to acknowledge from here today. [[Rumors]] I wish Mr Casado and Mrs Arrimadas would apologize too, but I don't really have much hope. [[Applauds]] Mobility restrictions, as I say, serve to curb the epidemic, and we know that, because with it we are stopping the epidemic in March and April, and we know that because that is what is being done in all the countries of the European Union, also in a situation of alertness, some even more than our country, in this second wave. Third certainty, and consequence of all of this. For our parliamentary group it is clear that the Government's decision to declare the state of alarm, first, and to request its extension for six months, second, is the right decision. That is why we are voting in favour of the extension requested by the Government. Having said that, there is a fourth certainty - and I want it to be said in this House -. The vast majority of our people have acted and continue to act with enormous responsibility in a very difficult situation. That's why I want to reiterate from the United Nations. We can be proud of that vast majority of ordinary people who, day after day, do the right thing to protect their own and all others. That is why we will not tolerate the marking and stigmatisation of either migrant people or working-class neighbourhoods, as the PP has done by Mrs Ayuso's mouth, nor by young people, as the media do every day. They were neither ninis during the financial crisis nor are they responsible for the spread of the virus now. [[Applauds]] In a country with more than 30% youth unemployment, any political or media spokesperson who wants to say something about young people has to start by apologizing. Although I am convinced that the Government is doing the right thing, I do not escape that what we have ahead is going to be hard and will require new sacrifices. That is why I want to send from this rostrum a very strong embrace and millions of thanks to that immense responsible and decent majority of our people; millions of thanks. Fifth certainty, and in contrast to the above. In these months we have learned that freedom for a privileged minority and its political and media spokesmen means freedom to do whatever they want, although that means harming others: freedom to have money in tax havens; freedom to insult reds, homosexuals and immigrants; freedom to mistreat the waiter; freedom to make noise with the motorcycle; freedom to contaminate; freedom to go from bridge to play in the full pandemic. [[rumors]] They are not the liberals of Cadiz; they are rich, capricious and mischievous children. We already knew, but now we've seen them making the libertarian revolution convertible. [[Applauds]] Sixth certainty or clarification, one thing is the measures taken and the other is the legal instruments used to implement them. These weeks ago, the same measures have been taken in different territories using different legal instruments. This is obvious. That is why the fact that we are voting today to extend the legal instrument until 9 May does not necessarily mean that no measures will be extended until that day. The measures will be decided, as has been said, by the Autonomous Communities on the basis of the evolution of the epidemic. Those from parliamentary forums or from the media deliberately confuse legal instruments with measures, state of alarm with confinement, are playing dirty and are trying to deceive the Spaniards. Seventh certainty - rather, it is an absolute obviousness - the dichotomy between health and economy is false. The countries that have been hardest hit by the epidemic are also those whose economy has been hardest hit. It is very clear - very evident - that if one does not take restrictive measures in time, the epidemic is out of control and more decisive measures must be taken later that cause even more damage to the economy. Protecting health is protecting the economy, and those who lie to us saying that one has to choose between one thing and the other put the two at risk. Eighth certainty, the'magufo', the terraplanist, the paper cap Albal have left it, fortunately, on the far right. The judeomasonic conspiracy, Bill Gates injecting you with 5-G-controlled nanorobots, the only scientist in the galaxy who has discovered that the virus was manufactured by the Chinese, and that curiously, it's financed by Trump's guru, all that ridiculous and anti-scientific junk has been left by VOX. It is one of the many things that VOX has stolen from PP and Citizens, because we have to remember the conspiracy of the deserts far from Aznar and the Black Peones of Girauta about the worst terrorist attack in our history. Possibly the best definition of Trumpist neofanism, son and partner of PP and Citizens, is announced in negative: they are the opposite of the Illustration. Ninth certainty, we don't go out with reactionary conspiracies. We're betting on the real thing and what works. This has led to the strengthening of public health and social rights as a whole. From this we come out recognizing that neo-liberal dogmatism of austerity and cuts is an ideology not only cruel, but also failed and recognizing that we need the State to guarantee the right to housing, the right to a minimum living income or a decent pension when old age comes, and that all that cannot be paid by those who are old, but that it is necessary for those who have the most to contribute more. This terrible epidemic has consolidated the certainty that in times of crisis we have to increase public investment extraordinarily, which Mr Edmundo Bal, of Citizens, the other day wanted to disqualify in this Chamber as a terrible socialcommunist practice calling it 'expenditure, expenditure, expenditure'. Mr Bal, that is exactly what the draft budgets that the coalition government approved this Tuesday and that you now say you are looking forward to trying desperately to escape from the VOX bite. Bring that: 'expenditure, expenditure, expenditure'. Progressives call it public investment. It also brings the certainty that it is not only the decent thing, but also that it is good for the economy, because that working people have rights and have money in their pockets means that it increases internal consumption, which is one of the main engines of the economy in a country like ours. That neoliberal austerity and cuts work is an already ridiculous bubble as Soros' conspiratory salad, Bill Gates, the 5G and the Chinese virus. This certainty is not only of the United Podemos and of the coalition government, but they know it and say it from the European Commission to the International Monetary Fund and the Pope of Rome. Tenth and final certainty. PP and Citizens are locked up by the far right in Columbus Square, for shame and horror, by the way, of the conservative and liberal family in Europe. This is it. Mr Casado can be reinvented with a moderate speech, but a few days later the deputy who came out to insult us all to this rostrum on the occasion of Operation Kitchen already called the president of the government dictator on social networks. Mrs. Arrimadas can say that she wants to end the rift - Mrs. Arrimadas, nothing less - and at the same time she has the unofficial spokesman for Citizens in the media, Mr. Singing, saying in The Sixth that the President of the Government is foolish - literally -. Mr Casado and Mrs Arrimadas can claim the centre and consensus of the Transition, but they vote alongside the far right to remove the plaque of Largo Caballero, democratic president of Spain and victim of Nazism. They are trapped by VOX and the motives are easy to understand. The first is the discursive motive. PP and Citizens have been doing and saying many of the things he now does and says VOX, only with softer ways and more sibilian tactics: territorial confrontation with Catalonia, anti-feminism, using the extinct terrorist band ETA for everything, flirting with racism. All this did not invent VOX, this coffee was already served by PP and Citizens to its voters; they loved them for coffee and now prefer the coffee only well loaded, double and without sugar that Abascal puts on them. The second reason is mathematical. The governments of PP and Citizens in Murcia, Andalusia and the Community of Madrid depend on the autonomous deputies of VOX. PP and Citizens cannot stop being partners of the far right because that would mean losing most of their territorial power. It's that easy. Right now - and I conclude - we have to be responsible and serious to bend the virus and protect the economy of families and businesses. You and I are in those, Minister, but I fear it is impossible to count on PP and Citizens for that task. The reason is very simple, VOX has them locked in the square of Columbus and the square of Columbus only one thing comes out: the a for them, the a for us, the a for you, minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]] Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. I wasn't planning on going out either, but I'll improvise, like Mr. Married. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] I begin by denouncing yesterday's day, starting one more day, denouncing one day of shame for the Civil Guard and the judiciary in this country, and there are already a few. I begin by denouncing the arrest of our companions simply because I am independent. [[Rumors]] Okay.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u18	You accuse China, Soros, Bill Gates, Putin... That's it! They then complain that they do not vote for them in Eurovision. Stop being ridiculous, please. [[Applauds]] Either we stop the country or we run out of country. It makes no sense to open your hand to activity so soon; well, just one, that you are managing the state of alarm with the virus data in one hand and with the phone of the employer in the other. There's only one thing worse than a confinement, two confinements. Do not use the exceptionality of fear as a lever to autocracy, whether consciously or unconsciously. Four things, four ideas, four warnings we made to them at the end of April this year in the third extension of the first state of alarm in front of that first wave of the virus and, seven months later - which looks like seven years - and with dozens of deaths and some of the worst contagion data in the world, here we are debating and approving the second state of alarm in front of the second wave of the virus. The only thing the Republican Left Parliamentary Group expects is not to be saying the same thing in the debate of a third state of alarm in front of a third wave there by the month of May 2021, that is, squandering, once again, the enormous collective effort of an entire people in something as hard as a confinement. Ladies and gentlemen, the excess of prudence will be forgiven, but the samples of unconsciousness will never be forgiven. Today the delay or incompetence in decision-making does not make us lose votes, today the delay or incompetence in decision-making directly makes us lose lives; here is our responsibility. Here no longer matters who or how the story is won; fuck the story, fuck the story. [[Applauds]] And fuck the experts, the gurus of demoscopy, of WhatsApp and Twitter. Today, it only matters who or how the virus or death is won. All right, ladies, all right. It is enough of this miserable struggle to throw the dead into the head; it is enough to show that the dead are state or autonomous depending on the flag we wave. It is enough to open stone cardboard hospitals without doctors, the same ones that opened airports without airplanes. It is already true of lessons of patriotism of those who cut in health, in Castilian and in Catalan. It's already about judicial war, street feuds, and TV lies. It is already true of unfulfilled commitments such as that of the Government, which was going to reform the existing legislation so as not to have to re-use an instrument as reactionary and exceptional as the state of alarm. It's already worth a deep state facha and its pack coups with the calendar in hand. It's enough to imprison independentists. And all right, above all it's worth a government that shuts up in front of this and plays every week to: I'm what there is, I'm the best thing there is between what's bad. Okay. It is absolutely unacceptable for you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to have here today the intention of adopting a suspension of fundamental rights as enormous as that which is a state of alarm without spending a single time for six months per parliamentary seat, that is enough. [[Applauds]] It is important that we have to square up a number of groups in this House every week in order to make them twist their arms to, supposedly, the most progressive and dialogueal government in history in things so first of all democracy as, if you want to confine people, you have to explain to people in parliamentary places. We repeat this again: the right and the right must not be the excuse for the left of this House to approve everything without any criticism of the Government; the right and the right must be the excuse for the Government to want to agree everything, to dialogue everything with the left of this House. You, in this October, which reminds us of the worst of April, cannot announce something without raising the phone not even once; you cannot, because, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, one day you will simply run out of luck. And the alternative is these people. [[Applauds]] In politics, as in life, there are times to talk, there are times to theaterize and there are times to silence, to squeeze teeth and to negotiate, to love and deserve a state, and we want and deserve it. We must have a sense of state and we have it of our own. [[rumors]] Ours! [[Applauds]] Republican Left doesn't want to hide or lie or lie. Ladies and gentlemen, today there is very little room for magic, very little room for magic. What is happening today is a terrifying day to day, very hard, but it must be managed on the street and in parliaments, not just on Twitter. We are not a small party nor are we an opposition party, Esquerra Republicana governs, despite who weighs it, and governs the present and, above all, wants to govern the future. Left Republican, given the data of contagion in Catalonia, asked - yes asked - the only legal tool available to it to take the necessary measures to protect the people - I repeat, to protect the people - against death: a state of alarm. Four days later the government announced it and Republican Esquerra has again today put its parliamentary force as the first Catalan force in this House for less than seventy-two hours, which has given us, to change some of the enormous democratic shortcomings of this state of alarm. And we say this clearly, if this state of alarm is more specific, more scientific and more decentralized, if this state of alarm looks like an egg to a chestnut to the former is by force, it is by negotiation, not only ours, but also ours, of groups such as the Republican Left of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Esquerra's yes is as good as this. One, President Sánchez, thanks to the negotiation and thanks to politics, will appear every two months in Parliament to explain and submit to the public debate that corresponds to the height of the gravity of the moment and its measures. Two, Minister Illa will appear every month, apart from the appearances he has committed by law, in a parliamentary committee to explain and submit to the public debate that corresponds to the height of the gravity of the moment and the measures. Three, after four months of this extension, the Conference of Autonomous Presidents may make a proposal to the Government to lift the state of alarm if the data so permit. And, four, reinforcement and expansion of the social shield for people. That's what allowed the negotiation of Republican Left. [[Applauds]] Democracy; ultimately, democracy. Whoever again says that Esquerra Republicana gives his votes to the PSOE, goes to the Barcelona Parliament to say so. [[Applauds]] Wanting to control this state of alarm means that Republican Left wants it to last short? No, no, It means that Esquerra wants it to last what it has to last, how it has to last, with whom it has to last, for what it has to last and under the democratic parameters it has to last. That simple. But it makes no sense for us to protect people from a virus without protecting them from the misery, exclusion and precariousness that this will entail. For this reason, we advance that we will pose battle throughout this second state of alarm to debate, vote and approve a whole package of social measures that rescue people and not pieces of cloth. There's five of them, but there's a lot more. One, strengthening of the health system, rent moratorium, universal basic income and suspension of evictions. Enough rich in cocktails, and poor destitute. Two, in the face of projected declines in GDP of 20% or 25%, profound fiscal reform, with a courageous wealth tax, a courageous financial wealth tax and a courageous financial transaction tax, ladies and gentlemen. We repeat it once again, we do not ask you to be very left-wing, we simply ask you to be very brave. Three, urgent and permanent regularization of the migrant group. [[Applauds]] Let's fill this second wave of doctors and nurses, not military. Four, creation of a structural poverty fund of EUR 800 million for the territory managed by the territory. And, five, aid, moratoriums and waivers for SMEs and self-employed people. I'm done with two warnings. The first, that the frenzy for saving the Christmas campaign does not pass us over as the frenzy for saving the summer campaign passed us. Reopening in spring to save the summer brought us death and closures in autumn and winter. There are no accounts or balance sheets worth a single life. Too rapid a reopening and too slow a trace of cases have led Spain today to be one of the worst countries in the world in managing this crisis. Second warning. The discussion about the first state of alarm was long, thick and dramatic. That March 14, 2020, we were hallucinating. Today we are more aware of what we are facing and how to do it. But be careful, maybe we, maybe politics or maybe the political class are more cautious, but people are tired, people are much more tired. Continuing to cut freedoms and make life even more precarious, without pushing social and economic aid to stop the shock, can bring the worst, and the worst is that these people seem allied to the working class. On the left, do not give the discourse of social protection to the far right. Public spending, working less to work everyone, producing what's needed, because we only have one planet, and redistributing everything. May the worst year of our lives be worth it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u19	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. I was going to say good morning, Mr President, hoping that he would have addressed the plenary. We have seen that he was, that he did not intervene and that he used the minister of sparring. It's been a visa and I haven't seen it. The rumor had circulated that he would not even be present, and it seems that his words of yesterday, Minister, have been taken literally: the best distance is not to be. The same thing happened last week, when during the motion of censure he did not dignify himself to listen to all political groups. Within his policy of permanent imposture, he could have tried to make us believe that he has some respect for his ladies and gentlemen, that we are his equals in this House. To someone who considers himself socialist this I say should not be alien to him. Today we are debating a real state of alarm decree, but for the president, unlike other European premiers, it is so important that he is a while away, just looking from the barrier and leaving. We are in a critical situation, unimaginable just a few months ago, and faced with a future that the minister himself has said is quite unwise, and the president of the most progressive government in history is, does not speak and makes a mutis for the forum, without listening to any proposal. All in order. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Let's analyze the entire sequence. The Council of Ministers meets on Sunday to approve the state of alarm that we are debating today, which was very extraordinary but which turns out that it was not done on Saturday because the president had irremovable commitments. We have already seen the photos, in many of them they were seen without masks, without keeping the distance of safety, but I suppose this should not be important either. Then we ask the citizen that yes, that they have to make efforts, that the mask is mandatory, that they limit mobility if it is not essential, that the meetings be limited, but I suppose that being a government or a Madrid elite all these instructions do not go with you and serve only for others. Look, resigning isn't a Russian name, which now that they've put them in fashion may be confused. [[Rumors]] To resign is a verb that conjugates much more often in the rest of Europe than in Spain. To resign, for example, is what Irish European Commissioner Phil Hogan did for skipping sanitary measures at a mass dinner in a golf club. No resignation is expected here. Spain is different, if we know. None of the 149 vips of the Madrid elites who attended the private event while the rest of the citizens complied with the curfew decreed by the Government will practice the present indicative of the verb resign. But the health situation in recent weeks has turned the state of alarm into a state of emergency. The COVID virus is counterattacking with virulence and that is why it is so inadequate, so inopportune and so reckless that with these behaviors we run the risk of spreading also - and rightly so - the anger virus and the demoralization virus in the citizenry. At least you, Minister, are honored to have apologized. They're so Republicans that I didn't know if they were going to use the classic and help: I'm sorry, I'm wrong and it won't happen again. On the other hand, you textually said that many citizens have not understood it and I want to tell them that they are right. But it's the opposite, Mr. Illa. The problem is that many citizens have understood this. They have fully understood this hypocrisy, this frivolity and is irresponsible, taking into account the sacrifices that citizens are being asked to make and the pain that many families are suffering from the pandemic. That is why this government may have proposed a state of alarm of six months to avoid having to give many explanations; explanations that in the case of President Sánchez today will literally shine for his absence. They are not going to be simple hearing problems, as I had yesterday, that sounded quite cheap excuse not to talk and not to want to hear about repression, of the repression that we independents in Catalonia suffered with the new operation of the Benemerita that I denounced yesterday and that we will not stop denouncing for the injustice that it entails. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] We are convinced that there are more effective and rational models than the alarm states that present us. In spring we told them that we were not against the state of alarm, we were against their state of alarm. That is why we have tabled amendments calling for the Generalitat to have all the real, genuine, good powers. Because it is not enough to say that you get things, you have to get them in order to govern and solve the problems of citizenship. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, we are going to vote in favour of extending the state of alarm, as we have done on every occasion that has been requested. We have not changed at any time of opinion or criterion depending on whether it was more popular or less popular. But you came here on 15 October to report on the state of alarm in Madrid; we told you that since that ineffable press conference of the flags with Ayuso on 21 September they had been lost many days, which still had our support, but that they would have to end up here again declaring a state of national alarm. And so it is. Now you will again count on our support, because it is responsible and because it is necessary. It is not so much loyalty to the Government as loyalty to the country. But I have to tell you, Minister, that we are concerned. The situation gets worse again and the state of alarm is clear that it is necessary but not enough. A government cannot be like a cup of Mister Wonderful asking moral people for victory, a government has to offer security and protection to citizens. And that responsibility cannot be transferred to people, it is good to praise people who behave well in abstract form, to social discipline, but that is what the State is for. It's okay to call social discipline, but that can't be used to drain the lump. In addition to measures to restrict mobility, they are essential - and this is clear - more trackers, more sanitary, but now, not in a year, more safety measures at work, more teachers to lower ratios per class, more often in public transport, because - and this is quite obvious - it is useless to decree curfews from 12 to 6 in the morning so that then people travel to 7 in the morning in crowded meters. Without this, all the efforts requested of the Spanish people will not be sufficient. And co-governance, in this sense, Minister, cannot become a kind of excuse for one another and the house without barring, and I say it to you as a Madrider, that we have just seen Mrs Ayuso announce a hospital without doctors. Mr. Illa, you are well aware that if people are asked for sacrifices, in return we must give you security. You spoke earlier in your opening speech about pandemic fatigue. It comes a devastating mixture of poverty and anxiety that are going to make Christmas very hard. And it is very likely that many people will ask the following question: if exceptional measures can be taken to limit rights and freedoms, to restrict mobility, how can they not be taken to restrict, right now, already, evictions, all, during the state of alarm? How come you can't suspend the rents of the SMEs that are having to close? Or to ensure that minimum living income is covered at once in all households that need it? Or to ensure that there are no supply cuts and no one gets cold while they have to be confined or locked up at home? It is impossible to understand that a curfew can be decreed to people, but not a curfew to poverty while people are restricted to mobility. Efforts can't pay back the usual ones. And I close with a question that will seem smaller, but which for us is of the first order: accountability and respect for this Congress, seat of popular sovereignty. If the government asks for exceptional confidence, as is, no less, than that of half a year of state of alarm, it has to come to ask the president and it has to stay during the debate as a form of respect for this House. And they have to be accountable regularly and regularly to the headquarters of popular sovereignty. That will finally be the case, but it has not been by the Government's will; it has been by our determination, and I want to make it very clear. [[The lady]] From More Country and Commitment, we recorded an amendment for you to come every month to report to this Congress. Suddenly, it seems that then the Government changes its mind and they agree to compromise. I, Mr. Rufián, don't care who signs it, and we're not going to make excuses or medals, but it's good news for everyone to respect this Congress. Parliament does better to this government, not the part of Parliament's screams and scarecrows, but the part that does not scream, the part that sometimes criticizes, sometimes pushes, which it proposes and helps to make things better. Today we celebrate a victory of democratic quality, which is not a defeat of the government, but a victory of accountability and democratic control where it must be, in the seat of popular sovereignty, which is here and not in the Casino of Madrid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u23	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll start with a triple congratulations. My first congratulations to Mr Abascal. I congratulate you on asking for education in this House; apply it. The second congratulations are to the Minister; rectifying is wise, and I found what you did yesterday impeccable; congratulations. And the third was going to do it to the President of the Government, first, because of his presence in Congress - now he is gone, I would have liked him to have defended it - and, second, because they are going to accept to appear in the House. It's not presentable that we have it while we're doing the Sunday paella and that we don't have it here in Congress when it plays. And, in line with this rectification, it seems that Esquerra's proposal to come every two months will be accepted. Since Compromís, we will vote in favour, because I believe that the extension of the state of alarm is a very serious thing and we are a serious and responsible party. But we, More Country and Commitment, had a one-month proposal. I think it's more reasonable for you to come every month than every two months, I don't know. Honestly, I don't understand why you have to come every two months, and you can come every month. Finally, and to defend my proposal, I ask you to do a little fictional policy exercise. Imagine that the motion of censure would have failed. Mr Rajoy would be sitting there, the blue bench would be different, Mr Sánchez would be sitting where Adriana Lastra is, maybe even Mr Rivera would be here. What would we be asking of Mr. Rajoy? I wanted him to come every month. Therefore, I do not understand why we are going to vote today to come here every two months if we would ask another president to come here every month. In any case, either by rectification, which probably would not have occurred without our proposal and those of other political formations in the same direction. Useful policy, then. I'm done. Above irresponsible occurrences, I would say to Mr Casado that some of the words he has said here today should be said to Mrs Ayuso. The Madriders would probably be quieter. And I finish with the words of my partner and Vice President of the Valencian Government, Monica Oltra: Saving Christmas is that we are all sitting at the table, even at different tables. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u25	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] By the same group, Mr. Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, four months after they declared that they had defeated the virus and eight since the declaration of the first state of alarm we are here again debating a measure of exception that should not have occurred. And that is because, starting from the fact that the problem is complex, and this is undeniable, obviously things have not been done right. Public administrations have not used this time to do their duties, neither the Spanish Government nor the autonomous communities. Clearly, the Galician government of Feijóo and the People's Party, after eleven years of deterioration, precariousness and privatization of public health, has not even in this exceptional circumstance made a real effort to improve a public service that is essential. Moreover - and the BNG is clear - the virus is not defeated only with the state of alarm. Public health is being strengthened, giving it more material and above all human resources, strengthening primary care, creating an effective network of trackers, carrying out massive tests, shielding the residences of elderly people, for example, i.e. assuming the responsibilities of the Administration, rather than transferring it exclusively to the responsibility of citizens, just what was not done, or not done well, because the Spanish State and Europe, in their infinite pride, have not wanted to take advantage of the experience of countries that have controlled the situation in two or three months, as is the case with China and Vietnam. It will be that the priorities of the capitalist system do not put people's lives, health and well-being first. The BNG does, and that is why once again we are going to act responsibly from the discrepancy and criticism of the mistakes made or the obvious deficits, among them, for example, when you bring here a new state of alarm without knowing what social protection measures you are going to take to compensate for the negative socio-economic effects of these restrictive measures, which will add to those already provoked earlier. In my country, in Galicia, mobilizations are taking place that rightly, with absolute reason, demand plans for economic compensation and social protection that are increasingly needed or that they seek a state of alarm for six months with the obvious intention of circumventing parliamentary control. Precisely in a state of emergency, when rights and freedoms are restricted, it is when such control becomes more necessary. That is why in our amendments we are talking about two months and the necessary appearance of the President of the Government in this House. In any case, the current proposal for the management of the state of alarm shows that the BNG was right when we said that another model was possible from the respect of the person with the competences and without centralisation in single command. I'm done. Out of responsibility, because the health and life of people is the priority, we will give critical support to this state of alarm. But we will be vigilant and vigilant and, above all, demanding, so that adequate social protection against the effects of this measure is ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u27	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Another day of fighting, another day of brawling, another day of allusions to the Twiter, another day of political bollocks, while today there are 17,000 families who are afraid, praying in some cases for the health of the patients admitted; today there are tens of thousands of families who look at the current account, today, at the end of the month, to see if they have any money left to make the purchase; today there are thousands of self-employed people who are considering the decision to close their businesses forever. Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Sánchez shouted at the rallies that we had defeated the virus, only 7000 people have died in Spain since July, yesterday 168, and there are 700,000 unemployed Spaniards. This is the reality in Spain. There is a widespread feeling that is advancing relentlessly in the minds of citizens when they grab their children before they sleep in fear, uncertainty, sadness, anger, hopelessness. That is what is happening in the Spanish houses, and unfortunately again today we live in Congress in a bubble. The second wave has already destroyed Spain. Now we are no longer in a position to contain or prevent it, we are in a position to lessen its harmful effects, and the answer cannot be political sham. And yes, I know that this government is doing nothing to eliminate the political sham. This Government is, of course, one of the greatest political hotspots. But some in the opposition we have to put a grain of sanity, some in the opposition we have to fill that lack of responsibility of this government. Minister Illa knows it and the president knows it, since last July Citizens asked for a national plan to prevent rebounds and second wave. Yesterday, when I asked Mr Illa why the second wave had not been prevented, he replied that on 22 October, that is, last week, a guide to proceedings was approved. In September we said to them, "Governors of the Government, the second wave is going to be out of control throughout Spain. The answers were always attacks on a specific autonomous community, which, incidentally, is not of its political colour. We in the government of that autonomous community - let us say that I speak of Madrid - have been responsible, we have been sincere, we have come out first to say that yes, that in Madrid the thing was not going well, but we added that in the rest of Spain neither. And while you were chatting, in the debates of the Congress you were only talking about Madrid. They showed a two-party fight through two governments, a distraction for what was coming and what was coming through all the hospitals, all the health centers and all the elderly residences throughout Spain. And yes, here we are, in the second wave all over Spain. Six weeks ago, six, we told the government to take action, because we were still in time to save Christmas. I do not know if we are still in time to save Christmas, Minister, but not just to save jobs at Christmas, but to save lives so that we can have dinner together at Christmas; I do not know if we are still in time. Therefore, we were the first party, again, that we asked for the state of alarm, and you know it, Minister, because I went out on a press conference to say: Act, here are ten Members of State to ask for a state of alarm. Why? Because surgical measures to contain rebounds were no longer possible, because there was already a need to act forcefully to alleviate the destructive effects. It was like a taboo, no one dared say state of alarm. A few hours after we said it, a few autonomous communities came out, and a few days later the president of the government left: always late, always to trailer. Of course, there is no doubt that more restrictive measures must be taken today than could be taken when we warn them. We're not gonna criminalize the state of alarm. It is a constitutional mechanism and, as a liberal, I hope that, when my rights and freedoms are limited, at least with a constitutional instrument that makes the President of the Government have to come face-to-face. And yes, it is true that today we do not have a president of the government. It was not until Mrs Calvo put her purse in order to remind us of another unfortunate moment in the history of our country. But it's exactly the same, let's say there's a transparent bag taking over Mr. Sanchez's place. I prefer that, when you limit rights and freedoms because the pandemic situation requires it, it is not done with basic legislation. We are going to complain and complain that the president of the government will eventually have to come three times in six months, when he intended not to come any, but, thanks to the work and pressure of parties like mine, at least the president the government will have to come three times. However, gentlemen of the People's Party, if this is done with ordinary legislation, there would be no reason for any, not one, to come, and, seeing Mr Sánchez's desire to give his face, I imagine he would not come without obligation. And no, not all alarm states are the same. We have said that, unfortunately, restrictive measures are needed again, and these must be taken with the legal cover of a state of alarm. But, no doubt, there are many ways to take these measures. Did you see Mr. Macron and Mrs. Merkel yesterday? Doesn't it give you a little shame, gentlemen who support the government, to compare in just twelve hours' time with that empty chair with the leadership of Macron and Merkel? Why? It's not just face-to-face. It is to have leadership, to be honest with the citizens, to make the measures clear, to have coherence throughout the national territory, exactly what unfortunately we do not have in our country, and it is because the Government of Spain does not like it, not because there are also no opposition parties, pure opposition that is not lost in a hard and useless opposition or a supposedly soft opposition. We do not believe that you are a dispenser of autonomous alarm states. You are the Government of Spain and you would have to assume your responsibility. But, as I told you before, from parties like Citizens we are going to show the citizens the responsibility you do not want to assume as a government and we are going to run away from the political sham, although you do not want to run away from the political sham. We will support this state of alarm because, under the circumstances, those who will have to take over, who are the autonomous presidents, need legal certainty. That is why I would like to remind you that there are presidents of all political colours who have asked for this state of alarm, because, as the Spanish Government is being erased, there are presidents and autonomous presidents who have to take the lead. And we are also going to do this for the health workers, who are asking us not to hesitate, because the situation is alarming. Yesterday I was up to high hours of the night seeing data from ICU, dead, admitted and infected health care workers in five autonomous communities of Spain, and it's scary, it's scary, it's scary, it's scary. And we've also been watching the EPA data and they're scary, it's scary what's coming, and you're here washing your hands as a government and telling the autonomous communities to act. Well, given their irresponsibility, here we are going to make sense of state, responsibility and common sense. Why don't we like how you exercise command? Because, honestly, they don't exercise it. Mr Macron and Mrs Merkel, when they go out to announce restrictive measures, announce economic support measures. That is why it makes no sense, Mr Illa, among other things, for you to ask for the state of alarm, because a state of alarm is not only restrictive measures, but also measures of economic support. Why do you come, and not a government president, who can talk about all categories? Do you believe, Mr Illa, that the self-employed, the workers and the SMEs in this country are going to endure another six-month state of alarm without aid? Do you know what Mrs Merkel has done for SMEs? He has promised that those who have to close will have guaranteed 75% of the income they had in the same period last year. That's leadership, that's support for the economy, that's not choosing between death or ruin, because you, unfortunately, are leading us to death and ruin, because in health you act late and evil and in economics you don't appear. You left the subjects for September and it seems that you have not even submitted to the exam. This state of alarm is much better. Why? Because you're not making a national health plan. In this country - your ladies and gentlemen - there is no homogeneous criterion for knowing how, when and to whom the tests are carried out. Each autonomous community is buying its own, deciding who it is made of, developing protocols. The Government of Spain does not have a strategy to analyze the spread of the virus by testing. You're not saying what work and what protocols the trackers are supposed to have, you're not. And you're surprised they're gone again, the second wave? You are not an office of care for the Autonomous Communities, an open line: Mr President of the Autonomous Government, what do you want? You are the Government of Spain. Why, Mr. Illa, do you not even have a coordinator of ICUs and health resources? Are you seeing what's going on in the Netherlands and Germany? Do you see that ICU patients are already coming from one state to another, and in Spain we do not have a specific ICU coordinator for the pandemic? Do you think it's normal? You will answer me that the health skills are from the autonomous communities. Yeah, but we have a national transplant coordinator, so we're the best in the world, when we do, right, Mr. Illa? Doesn't it embarrass you to come here to dispense with alarm states and make a catalogue of measures as if it were a menu on which each autonomous community will have to choose? Quite frankly, isn't it embarrassing to have to replace the president of the government in order to decree a six-month state of alarm? Doesn't it embarrass you personally to have to pass that horn by covering your backs with the president of the government? I think that you, as little as I know you, or much, do not have to feel comfortable replacing the President of the Government in one of the most important sessions of democracy that we are going to have. But, well, we already know who we are. [[The Lord]] I'm gonna say one thing that's not popular. We have the complex, and I'm gonna recognize it, from Pepito Grillo. We were the first to ask Mr Sánchez for a state of alarm in the first wave, the first to reach out to him for national emergency budgets because we were intuiting what was coming, the first to go out and say that the state of alarm would be extended because we were not going to play with people's lives to try to win four or five seats. I wish I was wrong, but do you know what's going to happen to this state of alarm - I insist, I wish I was wrong -? That in a few weeks this speech will get old and that you will have to come and ask for another with more forceful measures. That is what, unfortunately, I think is going to happen to my country, and I hope to be wrong, although, unfortunately, since the beginning of the pandemic I have not been wrong when I told you what was going to happen. The French Fernando Simon, the one who doesn't say that masks are useless or that this is like a flu or that from the second wave we won't know, do you know what he said yesterday? That this second wave is going to be worse than the first, and Macron said so too. I hope to be wrong, but if this second wave is much more harmful than what you are saying - I hope I am mistaken - the problem with this state of alarm is that you are going to have to come here and ask for another and you are going to have to take over. But I hope that when they come to ask for another, because they will not be able to impose more restrictive measures with this state of alarm - I hope they do not happen - the President of the Government is in the seat and in the atril defending and explaining to the Spaniards what is coming. To finish, I think politicians need to talk less and listen more. I refuse to resign ourselves to being, again, the worst country in this second wave. I refuse to resign myself to come to Parliament every day to listen to Echenique's speeches, which is often to give moral lessons, after the sentence for not hiring his assistant at his house. [[Applauds]] I refuse to have to come while hundreds of people are dying every day. We are in time to rectify, we are in time to learn, we are in time to give citizens an image of unity, clarity, leadership, union. The measures may not be accurate at best, they may not be perfect these states of alarm, which are not, but at least we give an image of seriousness, of unity, of clarity, so that when people have to stay in their house they think that at least there is political union, that at least this is what has generated consensus. If not, who will take this second wave with the morale with which we all assume the first? As I said, let us talk less about politicians, let us have less political anger and let us listen more. I want to read you a manifesto that fifty-five scientific societies signed weeks ago when they warned that the second wave was coming. I subscribe word for word to what they say and I hope that the management guide for this second wave, Mr Illa, will look a lot like this manifesto. '1. Accept - politicians - decisions based on the best scientific evidence, completely disconnected from the ongoing political confrontation - I subscribe -. Two. Accept the need for a coordinated, equitable response based on clear, common and transparent scientific criteria - I agree -'.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u29	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u30	It's over, Mr. President. '3. Stop already so much discussion and run to action - I subscribe -. 4. We need a national protocol - Mr Illa, a national protocol - to establish common criteria - I agree with that. Five. These criteria should define standards of prevention, management of affected patients, strategies for tracing contacts and management of social health centers - I subscribe -. Six. We must already create a strategic reserve...'. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u31	Your Honor, thank you very much. Your time's up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are at a serious time, but I do not think it is right to be constantly listening that the Spanish state has made the worst management of the pandemic, which is an absolute disaster. Belgium, Luxembourg, Slovenia, France, Italy, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic and Slovakia currently have worse numbers and developments than Spain and have taken tough measures now. Here some have already been adopted before, and perhaps that is why evolution is being a little slower. Let us see what happens, that no one can know, but, of course, that tough measures will have to be taken is obvious and that for that we will need something more than ordinary legislation, above all, as I will explain, because of the interpretation that the courts are making, it is also clear. I thank the Minister for having spoken with us before approving the decree. I am grateful that they respect the competences and that the necessary instruments are given in order to be able to act. In addition, I believe that in the interterritorial council, if everyone acts with loyalty, offering information, etc., parameters, criteria, guidelines can be set that can help us all. I also hope and trust that the House will be sympathetic to the amendment we have put in place, as was the case in the previous state of alarm, so that the situation in the enclaves is not complicated by the measures that can be taken in the state of alarm and that, therefore, its citizens can act in the same way as the citizens of the provinces surrounding them. I think people have been perplexed by the measures they were taking, but then they were laid down by the courts: yes, they weren't. Of course, the interpretation of identical measures that have been taken by higher courts and others has been disconcerting and has created legal uncertainty. We need a stable framework to put in place and remove measures. That's exactly what this state of alarm does. This state of alarm is absolutely different from the previous one. It is not that I put some measures and with them we are going to be six months, and often the impression that it moves to the citizens seems to be that. No, we're looking for agility so we can put them on and take them off. If the thing evolves well these measures need not be put in place, but we will have the legal instrument to react immediately and not be at the dawn of what one court or another decides differently or have to wait three or four days for them to decide or give their opinion. Therefore, this state of alarm does not mean that all the time or these six months we are under extraordinary measures, what is intended is to give speed. Could it be done with ordinary laws, and Mr. Married insists a lot on this? I believe that yes, it could have been done, but, of course, the courts have not given ease and now there is no time to amend that legislation. Let us therefore have an appropriate instrument. As for when it comes to authoritarian state of alarm on the part of some, let's stick the words to what they mean strictly. Lack of freedom! Let's not mix up big words. I believe that even with stricter measures than can be taken with this state of alarm, of which President Macron took yesterday or some others that have been taken in Germany no one doubts that there is freedom there. What's authoritarian? That it would be a lack of freedom? Ask the Chinese: do not discuss or ask for measures that are absolutely more radical than here. To speak of the fact that in a democratic country, with parliamentary control and parliamentary authorization, this is a lack of freedom is a genuine nonsense. That is to say, from Spain in prison, nothing, especially if the measures taken by other countries that have already come to the confinement are then rented. Of course, this state of alarm does not allow it and the Government of the State reserves it for an extreme case, which I hope, I trust - I believe everyone - that it does not have to arrive. Six months is too much? In principle, if it were to implement the measures and not disappear, of course. But I have already explained that it is only a general framework. What I do not see is that I come here to renew every fifteen days, as the People's Party, for example, asks. In the amendment, the president is to come every 15 days. It was crazy at the time. We had just approved a state of alarm and at two days, on Tuesday, we were already talking again and discussing what the next change in state of alarm would be like. It was a true madness, of constant tension. We have to do something a little more permanent. So, that every 15 days I just didn't understand. What do we intend to do, create legal uncertainty that we don't know if at fifteen days this is going to disappear: now we take it off, then we put it on? We are going to send the citizens a very negative image: they do not clear up, they remove the state of alarm, they put it back. Let us do what we have done, set a framework from which we can act quickly. By the way, if with the fifteen days it's about turning this into a pympampum to the government, I don't agree either, because we'll have to talk about what it is, about the pandemic. But it has also been seen in what has been entered, because that impromptuly improvised intervention by Mr Casado has already been seen to go beyond what was the state of alarm. Could it be less than six months? Of course I do. Do we need stability? Yeah. Lack of parliamentary control? It is said that there will be a lack of parliamentary control over the state of alarm. And if this could be done with ordinary legislation - as the People's Party says, and I also think it could be done - then where would the control be? If the measures we propose are the same, but it is to be done with ordinary legislation, then there would be even less control than with the state of alarm. Nor do I understand that there is talk of the psychological and economic damage that can be done, etc. But if we are talking about implementing the same measures only with other legislation! I think it would be good if the amendment to have the President appear every two months was finally adopted. Minister Illa will have to come every month or, if extraordinary circumstances occur, before; moreover, Parliament will not be suspended. Therefore, we all also have the ordinary instruments - interpellations, questions and initiatives - to control the Government and to demand it, beyond the instruments that the state of alarm can offer. There is one thing - I want to make it clear - that, frankly, I have not just seen in the amendment that Esquerra has agreed with the Government, and it is on account of what the Conference of Presidents appears when we talk about the interterritorial council. We all know - and not now and not at this time with this amendment, but it has been throughout COVID - that the government is taking advantage of the juncture to create a sort of general sectoral conference, a constitutional element to, in this way, corner bilaterality. I want to warn you, with us not to count for it; I repeat: with us not to count for it, that then no one will be led into deception, not now, not in two months or three months, but when things become normal. Proposing until December 20 is not two months, two months would be January 9. December 20th. Save the Christmas campaign? I have heard that not from the Germans or the French, the Italian President said. But honestly, if we don't know what's going to happen, if we don't know what situation we're going to be in, if we don't know if the situation is going to be more virulent, I think it's a bad message to say that. We are going to tell the citizens that we are going to see how it evolves, that we are going to try to stop it and, of course, no one has an interest either in harming the economy or in harming the citizenry. I am convinced that, as soon as possible, the autonomous authorities will withdraw such measures as they consider no longer necessary. So, whatever happens we have to produce an absolute cut and movement of people at Christmas? Well, I don't know, I wish I could do it like this! But let us not send the message that that is already done or that it is possible to do so. We're gonna be a little more responsible and tell people we don't know when this is gonna end. I wish it had been six months, but we don't know how it's going to evolve or when the vaccine is going to be ready and available to everyone. By the way, if all this is denouncing before Europe, do not abstain. Recently they are becoming the correveidiles of the mark, of the mark Europe. I believe that Europe is more concerned when it sees action being taken everywhere and will surely be surprised that in an autonomy in which they govern, it acts as if the COVID were not with them and contradictory announcements are given. Of course, this unbalances and produces 'disturbation' in the system of autonomous communities, because in the interterritorial council things are quite greased, with some slight exception, and we do not understand, honestly. It is said that why the Government's state of alarm decree requires that if the Autonomous Communities take any action for seven days. I understand, I think we should all know at this point that scientifically, to know the effectiveness of the measure as the virus acts, we need at least seven days. And, on the other hand, we are not going to get rid of the citizens with: now I put it, now I take it off; with punctual measures that move every two or three days. It is already quite complicated for citizens to understand the legal regulation in which they can move so that we are constantly changing it. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Appeals are announced to the Constitutional Court, etc. Well, it has already been seen, unfortunately since the beginning of this crisis: under any circumstances it is to weaken the political rival and, indirectly, to weaken the institutions as well. We are seeing reproaches, it is said that it is supported, that dialogue, but at the same time that talk of dialogue is made a speech absolutely full of reproaches; insecurity in the citizenry is created by seeing this House so divided and with such serious accusations, with greater words. But, well, it's the Spanish gene; this is so. Then they will accuse Basque nationalism of irresponsibility. Frankly, this, seen from the outside, is not understandable, especially if we compare it with other European countries. In short - and I finish to adjust to time, Mr Vice-President - it is not time to wait for action, we have to take it now. Unfortunately, and although we would like it to be with ordinary legislation, the case law that has been given has shown that this is not possible. Therefore, our obligation is to give legal certainty in the coming months, and this goes on for a long time. At the moment, the only capacity we have to give that legal certainty is this state of alarm, to give that power precisely to those who have the competence and resources in their hands so that they can be agile in their decisions, and this, I insist, is not a permanent state of alarm in the implementation of the measures - I hope we have forgotten the measures within a month or they can be softened! - this is simply a legal security framework. And it will be up to us to demand from the Government, to the extent that it develops, the responsibilities it may incur. And, of course, it is also the responsibility of the government to come to this Parliament not only in what is going to be assessed through the adoption of the amendment, but its responsibility goes beyond: it is every time it is necessary and every time something important happens. This goes for a long time, the fight against COVID goes for a long time, I think that's what we have to tell citizens, this is not going to disappear as if by magic and no dates can be given. But, of course, I think we'll all be on it. We are convinced that the measures, as soon as they can be withdrawn, will be withdrawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u34	Egun on. Good morning. We'll be clear, as we try to be whenever we go up to this rostrum. Today we will allow the approval of this new state of alarm by abstaining because we believe it is necessary to save lives; yes, this state of alarm is necessary, but we believe that it is insufficient to effectively protect the health and social and economic rights of citizens. There has been a lot of talk this morning about the reasons that have given us this new situation of having to declare a new state of alarm before the COVID-19, and there will be more than one reason, of course, but there is one fundamental one, in our view, that is that we have not actually learned everything we could expect to have learned from the first wave of the pandemic. While people were being asked for sacrifice, the least that could be expected was for institutions to prepare for a possible second wave, and in most cases this has not been the case. We are once again faced with serious problems in the health, social or economic fields, once again overwhelmed, and - we must admit - we have not been able to live up to it. I think it was in mid-April when President Sánchez said in this Chamber that we were at the beginning of the pandemic and therefore learning to fight it. Well, it was true, it was, but it's been seven months and the Spanish state has gone from a million contagions. In sight we have learned very little. I think it would be very timely to hold a debate here on the mistakes that have been made in the management of the pandemic, of course, it would be logical in a mature society in which, constructively, without ruthless attacks, without insults, with proposals for solutions, the issue would be addressed. That is the real debate that would be needed here, but, according to the actions of your ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of some of the things that have been said today, which are said, which are also heard outside and which are heard in this House, this debate here, in this Congress of Deputies, is a utopia, for now, unattainable. He said that we have not learned and that the pandemic has not made us any better either as a society or as political leaders. We're almost as close as we were at the beginning, and if we have any certainty right now, the only thing we can maintain is that we don't know when this pandemic is going to end. Although we could also assure without fear of error that the future, history, will take it into account and judge without compassion those who are not up to the circumstances. The question is that we are here again, back to the alarm decree, the result of a situation which, in an apparently illogical circle, has been brought to us in part by the autonomous communities themselves and, among them, the ones that most criticized the centralism of the first state of alarm, mine, the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre, and they have done so because they have been pushed to demand the implementation of this exceptional measure in order to be able to take decisions, pushed and addressed it because, in this Spanish State, the most decentralized State in Europe, as we have been repeatedly repeated by the Government, these autonomous governments cannot themselves take the measures that we need if we want to protect the health of citizens. In this rather subtle paradox we are now and before this paradox, as we have already done in the first state of alarm, we will be responsible again, because we understand that the priority objective must be to defend and protect the health and life of people, but we also want to re-emphasize the nullity of the institutions themselves in order to be able, in the face of a health, social and economic emergency, to take the necessary measures without having to ask any permission. I would like to explain to you, ladies and gentlemen, that when in the independence of the left we defend the need for more sovereignty, we do so not by a flag or a border, but in order to be able to have all the instruments to safeguard the lives and rights of people. To date, almost fifteen days have been lost while waiting for the central government to make decisions. We have a completely inadequate level of self-government to be able to take over the reins of solutions to crises like this, and unfortunately this will not be the last time this is evident. The question is, in fact, that we are here debating this state of alarm and, in our view, imposing a six-month state of alarm without any control or ratification is clearly excessive. That is why, in our proposal, we have asked to monitor every two months to analyse whether or not to maintain both the measures and the state of alarm themselves, so that it can be valued, so that the evolution and prospects envisaged can be discussed and presented. Second question to be raised on this decree. Unlike what happened in that spring, which we almost did not realize and which has passed almost as non-existent, when the fear of what we did not know, the fear of the unknown, but also the gestures of solidarity, of social empathy, of collaboration among the people softened very much the drama that was lived, this new state of alarm comes at another emotional moment; it comes at a time when society shows suspicion, detachment towards the recommendations and decrees of the governments. You, Minister, have referred to this, you have referred to this apathy, to this tiredness and, in addition, you have given a definition that can be good: the pandemic fatigue of the population. It is true that a general discontent has been established and it is becoming increasingly difficult, more uncomfortable for the population, to comply with prohibitions that clash and collide, yes, with our individual freedoms. But it is also logical to think that the epidemiological situation requires restrictive measures of freedom, as is being adopted in many other parts of Europe, but, in return and necessarily, these limitations require, on the other hand, a democratic correspondence, that we act with complete transparency, that clear messages be given to the population and that the real situation and expectations with which we are working be put on the table. It is not enough to cut freedoms in the private sphere if decisions are not then made in the public sphere. It is surprising, really surprising, that little is already being said about the efforts needed to get ahead of the coronavirus through screening and reinforcement in primary care. For this reason, in Euskal Herria Bildu we have put forward proposals for public investment in health to increase, for recruitment of trackers, for tracing, for reinforcement in primary care, in staffing and in equipment, and for this, of course, additional funds dedicated exclusively to strengthening autonomous health systems. All this needs to be done. Private medical activity also needs to be subordinated to the general interest during this state of alarm, because it is more than justified. What can't happen, what can't happen again is that you do business with a pandemic situation, as happened months ago. Moreover, these new restrictions also have consequences, in addition to the already battered social and economic situation of millions of people in this State. Social measures are needed to accompany this route, if it is to be effective and not to generate more inequality, and economic measures for the hardest hit sectors, the self-employed, small trade, hospitality, SMEs. If we don't do this, we'll be condemning them to ruin. Without taking these measures we will not be able to overcome the pandemic, because what will come will be a social and economic pandemic impossible to stop, and leaving no one behind will simply be a beautiful phrase, very beautiful, but totally empty of content. Since our political formation, we have put on the table our responsibility, but also our demand. We have always advocated to take whatever measures are necessary to deal with the virus, even if they are harsh, even if they are drastic, even if they are uncomfortable and even if it is difficult for us all to accept them, because collective well-being must prevail. But this collective well-being will only be achieved by measures of social and economic accompaniment, which are necessary and which are not contemplated in this state of alarm. The virus will stop it among all, it was said a few months ago; yes, among all, but with coherent political measures, with clear messages, with means and with sufficient health personnel to protect citizens, in defense of health and the public, because - let us never forget - without health there is no economy. In this respect, our motions for resolutions have gone, measures which, if not accepted today, will have to be accepted tomorrow, because they are necessary. What happens is that the need for more health personnel is now, is already. The weaker economic sectors need aid now and, if it is done tomorrow, unfortunately, tomorrow will be late. Taking action on reality is something that is necessary in every order of life, also in politics. And when there is a pandemic on the way, what needs to be done is to get ahead of the reality that comes and anticipate it in advance. Otherwise, that virus will run more than we and society - this society to which it must be protected, to which public officials must protect - will be the one that is left behind; we will all be left behind. He said at first that we have not learned anything from the first wave, that the duties to face the second have not been done. I hope and wish that we learn, at least, from this second wave to prevent us from having to face a third wave. Ladies and gentlemen, society, people, is responding in an exemplary way; exemplary, yes. Society is assuming its responsibilities for the collective good, but it is not worth asking the citizenry to sacrifice, asking them to fulfill everything so that everything will go well, if those who govern and decide, in whom they trusted to protect them, do not assume their own. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u35	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group - which now has its turn in reply - Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u36	Thank you, President. As if it were a prophecy, Maria del Mar Bonet sang: What do these people want to do in the morning? They come in the morning cops, civilian guards, they stir you up, they arrest you. This is what happened yesterday and it happened again this morning in Catalonia. We reaffirm ourselves: amnesty and self-determination. [[Applauds]] According to the World Health Organization, health is a state of physical, psychological and social well-being, not only absence of disease. And you bring us a state of alarm decree that only talks about control; in fact, you generate a legal umbrella for the autonomous communities only to control mobility and you talk about decentralization to the autonomous communities. But this is not sovereignty, Minister, this is passing the problem on to the autonomous communities; the problem of fear management, and we talk about fear management because you make a good version of what we would call market authoritarianism. Why are there no measures to suspend dismissals? Why are there no measures that suspend evictions? Why is there no moratorium on rents and mortgages? Why is there still no high income tax? What about the COVID rate? Why do they talk about mobility control but then force people to go in crowded meters and on public transport every morning? Why do they not enable the use of private health care without compensation? Look, in June 2020, at the end of the first wave, private health passed us an invoice of 246 million euros. EUR 246 million to save lives in the midst of a pandemic. Do you know what that's called? Business of fear; business of fear, casino economy with health and lives. Without rights, without prolonging, at least, the real decrees that already existed - and do not tell us that they are extended within the framework of the validity of this state of alarm because it is not true, and we have tabled amendments in this regard - without rights, without courage with health companies, pharmacy and investment funds that speculate with housing, you are contributing to market authoritarianism. And you know who wins with this? Large companies, such as investment funds and private health companies, and the far right. And you know why? Because market authoritarianism blows communities. It's the picture of the elite dinner. You want this, Minister? Do you want the photo of the elite dinner to be reproduced in every corner of the Spanish state? Has this come to make the government of progress? Has this come to make parties that support investiture, market authoritarianism? The management of this pandemic, if it continues like this, offers only one certainty, which is the fear, the fear of people that every morning will rise and that the day will be worse than the day before.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u37	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Absolutely desolating. Yesterday we saw that picture that came out of the newspapers of two cooks sitting on a collapsed sidewalk, crying. Yesterday we saw a family with a grandmother with four grandchildren, small children, evicted in the street, not by a vulture fund, gentlemen of Podemos, but by a public company called Sareb, which depends on the Government of Spain. Yesterday I saw a photo that was sent to me by a friend, a companion of this house, of her mother, who died two days ago, grabbed by the hand of a toilet. And today we come to pass a decree - which I believe is even short, because this is wrong, it is frankly wrong - where constitutional rights are limited to saving people, but with a president of the government it is not and is not expected. And the feeling that we politicians and citizens have is that he has said: now, take care of yourselves and see each other in six months. Now it's not gonna be six months, it's gonna be four. Citizenship needs certainty, serenity, closure, but doing things head-on. Minister, Mrs Merkel would have come - not just to this House, but also to the citizens - to ask the political forces; and I believe that the President should have done so. But I'm going to talk as usual, saying that if it's true that we're making health decisions, make them now. I'm going to talk about the Canaries. Canary asked the Spanish government five months ago to put the tests in place in origin and destination in order to save the summer season, and they did not. Canary Islands is the only one who can do perimeter control, just like Balearics, the rest is fantasy! Because we can control it. No, we're going to negotiate with Europe the runners. What did Portugal do? Madeira and Azores put the tests in origin and destination and have had no problems with either summer season or contagion. The Italian government, without consulting Brussels, did so in Sardinia and Sicily and had summer season and they have not had a contagion. And now the government of the Canary Islands has to take out a matter to let them enter the Canary Islands, but they are not allowed to enter the hotels; the lord of the hotel tells them that they cannot enter if they do not come with the PCR. Please, Minister! You have to keep a distance, masks, planes. How many times have I told you not to eat on planes? Two and a half hours people without masks. There's no right. Second thing about planes. You have saved hundreds of millions in compensation for transport in relation to Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands because there have been no flights. Then pay for a free seat between each two people, which is 30 euros. How much would it cost you, 10 million over the next three months? What can't be is that people are 50 centimeters away, without masks, eating, and over two and a half hours. El Español is short on the flight I take this afternoon to the Canary Islands. Don't let anyone stay behind. About the deaf, I tell you again; deaf children still can't take classes, neither face-to-face nor anything, for not homologating some damn masks. Don't leave anyone behind. Solve the Canary Islands. Nothing this afternoon, a conference to see if in Europe... Do what you have to do, as did the Portuguese and Italian governments. We are 26% unemployed in the Canary Islands; 60% unemployed or ERTE. We save people with sanitary measures. The Government of the Canary Islands has done its job; the Canary Islands have done their job; the Government of Spain has not done its job to protect the health and economy of the Canary Islands. Hold your batteries, because we're going to die. The EPA: 26% unemployment two days ago; in addition to ERTE, 60% of our working population.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u39	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u40	Thank you very much, President. We can't do this anymore. We can't do this anymore and we're warning you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u41	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López then has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u42	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Since last March our country began writing the saddest pages of our recent history, sixty thousand Spaniards have lost their lives. That means that every day for nine months, every day, an airplane would have crashed without a single survivor. I know the facts are not comparable, but the value of human life is. And when we see that a plane falls, we get shocked and we tremble; however, now we are talking about dead people reducing them to the coldness of a given, from a point in a statistic; we have come to such a point of pain that we have completely anesthetized ourselves until we unravel reality. And that is what we see in this Parliament, where we talk with an excess of frivolity. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we have not beaten the virus, we have not left the pandemic behind, nor is it true that no one is going to stand behind: deaths continue to rise exponentially; the unemployed continue to grow; the businesses continue to close; the self-employed continue to suffer, and the bottlenecks in the ERTE or in the minimum living income do not stop accumulating. [[applause]] That is why many Spaniards, who made huge sacrifices in the first wave, who lowered the blinds of their business, who stopped to see their elders, to walk their children, who renounced their own freedom and gave them extraordinary powers for weeks, deserved today that the President of the Government come to the seat of national sovereignty to explain to them why we are back to being the same. And what Mr Sánchez has done in this House is not just an indecency, it is an act of entrepreneurial cowardice. [[Applauds]] I was telling him in May and I'm telling him today: arrogance, not being able to assume a single mistake just leads us to make them again. Unfortunately, I was right. His government of stone cardboard, irresponsible, built from egos, from Sunday sermons has been absolutely incapable of taking us forward at a time like this. It's terrible, but we've lost the game back without even starting to dispute it. And we've lost it because of the government's incomparency. Because, Mr. Illa, it is true, your ministry is proving absolutely irrelevant; everything is giving to the autonomous communities. But do you know what the Spanish are asking themselves? Then what do you need a minister like you for? What they bring us to this House today is not a use of the state of alarm, it is an abuse of the state of alarm. You are trying to kidnap Parliament, to shut up the legitimate representatives of the Spanish, but at the same time you are setting us up. We now have a diabolical vote, we have two possibilities: to vote yes to the only instrument that can save lives - it is the only one because its greed and negligence have not allowed us to have more - or to vote no more and therefore to reject that authoritarian diatribe of a government that in a clear constitutional excess wants to limit the powers of this House. And we cannot vote but to save lives, we cannot add more irresponsibility to their irresponsibility, but we cannot accept a cut in parliamentary control such as that to which you want to submit to this House. He has left us no alternative but to abstain. Understand this abstention as a responsibility with Spain despite the blackmail to which the Government is subjecting us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Regionalist Party of Cantabria has always supported the measures of the Spanish Government and those of the autonomous community itself, and this is also going to be our position today, because in situations like this we understand that no one has assurances either in the middle, in the short or in the long term of what are the most effective measures and therefore we are going to be supporting the Government. [[The lady]] If we would have liked a shorter period of three or four months, and then the interterritorial conference would have decided if it was better to extend it, but as the result is the same and this is basically because of a question of image and citizen morals does not change our mind what they have come to agree. Finally, I want to believe that the Government is handling more data than any of us and that of course it does not like that situation, so we are going to vote in favour and we hope that the six-month deadline will not be exhausted and that the measures taken by the autonomous communities will be correct. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Pedro Sánchez, absent - perhaps celebrating this 29th October, the feast of San Narcissus, in order not to account for the descalade to the calamity - has perpetrated a state of alarm which is a parenthesis in democracy at the service of its authoritarianism, which violates the Constitution, despises Congress and will not solve the problems of its poor management of the health emergency of the coronavirus. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a broad motion for a resolution which includes the complete deletion of several articles from the text because the Government is not empowered to eliminate the fundamental right of assembly or to cancel the right of movement, unless it promotes the state of emergency. Consequently, I reject these measures by the Government, which divert the failure of other administrations, after proposing that in Spain we would get stronger out of the pandemic and take a vacation with friends, to resort again to the state of alarm after announcing in June that it would no longer be necessary to apply it in the future. Since then, the Government has been thoroughly corrected by the courts of justice, acting sectarianly depending on the political, manic and frivolous colour of the epidemiological data, and now, in order to end, it endorses the responsibility of the autonomous communities to maintain for months severe restrictions that despair the badly affected economic sectors and that add to the stress, fatigue and discouragement to the health care workers. The worst health management in the world and the government sabbaticals parliamentary control so that Mr Sánchez avoids explaining his ravages during this crisis. I'll vote against it. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u47	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, and lastly, Mr Guitarte Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that once again we have come more than hasty in time, surely we need to act more ahead of time, be more proactive. We believe, like many, that health and health are preconditions for economic activities, and we also believe that in order to combat the pandemic effectively, to respect the efforts that citizens are making, it is necessary to deepen coordination, cooperation and loyalty between the autonomous communities and the Government. In other words, common measures, their coherence and scientific support must be strengthened, and their flexibility and the adaptation of these common measures to actual events must also be improved. We therefore need to improve the transparency of the whole procedure, the scientific basis for the decisions taken and the pedagogical explanations for all citizens. Similarly, it is necessary to strengthen the committee of experts and scientists, to recognize their work, to make its composition known and to strengthen citizen adherence to it, as well as the exemplary respect that should be given to them by political leaders and institutions. We ask the presidents of the autonomous communities, to whom the royal decree confers the responsibility of delegated competent authority, that, in the case of adopting territorial measures of confinement within their community, they be flexible now adapting the management of the health alarm to the specificity of each territorial area; the rural environment, small cities, large metropolitan areas must continue to maintain specificity and not confine by autonomous communities if not necessary. We call for flexibility and adaptation to the specific characteristics of each area, but to act in turn - we also demand it - with coherence, loyalty and responsibility, not to give cover to the arbitrary or punctual will of politicians. We appreciate that the decree gives legal certainty to the decisions that each autonomous community will take. We believe that the time horizon provided for in the decree should now allow for a more technical, more rigorous, real control and less subject to unnecessary confrontation resulting from the biweekly votes. But we believe that time frames should be adapted to the evolution of the pandemic, that management should have health coordination very close in time and that it should always be based on scientific health criteria and coordinated by the Ministry of Health, and also that accountability in Congress should come through the President of the Government and the Minister of Health. That is why, just as we will support the Royal Decree, we will also support those amendments that have been tabled in this regard to shorten the deadlines for accountability. Just as during the previous state of alarm we were particularly concerned about the situation of the health system in Spain, the internal imbalances of the autonomous health systems, whose territorial scope is markedly unequal between provinces and regions, we are also concerned now, as well as the weakness of the health system in some provinces of the emptied Spain, taking as an example the deficiencies that exist in equipment, in ICU and in health personnel in the hospitals that in Aragón are called peripherals, such as those of Alcañiz and Teruel. We also recall the imperative need to strengthen primary care centres with sufficient staff, and we recall the need to be vigilant with the most risky focus, such as the residences of older people. Finally, we believe that it is time to give serious consideration to the advisability of a specific law for this and other pandemic situations, a law that regulates in detail the measures for the different scenarios, the actions and the coordination and responsibilities of the different public administrations so that we do not have to permanently go to extraordinary situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u49	Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at some point we have all talked about the image we give the country from this House, and on not a few occasions, especially recently, we have been concerned about it, but we have not noticed that perhaps the most important thing is the opposite, not only the image we give the country, but the image of the country that each of us brings to this House, because here we make decisions that affect all the Spaniards and the country that we see, think, build and want depends on everything we do. It is true, we see it every day, that we each go our separate ways and understand things something different when we talk about freedom, equality, responsibility and even homeland, but also, I am sure, there are occasions, the most important, in which we can all agree on an objective. Today we all want to stop the pandemic, just as the whole of society wants it; today there is no Spain of either party, there is only one Spain that fights the pandemic. The differences that have been presented here are not about the objective we want to achieve, they are about the best means to achieve that objective. In the last days and hours Euskadi has confined all the municipalities; Asturias has decided a perimeter closure of all the principality; Navarra, the restriction of movements; Aragon, Valencia, Madrid, Murcia, Castile and León, Castile-La Mancha, Andalusia, each and every one of the communities are making difficult decisions and many of them are heading towards the perimeter confinement. And we will have to make more decisions, decisions that require determination, resolution and security. What we are asking ourselves today is not what is the end of the road, but what are the means we can give the communities to travel it with the utmost effectiveness, and I think the best way to know it is simply to listen to the Autonomous Communities. This past week a majority of the autonomous communities have asked the Government to apply the state of alarm, a possibility that the President of the Government made available to the autonomous presidents months ago in anticipation that a second wave might arrive. And, ladies and gentlemen, to clarify some of the things that have been said in this debate, it is difficult for the Government to be accused of unforeseeable when this possibility was put on the table months ago, precisely in anticipation of a situation like this. Hence also the decree of new normality of the month of June; hence the early response plan of July, also agreed with the autonomous communities; hence the protection of workers and companies through the ERTE and the ICO's endorsements; hence the economic contribution of billions and more than two thousand trackers to the autonomous communities. Of course there has been national forecasting and planning in the face of this situation! Just as there have been in Italy, Great Britain or France, and look how they are. This measure has been requested by the governments of the communities, governments of up to five different parties, five parties of very different ideological and political signs, parties that go beyond those that drive the Government's action, which go beyond those that supported the investiture. There is, therefore, no motivation or reading beyond exercising the responsibility that we all bear to curb the pandemic. This is not a party measure, but a country initiative. The state of alarm that we are voting on today is not an end proposed by the Government or a measure imposed by the Government, it is the umbrella that will provide the necessary legal coverage for the autonomous communities to take the necessary measures to combat the pandemic. The Government is not imposing a position, it is providing security for communities to adopt the position most appropriate to their situation. Thirdly, and I will be equally clear, we do not want the state of alarm, but we need the state of alarm, which are very different things. [[Applauds]] We will support it and keep it as long as it is essential, not one more day, not one more minute. And I also understand the question that many of you are asking and that has been at the heart of some approaches, especially those of Mr. Married, in the last few days about who will keep the guards. For the law, Mr Casado, that is what it is for; the law, the rules of this House and the mechanisms of control of the government, that do not disappear, that exist for that and that will continue to work. Have you heard a member of the Government call for the suspension of control mechanisms? To what then should one sow mistrust in the very capacity of this Parliament to control the action of the government? Let us be fair, ladies and gentlemen, and if you do not want to be fair, at least be rigorous in your statements. The President has appeared in this House more than any previous one. The Minister of Health has appeared in plenary and in the Commission almost every week. Do not throw on this institution and on the Members that we are part of it the shadow of the abandonment of its control functions because that has consequences. I understand that the temptation of the easy blow is strong, even more so when it is on the ground of an anti-politics which, we must recognize, has its market, but I believe that we should all contribute to dignifying the institutions, not to throwing doubts and suspicions at them. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the state of alarm is the appropriate response to a demand made directly by the communities themselves. It is the right answer because it is designed precisely for situations like this, it is the right answer because it is practically the entire national territory that is affected by the pandemic and it is the right answer because we already know that it works. I know that you, gentlemen of the PP, Mr Casado, find it very difficult to assume it after months and months by demonizing a constitutional instrument as the state of alarm, saying that that instrument - I repeat, constitutional - was a despotism or that served us for nothing. Remember your interventions in May. But we are not responsible for your words or your verbal excesses all this time and therefore do not ask others to become hostages of their disproportionateness since the beginning of the pandemic. You say that there were alternatives, which have been asking for extraordinary legislation for months, and that is true, but you also know perfectly well that the existing laws already allow the autonomous communities partial confinements, closures of premises, limited meetings, and you know that there is a valid legal framework, and only one, to limit fundamental rights, such as general restrictions on mobility: the state of alarm. Moreover, Mr Casado, I will tell you something else, that this party I represent is not going to allow what some people want: to limit fundamental rights through ordinary legislation. [[Applauds]] There have been those who, especially from the far right, have said that the Government of Spain is totalitarian and that we live in a dictatorship. Look, Mr Abascal, Italy has been in a state of emergency for eight months, and I fear it will last for several more months; Portugal remains in a state of calamity; there are curfews in Belgium, Italy, the United Kingdom and France; in Ireland, a six-week confinement, and most of these countries are contemplating more severe measures, we saw yesterday in France and Germany. Are they all dictatorships, Mr. Abascal? No, right? No, what has happened in Europe is that in one month the number of cases has tripled and the pandemic must be stopped. That is what the governments of Europe and also of Spain are doing: fighting the worst pandemic on the continent in the last century. What I am wondering is what these political groups are doing to pour out these statements. What are you doing VOX, Mr. Abascal? What have they contributed during all these months apart from caceroladas and demonstrations in luxury cars or convertible buses? They've been the most useless party throughout the pandemic. They are there, in their corner, without bringing anything or proposing anything. And it happens to them, by the way, like the ghost of the castle, who have to shout, scream and make noise so that we all remember that they are still there, so that we remember their existence. They have also criticized Mr Abascal and Mr Casado - he has repeated it these days - that we celebrate defeating the first wave of the virus. Some other spokespersons said so this morning. Mr. Married, when I hear you say these things, I don't know whether to answer the radical married man who's talking or wait to see if the moderate married man shows up. This time, the radical has touched us. [[Applauds]] Look, after months and months of struggle, pain and sacrifice, the Spaniards defeated the first wave of the virus. We did, it is true, and we will defeat the second wave and eradicate the pandemic; we will, overcome the second wave and eradicate the pandemic. And I would only ask them one thing, that when that happens, that when that time comes, when that happens, they let us cry in peace to our dead and celebrate that we can meet again with the people we want, because I assure them that with much pain, sometimes with too much distance for too long and in all cases with too much sacrifice, each of the Spaniards of this country will have won it at their own pace. [[Applauds]] Some groups have also implied, and Mr Casado has explicitly said, that we are rushing out. But, Mr. Married, it is precisely you who voted against the alarm states. [[Applauds]] It is that you said in this House day after day that extending the state of alarm was useless - I repeat - that it was a despotism and that it served nothing. If we're going to talk about responsibilities, let's talk about everyone's responsibilities and let's do it with a minimum of consistency. Do you remember the haste of some autonomous communities governed by the PP to move on from stage to stage as it was and in any case? Do you remember that too? Ladies and gentlemen, we asked for the state of alarm for six months and the President of the Government proposed yesterday that it be revised to all four. Why that six-month deadline? Because absolutely all experts say it's the time we're going to need to make sure we defeat the pandemic with some certainty. And they have pointed out some spokesmen, and very clearly those on the right, who do not trust the experts and committees who advise the Government, but surely they watch television, they listen to the radio and they read the press every day, and they will have heard legions of experts who have nothing to do with the Government repeating the same dates over and over again. If everything goes well we hope that the majority of the population will be vaccinated in spring, so six months. And during those six months we need the legal coverage that only the state of alarm offers; legal coverage, I insist, not for the government - and this should be transparent - of Spain, but so that the autonomous communities, including those of the PP, can do, in the most effective way and without setbacks, what they think is convenient to combat the pandemic. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party is going to support this proposal and we ask the other parliamentary groups to do the same, to vote in favour of the state of alarm, regardless of their support for the Government, even from the frontal opposition to the Government if they so wish. Vote for the state of alarm simply because it saves lives and that, of saving lives, is all it's about. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u52	Good morning again. Mr. Married, you have spoken to me of humility, and I think you should go up to this rostrum and do what I tried to do yesterday, which is to give reason to the citizens because they did not understand that you attended a dinner - as I did - last Monday. [[Applauds]] I did it with humility yesterday, with the humility you told me about. I have not yet heard that you have done so, I say so in order to have a minimum of legitimacy when I invoke the citizens. Secondly, he has spoken a lot, but I have not heard a single health argument. It is absent from sanitary arguments. And I remind you of the criteria agreed with the Autonomous Communities in the Early Response Plan of 16 July, in the response actions of 22 October, in the five coordinated public health agreements with more than a hundred measures agreed from 14 August to yesterday. Third, I don't know where it came from or where it landed, probably from some planet. Today it is these Courts that decide on the state of alarm, I repeat, these Courts that decide on the state of alarm, Mr Casado. And you, as far as we can see, have no position; abstention says. A week later, you make your own motion, everything that moves backwards it in just a week. You have to choose between having a constructive position or having a confrontational position next to the far right. It is the decision that groups, including their own, have to make; they support, build and support measures to save lives or confront the Government of Spain. Let's talk about Madrid. Only one question has drawn my attention to the fact that not one of your Members considered it important to table an amendment such as the one requested by the President of the Autonomous Community of Madrid, to confine it for days, because it has not even been raised here. That is why I want to remind you of something that you have said about my person in connection with Madrid, even though I have not done so so far. I have been called disparately Catalan socialist in Madrid. They have come to say from me that I mess with Madrid - you know who - gave me points before an independent electorate. I've been accused of being an activist and a ram of the government's'madrilenophobia'. I have never answered, I have listened to these ditirambos very carefully for weeks as I went down the curve of Madrid with recommended measures - first without the state of alarm and then with the state of alarm - by this government and by this minister. He never answered, but today I'm gonna do it. I was not born here, but I have always felt very close to Madrid, but now I feel much closer than ever to Madrid because I have suffered with the Madridns and I have seen - they do not have to tell me - an admirable city that resists, that welcomes, that rises up, that does not ask, that is united. I feel very close to Madrid, you know why? Because it's impossible not to feel close to a place that immediately makes you feel like one more. [[Applauds]] I recognize my admiration for Madrid and for the Madridns with two words that I want to say with simplicity and humility: thank you, Madrid. I'm not going in, Mr. Married, in your brawl. This is a health debate, at least that's what I want. There are still no sanitary arguments. My only adversary is the virus; his, according to his intervention, seems to remain exclusively the Government. We see with amazement that this has become a right-wing primary between you and Mr. Abascal, Pili and Mili. This was and must continue to be a constructive health debate. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u53	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u54	With your intervention, Mr Casado, I think you have managed to turn it into something else. You see, a countermotion, the second round of the motion of censure is what it seems. I'm not going into this. Mr. Married, one sentence: everything he had won in a week loses him in the other; that is, Married censors Married. I don't want to - I'm really telling you - be in your place. I only hope that this minister has been at his institutional level. I am convinced that Mrs Gamarra - and I hope she will not create any problems - would have used many more health arguments and - if I may say so - less vehemently and perhaps more effectively. And if we talk about the institutional tone, your abstention must be critical but not embarrassing, as it seems. Abstaining is the inanity in a health debate - and it goes for all those who have announced it - on a state issue such as the public health of the Spaniards. I am only a minister of health in the face of the greatest calamity in a century - in a century! - in all of humanity; the most important public health crisis in Spain and in the world in a hundred years - in a hundred years! - the most decisive emergency we have faced in a hundred years. In the face of this, the PP - I do not say so, Mr Abascal - abstains and goes to Venice against a decision of the Parliament of the nation which is the result of consensus with the executive. I told him that I didn't know where he came from and perhaps because of his forms and kicks in the spindle he has once again landed on Mars, the territory of Mr.Abascal; of what I am convinced is that he has not landed among mortals; I would sincerely tell him, despite his institutional height, that they take time without treading the earth. Let him read - I say it without any grudge - a simple tweet that portrays today, as yesterday, the position of his party. It's Javier Gallego's October 3rd, and he was very acclaimed on social media. I think it sums up in a few words the attitude of the PP throughout the year - I open quotes -: First they said that Sánchez was late in confining, after he confined too much, after he was slow to descale, then quickly, later that he intervened much, after he had abandoned them, today that he intervened too much - close quotes -. There is no one who understands this, Mr. Married. [[Applauds]] But the question is one: do you understand yourselves? I don't seem to be the only one who sees it that way. Let us review, if I may, a recent interview with Mr Alsina, where you were censoring yourself and where we will also see how you were censoring your own party; it is an interview in the program More than One Zero Wave on September 28, just a month ago. Alsina says: If you review everything that has happened in the last few months, all of you, who are ahead with responsibilities, have changed your mind several times. You go from criticizing Sánchez because he takes the decisions late in March, because he does not anticipate what was to come, then complain that he prolongs the state of alarm too much, after the phase of descalation is not done in a homogeneous way. When the month of August comes, you are criticized for the fact that, in your opinion, the epidemic has been resolved. They now criticize him because he wants to have too much presence when it comes to making decisions in the Community of Madrid. In the end, it is not clear to me whether you would like to become the sole command and it is Minister Illa who decides what needs to be done in every municipality in our country or whether you want Minister Illa to stay out of the way where he is not called and, therefore, do not comment on what needs to be done in the Madrid Community. And you replied: It is that the story you have made is perfect, of all that we complain and continue to complain. You can smile if you like, ladies and gentlemen. Alsina kept asking him: Do you complain that he disagrees and that he understands at the same time? And you said, "It's just that all that together is how you have to see it." [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u55	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u56	And Alsina said to him: Mr. Casado, is the epidemic in Madrid controlled? And you replied: What I heard from the experts and I heard from the president is that from the moment measures have been implemented there is a hospital pressure that they say is going the right way, but I am not an expert and I just say that, for these limitations to work, we need the support of the central and municipal administration. Alsina insisted: Is the epidemic under control in Madrid according to its criteria then? And you said, "I didn't say that and I shouldn't say that." In conclusion, Mr Casado, this humble minister, who may not be at his institutional level, would not - I sincerely say - like to be in his place. [[laughs]] What I am really convinced is that you, in the face of the greatest calamity in a century, did not want to be in my place or in that of this government. And this is, recently expressed, the true reason for his abstention: that of the non-position, that of the great absence of this session, the absence of his sense of state, and that this humble minister has tried to reflect hoping to be at his institutional level. You still have time to correct your vote. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Calm down. Mr Abascal, you have decided to confront, not the virus, the government, and in your intervention there has been a glaring absence of health arguments. Even from you I expected something else, let me tell you with all sincerity. Some comments following your interventions. First, I do not accept any threatening tone against any public servant. [[Applauds]] No threatening tone against any public servant! I am or am made to rectify the arguments, not the threats, be said with whatever tone they are said, a respect for Dr. Simon and for all the public health and public health professionals who are working in this country. [[Applauds]] Secondly, if I may, I recommend, without any hesitation, the reading of Title VIII of the Spanish Constitution, which we have all the Spaniards, which we must respect when making decisions, which scrupulously respects the state of alarm decree which we report to this House today and for which we call for an extension of six months. scrupulous respect for the Spanish Constitution, also in Title VIII. And if you have different ideas, defend them and try to change it, but in the meantime, we must all respect it, also you and your political group. And let me also say that some of your statements purporting to speak on behalf of all the Spaniards are, at least, a reckless point after last week this House, which represents all the Spaniards, gave you support for your motion of censure of only 52 votes and had 298 against. Therefore, a point of humility and sense of reality too, Mr Abascal. Mr Echenique, you mentioned ten certainties - I would like to thank you for the tone of your speech and your support for extending the state of alarm - and I agree with most of them. He spoke of the obligation to tell the truth to the citizens, of what we know about this virus - I completely agree - to move a framework of certainty to the extent possible and of a moral obligation to try to avoid political confusion and to give a message of unity. I totally agree with you. Surely his scientific training helps him to express this type of opinion, in addition to his usual moderate and calm tone. He said that the epidemiological situation is serious and that is so, even I would say that it is very serious and therefore we have to transfer it to the citizens. He has said that the mobility restrictions are those that we have known so far that hinder the evolution of the epidemic, it is true, and therefore it is a clear recommendation to restrict mobility and facilitate measures to the autonomous communities, to the presidents of the autonomous communities, so that they can do so when their epidemiological situation so advises. He has spoken - and I join in his words and I want to thank him - of the attitude of responsibility of the Spaniards in their vast majority. There are always exceptions, it is usual, but they have a very responsible attitude and I agree with you and I want to recognize it. He has manifested the false dichotomy between health and economy because there is no one without the other. The economy is the main social determinant of health and we therefore need a robust economy, but without health there is no economy, the two things are intertwined, as you have highlighted very well. Finally, I have been drawn to the attention that by referring to anti-science, I have used the expression quincala and, if you allow me to adjective it; harmful quincala that kills. Because if anyone wants to discuss terraplanism and whether or not we've gone to the moon, it doesn't kill people; it doesn't kill people; it's about the usefulness of science in relation to vaccines that kills people, and that's where we have to be ruthless. We must be relentless from science and from politics. Mr. Rufián, you have pulled out with a very strong expression - you are a man of round expressions from this rostrum - but you have caught my attention and I have picked up in my notes: Either we stop the country or we run out of country. What we are trying precisely with this set of measures that we offer to the presidents of autonomous communities is to avoid a confinement like the one we had in March. I think, frankly, I can make a mistake, it will not be the first time, that if we move the sense of gravity of the situation to the citizens and take decisive measures, we will succeed, but it is not safe. There are therefore fifteen decisive days in that direction. This is - you said the second - the third state of alarm; the first was that of 14 March and the second one was specifically for the Community of Madrid, which we also had to account for in this House, as we are bringing here today. He has also said, in my opinion correctly, that the citizens will forgive us for excessive prudence, but not for the signs of unconsciousness, and I agree; the more prudence, the better. Therefore, here we are, offering this set of measures to the presidents of autonomous communities. The amendments that your group has tabled, and which had already announced in my initial speech that we are prepared to accept with regard to bimonthly accountability by the President of the Government, monthly by the speaker, and the possibility, in four months, with a favourable report from the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System and decision of the Conference of Presidents, to withdraw the state of alarm and also strengthen the social shield, are measures with which we agree. You have put a lot of emphasis on the fact that this state of alarm is different from that of March, and that is true. I have tried to explain this, and I would not like to reiterate my arguments, it is very different from what we adopted in March, although it is still a state of alarm that requires the approval and approval of this House because it restricts some fundamental rights and freedoms and so establishes our Constitution. I would like in general to thank the constructive attitude of your group, and it will allow me to emphasize once again that it was already in August when the President of the Government made available to the Autonomous Communities the possibility of requesting a state of alarm, if they considered it appropriate to do so for their territory, and that he also guaranteed the support of the two groups whose political formations make up the Government. It has been ten autonomous communities, including Catalonia, that requested this state of alarm that we are discussing today and reporting on its adoption and requesting its extension. Thank you very much, therefore, for your tone. Mrs Borràs, I am not going to enter - and I am not going to take it as a disregard for it because it is not, but it is not the subject of the debate - into those considerations which are not strictly sanitary. I have a very distant and different political position from yours on some issues, which I am not going to debate today because I think we would disfocus the debate. I will simply remind you that it was the Government of which your group is part that called for the state of alarm. I would like to see that the voting decision you make, and that I have not been able to deduce from your speech, is consistent with the request made by your own Government, among others. Mr Íñigo Errejón, I thank you for your vote in favour. It is true that in the days when I have had the opportunity to discuss with you you have always placed the emphasis on going to the foundations; more trackers, more sanitary, more teachers to decrease the ratio, improvements in public transport. This is very important, indeed, and we must not forget it. That is to say, this is not only solved by exceptional measures such as those we propose to adopt in this House for a period of months, non-pharmacological measures of social distancing, but we must indeed go to the foundations; and we do not forget, we debate them weekly and review them at the Sectoral Conference of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. But I thank you for focusing here. It will also allow me to point out that the draft General Budgets of the State that was presented yesterday offers, in our view - this House will have the opportunity to amend it if it considers it appropriate to improve it - an extraordinary set of resources, unprecedented in our democracy, as unprecedented is the situation we face, in order to strengthen with economic resources the decision-making in this set of areas that you have mentioned. In the area of accountability, we have already expressed our predisposition in the sense that some groups have claimed. I also believe that it is worth highlighting from this alarm decree - it was already in the last extensions of the first - respect for the institutional framework and governance mechanisms. I thank Mr Baldoví very much for his favourable vote and for all his contributions in this regard. You have been characterized by a responsible attitude always, at least I have seen it this way, in relation to the measures to be taken in this pandemic. They have always done so from a critical position, as is normal, but I thank you for the seriousness and responsibility of your opposition. Mr Rego, I also thank you for your critical support. We have never intended support that is not critical. I am grateful for the considerations you have made and, in addition, for your recognition that we are facing a complex problem, it is enough to see the situation in the world and in particular in Europe to understand it. It is true that we must continue to strengthen the health system, it is also true - in my opinion, at least - that the State General Budgets offer resources to continue to do so, I no longer mention the lost, non-reimbursable 16 billion that have been made available to the autonomous communities, and they also offer a set of measures and resources to alleviate the economic and social effects of the crisis. Mrs Arrimadas, I thank you for your support for this extension, also with some points of criticism. It is consistent with what your group has been doing - and I would also like to acknowledge this - in all areas, both in the Committee on Health and when we have had the opportunity to debate in this Chamber. Let me tell you that I feel very comfortable doing these interventions. I also sincerely thank you for two aspects which I find very relevant in your speech. The first - if I may say so, very successful and I at least want to underline and share - is to focus on what citizens are living; those who are admitted to hospitals, those who are admitted to intensive care units, those who have family members having a bad time, those who are recovering from the side effects of this damn virus, those who have had to close their business, those who are in an ERTE or an ERO, those who do not know what will happen tomorrow. This is the focus that we must not all lose sight of. We can disagree about the solutions, but I think we all share the goal, which is to alleviate the pain of the citizens, and you seem to me to have focused here. There are those who can put more emphasis on whether we have done things better or worse here - we will evaluate it at the moment - but it is enough to take a virtual turn around Europe to see that what happens in Spain is no different from what is happening in France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Portugal, the Netherlands, Germany, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria and any other country in the East. This is what our society, Europe, the Western world is living through. You have called for no political misunderstanding, in my view, with a point of injustice because you said that the Government encourages it, and I assure you that at least we are not aware of it. If we defend our political positions and our solutions, I will tell you that vehemently at times, it is our obligation, but nothing further from our pretensions. On the contrary, I believe that your group is a witness to this because every time you have had a proposal or made a recommendation or suggestion has been met, it has been studied and, if we have valued it as valuable, we have incorporated it in recognition of who was proposing it. I am calling for a national plan of rebounds and a second wave, and in my view there is a sure improvement, but there has been since 16 July; the early response plan that we agreed with all the autonomous communities is the national plan for the second wave and has been developed technically in the document that we approved, the action guide of 22 October, in line with what other European countries have done and also in line with what international agencies recommend. I have done what I have been able to do with the Madrid Autonomous Community and have had the opportunity to have several meetings with members of the Government - some of them from their political background - who will be able to transfer to it that we have always tried to go with the utmost willingness to help and the most constructive spirit possible; if not, it is not understood that the President of the Government himself will travel on a Monday several weeks ago to the headquarters of the Government of the Madrid Community to offer support. I also thank him for having shown that the state of alarm is a constitutional mechanism; indeed, it is a constitutional mechanism. On the attitude of the President of the Government I would just like to recall two things - to you and to other groups that have referred to this -; the President of the Government on 23 October, on Friday, appeared before all the Spaniards and took stock of how the epidemic is progressing. On the same afternoon several autonomous communities requested what he offered in August, which was the state of alarm, and he has appeared before this Parliament more than any other president and on more than twenty-seven occasions. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel pronounces words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u57	Mr. Hispan Churches of Ussel, please, I ask you to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u58	Mr Aitor Esteban, I have to thank you and your group for your consistency, which is not an easy thing to achieve and so I will allow myself to highlight it to you. You have said that the moment is serious and, indeed, I agree with you; the moment, in my opinion, is very serious and I thank you very much for having had that European look so habitual - if you will allow me - of your group and of yourself, which allows you to give a context and sometimes give meaning and some response to what is happening to us, because what is happening in Spain, in the Basque Country, in Catalonia, perhaps with the sole exception of the Canary Islands, is no different from what is happening in Europe. That is why it is so important to strengthen European response mechanisms. I am particularly proud, not of what I have done, but of what Europe has done with regard to vaccines, for example; a European strategy of vaccines that is bearing fruit - we have already closed three contracts and are working on four others - and in which also - to counter what you have called the Spanish gene to always cast ash on us - our country is playing a relevant role. Spain is one of the seven countries we are negotiating and the technicians of the Spanish Agency for Medicines and Sanitary Products have a very relevant and highly valued role - and I want to say this in this House - by our European partners in order to obtain safe and effective vaccines as soon as possible. Also, to counter this damn Spanish gene of seeing only what we have done wrong - and I understand that here we want to focus on this by some ladies and gentlemen - we have the study of seroprevalence; a study that has not done any other country in Europe and that they take as a reference in the world, in the world! And we have done so with the Autonomous Communities and with respect to the constitutional and competitive framework of the Autonomous Communities. It is exciting to see how together, the autonomous communities, Spanish science, the Carlos III Institute of Health, we have managed to make a reference study in the world that will have continuity in a fourth, fifth wave... Now, this is not what we're saying here. You are right, the Spanish gene, we only focus on the bad; for from time to time it is also good to say something good, indeed, in a very complex context, of great uncertainty, in which - you have said it with all the courage and I say it too - we do not know what is going to happen with certainty in three weeks - we do not know it or anyone knows it - and therefore we take the most sensible measures, always guided by science and with respect for the institutional framework. I therefore thank you for your consistency and wisdom. You have emphasized, in a very emphatic way, that this state of alarm is different from the previous one. I too would like, if possible, to get the citizens transferred that this does not mean that we are six months old with all the active measures; it is an enablement. It will have been alarmed, but it will be an enablement so that the presidents of the autonomous communities, depending on the epidemiological situation, can activate these measures or deactivate them with agility and with contunence proportional to how the epidemiological reality of a territory is, and with flexibility because the virus is not equal in the Canary Islands, Navarre, Galicia, Asturias, Madrid or Catalonia. So, I think this is okay. I would ask Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua to reconsider her abstention and to proceed to the affirmative vote, if possible, because you yourself have acknowledged that this state of alarm is necessary, although, in your view, it is insufficient. He spoke of the need to complete it with social measures. Well, here we have budgets that are going to be debated and approved, I hope soon, and that provide the resources necessary to deal with the social and economic consequences of the virus. But I urge you to reconsider your abstention and support this state of alarm. Furthermore, your group - I have told you in private and I do not think I am committing any indiscretion if I say so in public - in the Committee on Health you have always had very sound interventions, from a health point of view; and I must honestly say that I was surprised that you did not have a clearer position in this debate. He talked about pandemic fatigue. [[Show a document]] This is the document - I will send it to you - that was published yesterday by the World Health Organization. It is a brief document but it actually talks about a matter that we will have to deal with in the next few days and a lot, which is this tiredness that we all have, but which we must fight because it is essential that we fight it in order to be able to defeat the virus again. As for the Joint Group, Mrs Vehí, you tell me that we are passing the problem to the autonomous communities, but when there was a single command, I do not remember you supporting it, so I ask for a little coherence. I also tell you that if you want competences, you have to exercise them and you have to know how to face them when the competences sometimes lead to difficult or complex decisions and, moreover, having the guarantee - look at what I say to you - that the autonomous communities count on the Government of Spain when they make those decisions, as we have done so far, because we have discussed before, but we have never stopped giving protection to what they have done. With regard to the social measures which concern you, I refer to the debate which I hope will soon be completed in this House on the general budgets of the State. Mrs Oramas, the vehemence of your speech, which is typical of a very pleased Member of Parliament such as yourself, contrasts with the good situation in the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands. We must always go very cautiously, because this is not the first time we see that a territory with an epidemiologically favourable situation in a short time becomes worse, or even at the country level. Right now, Canarias is doing the right thing. It is not that tourism in the Canary Islands has fallen, it has fallen all over the world. Fortunately, thanks to the good work that has been done from the autonomous community, the citizens of the Canary Islands can face the tourist season that starts these days under much better conditions. Mr Sayas López, as far as valuing human life is concerned, at best, we tie. It makes no sense for you to discuss it with me or anyone else, because we all in this House give the right value to human life, and a competition to see who values it most, honestly seems barren and inappropriate to me. I would simply recommend a virtual trip to Europe. I have no problem with you being critical of the measures that the Government has taken, including decisions that we have taken from the Ministry of Health, because it is your role and your right, but those criticisms you make would gain in consistency and credibility if you contextualised them with what is happening in Europe. If someone listens to you, it seems that in Europe things are going well, that hospitals are empty, that there is no full ICU and that everyone is leading life with all normality, and it is not. It seems to me a little exaggerated that you described as a trap the fact that we put before this House the extension - on the other hand, forced - of this state of alarm for a period of six months and that you even described it - will have been an excess on your part - of blackmail. You said you'd abstain. Well, listen, we have to decide. If it's hard for you to decide on this, imagine what it costs those who have to make decisions every day - I don't put myself first, I put the autonomous communities first - and also with some speed. I'm talking about humility, Mr. Sayas. I would like to thank Mr Mazón for his support, which is also consistent with his group's attitude. We are working very well with the Autonomous Community of Cantabria, as with the rest of the autonomous communities. Very good work is being done and these tools, which are already available to the president of the Autonomous Community of Cantabria, will strengthen the possibilities for action of all the autonomous communities, in particular that of Cantabria. Mr Martínez Oblanca, nor does what we propose here violate the Spanish Constitution, nor is it a contempt for Congress, but on the contrary, since what we are debating and requesting from this House is the six-month extension. It's already solving problems, let's hope it's enough to solve them all. Mr. Guitarte, from Teruel Existe, is also grateful for his support. He mentioned Spain emptied and referred to the situation of Alcañiz and Teruel, which I continue with the councilwoman of the Autonomous Community of Aragon. I am aware of the situation at Teruel Hospital, the other day I had a conversation with the counselor in this regard and I know that steps are being taken to strengthen it. The commitment to act with transparency and always with scientific basis is in place. In fact, we have always tried to act this way. Finally, I would like to thank the Socialist Group's spokesman, Adriana Lastra, for her support, the Socialist Group's always warm support. I find the distinction between the image we give and the one we bring to this House very relevant and very suggestive. It is true, and at this time and in debates that affect public health, this must be kept in mind. I also felt very certain about the concise and well-focused distinction between the media and objective debate, I agree with you. I believe that here we all want to defeat the virus, bend the curve and forget about it as soon as possible. Therefore, that is where we have to focus the discussion and not the media. It is true that the state of alarm has been requested by the Autonomous Communities, although it is also true that there was an offer by the President of the Government in August. There has been a formal request from ten autonomous communities, and it is true that the state of alarm also provides a framework for support and security for the autonomous communities, as Mr Esteban said, so that they can make decisions within months. I agree with you that it will not be one more day or one more minute than strictly necessary, but it will be every day and every minute that is necessary, obviously, with respect to our existing legal framework. By the way, I believe that you are well aware that the state of alarm adopted by the Government has obtained the favourable opinion of the Council of State, which is no less. The first Vice-President of the Government had the opportunity to publicly thank the Councillors for their promptness and willingness to draw up an opinion in such a short period of time. It is obvious that parliamentary control mechanisms are in place and available and that there is therefore no will or possibility of escaping from them. On the contrary, this is the seat of national sovereignty and before it one must be held accountable for the government's action. I find it particularly encouraging to note that if we go, as some people claim, to ordinary legislation to enable these measures to be adopted, we escape this necessary parliamentary control or judicial control. I thank you for the support of your group and end as you have finished, without adding or removing any coma and asking all groups - at least those who have not done so so far - to express their support for this request for extension. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u59	Thank you, Minister. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak for a five-minute reply. Mr Casado Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President-in-Office - Mr Sánchez - has left you a paper, Mr Illa. I understand you, Minister, because what we have seen seemed like a number of ventriloquists, who had been given a role in trying to act as a radio tertulian, trying to get on the political level by blaming this party for having no scientific criteria. Man, you say we don't have scientific criteria, honestly it's a rather unfortunate thing. Mr Illa, medicine is an exact science, unlike philosophy - with all my respect - and the results can be measured. The difference between that tweet you were saying was that you failed to say the numbers of contagions and the numbers of the deceased, which have been modulating what we supported and what we did not support. That is why we were two months in support of the state of alarm, because they arrived late and denied the pandemic, they neglected the alerts of National Security, those of the WHO and those of the European Union, and there was only the drastic confinement, to our regret. I said earlier that I liked the German, Japanese or Korean model better, but metrics also work in relative comparison with countries. Why is Portugal with four autonomy limiting not having the same contagions? Why does Greece, which is further east, as Mrs Calvo said, have fewer contagions? Why does Japan, with more population ageing, have much less contagion? Because you have done it very badly, because you as a minister have done it very badly. So what do you do? Arranging against the opposition. Why does he not resign as the Minister of New Zealand, as the Minister of Chile, as the Minister of Panama, as the Minister of Ecuador, as the Minister of Holland or as the Minister of the Czech Republic? Why don't you resign, so much humility that you distill, Mr. Illa? [[Applauds]] Why did you not accept the state health pact we proposed for five months? Oh, that's not about medicine, is it? Talk about primary care and trackers; talk about a national agency against pandemics and that there is permanent interterritorial council in Madrid with the presence of autonomies; talk about a coordination of a health system, which is public and is national, and that you are at the forefront of it, but not to get into the mockery of autonomies. That's what we left for the script you've been left with. Just look at the blue bank, just with the Minister of Territorial Policy. [[pointing to the blue bench]] This is the chronicle of an announced failure. We cannot support an alarm without a state, just as we cannot accept that you oppose health to work and rights. In any case, if the Spanish have fewer rights, you have to have more obligations, which is what you have not tried to do in this House today. Mr. Illa, you must remember this historic quote from the Caudina Horcas. You pretend we're going through them, you even say there's no legal alternative, as Mrs. Lastra said. See article 53.1 of the Spanish Constitution, which states that rights and freedoms are limited by law, or if not, why is there a Code of Circulation or an Anti-Tobacco Act or a Criminal Procedure Act or a Criminal Code? It's laws. Moreover, what I propose is organic, we would come here to make a regulation through an aggravated and exceptional constitutional procedure. But we cannot do that, Mr Illa, because that is neither unity nor loyalty; that is irresponsibility and arrogance, which is what the Government has distilled throughout this pandemic, in which they have not responded to anything we have proposed. Listen more to Mr Felipe Gonzalez, who said yesterday that this was a madness - I close quotes - or listen more to Mr Manuel Aragón, judge of the Constitutional Court, proposed by the Socialist Party, who said six months ago in El País that this was a constitutional dictatorship - I close quotes -. They've been ascribed to me for six months and it was Manuel Aragón, who said it again this week. Therefore, they cannot pretend that here - as there is no alternative legal framework because it has not given them the will to approve it - we always have to go through the exceptional process, something that no European country has put into practice. I therefore ask you, gentlemen of the Government, Mr Sánchez, to do less Sunday homilies and to respect Parliament more. Less cesarism of order and command and more respect for the Constitution, the European Union of rights and freedoms and the autonomous communities, who not only ask to leave them in the tree at the dawn of what happens, but ask for more doctors; they ask for more regulation in the face of pandemics; they ask for tests at airports and railway stations; they ask police who do not have autonomous police; in short, they ask for help from the State, which should be the one giving face, as Merkel and Macron did today. I also respect the self-employed and the SMEs, who see how they miss out on the last breath they had to endure, who ask to postpone the ERTE, who ask to postpone the ICO credits, who are also asking for a deficiency or to be exonerated from paying taxes. I respect the health care workers, Minister, who are sick of us remembering the applause and yet do not guarantee their safety, their fair remuneration and their protection. I respect the relatives of the deceased, who only ask for the recognition of how many they have been and of having at least the applause also of knowing that it will not be repeated with any other family. And finally, I respect all the Spaniards who want hope, yes, for Christmas too, especially the elderly, whom you tell them that this will last until May 9th and that we will see if we raise it, if the Interterritorial Council says so; a respect for hope, a light at the end of the tunnel. But what kind of government does this? In order not to get too close to the bull, I will say that state of alarm until May 9th and then we will see if we raise it. A little respect for those families, who don't know how they're going to spend Christmas, those older ones who are alone at home and who want to be able to embrace their children again, those young people who don't know if they're going to be able to go to class, those self-employed people who don't know when they're going to come up with the blind, in short, to that Spain that you're denying a way out of this crisis and that you're not getting to your level. Minister, react and if you decide not to resign, at least give an answer to the height of this great nation in this second wave of the pandemic. Thank you. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u61	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u62	First of all, I want to show our solidarity - I believe it is shared with all Members - with our neighbours, with France, for the new Islamist attack that has ended with a woman beheaded in a church and with two other people killed. [[Applauds]] On San Narcissus Day, ladies and gentlemen, the Emperor has decided that he should not be in this Parliament when he asked for exceptional powers from the House. We have been told here that it is the House that votes on the state of alarm. Of course, but the House cannot vote on a constitutional illegality. [[Applauds]] It is quite easy to explain: an alarm state can last for 15 days and therefore cannot be extended for six months. It's an absolute constitutional logic. That will be the basis for our appeal to the Constitutional Court, on which we will immediately demand the precautionary suspension of the state of alarm that you are going to approve here today. [[Applauds]] The champion of shame among all Members, Mr Echenique, has left, who said today that some wanted freedom to evade taxes. But how dare Mr. Echenique come here to talk about freedom to evade taxes? Do you know the freedom, Mr Echenique, not to pay social security contributions? Do you know the code of ethics of Podemos? Are you going to ask him to resign? What are you waiting for? Or do they just demand it from others? What are you waiting for? They have no shame, they have no decorum. Mr. Illa, save us, with whom you're falling, your feelings. If you want to do poetry about Madrid, do it, but I think that with what we're all going through, with what millions of Spaniards are going through, you could save us your feelings in the rostrum. Just tell us a worse government around the world, a government that has sought citizens a more severe confinement and at the same time has been one of the highest mortality rates in the world. Tell us one government. [[Applauds]] Can you tell us? Because Mr Sánchez has not been able to answer us in any of his speeches. They are permanently shielded in Europe. But if we do the same as in Europe, how is it possible that health data, economic data and data on freedoms are much worse in Spain than in Europe? How is that possible? You use Europe as a permanent alibi, but you bring us a curfew that destroys employment. And they tell us that the virus knows no borders, but they tell us that it knows timetables and intervenes the lives and schedules of the Spaniards, to an absurd extent that will only bring more ruin, Mr Illa. [[Applauds]] He has dared to come up here to say that he expected something more from us, and in particular from this spokesman, that he expected health data and that there is a clamorous absence of health data. When Mr. Steegmann, appearance after appearance, has he provided you with health data permanently served you for something? It didn't do him any good. [[Applauds]] We must also talk about economic data, we must talk about the ruin of families, about the ruin of professionals, and we must also talk about freedoms, Mr Illa. But since we're talking about freedoms, you said threats. What threats? What threats, Mr. Illa? That I have expressed my conviction, which I repeat again, that Mr Simon had to assume criminal responsibilities for the decisions he has taken? That is no threat, that is a conviction I have the right to say in this House that millions of Spaniards share. [[Applauds]] By the way, Mr. Simon and those who keep him at the post. It's no threat. So, what threats? Doctor? What doctor? That's all right. In that it is something more honorable than others. Fernando Simon clarifies the controversy: I'm not a doctor because I haven't done the doctorate.At least, he's not saying he's a doctor, like Mr. Sánchez. [[shows a press clipping]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Therefore, Mr Illa, we will vote that not with all conviction, with all conscience, because you only bring us more sickness and more ruin, and this state of alarm, Mr Illa, will not save lives, but will cause more hunger. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u63	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Abascal, I hadn't left. I was next door, listening attentively to his constructive intervention, taking off my mask because I just can't take it off, but I have no doubt that I hadn't gone anywhere. [[applause]] I keep my eyes on the thugs. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Arrimadas, I've seen you a little nervous and I understand. I know you didn't like Columbus's picture and now you're trying to get out of it, which is perfectly legitimate. Here I want to be fair, it does not seem to me wrong, I do not find it contradictory that you support the state of alarm; it seems to me to be a sensible decision and I believe that the criticisms that are cast from the right and the extreme right to your political formation by that vote are unfair. I think that you are doing what you have to do and also in coherence, but let me be surprised that you say that the accounts of the State approved by the Council of Ministers look good to you when they are accounts that historically increase public spending, that raise taxes to IBEX 35 and big fortunes, that reduce the tax benefits of private pension plans. Let me tell you that you are comfortable with something that is totally contrary to your ideology, which does not cease to surprise me. While it is legitimate for you to try to get out of Columbus Square, allow me a piece of advice: do not leave your election program behind, if you finally get out. On the subject, I believe that the health issue has been sufficiently discussed here. I have done so in my initial speech, and I agree with many parliamentary groups that taking restrictive measures is not the only thing that needs to be done. That is why I wanted to say a few more things briefly than my group thinks should be done. It has been said, but I think it is appropriate to repeat it. In addition, it should be noted that this is not the responsibility of the central State alone, but that much of the obligations I am going to enumerate below are the obligation of all administrations, many of them from the autonomous communities. It is clear that more trackers and reinforcements are needed for primary care. Some autonomous communities that have already done so, such as the Valencian Community, are in a better epidemiological place at this time than other autonomous communities. What I'm sure you don't have to do is build 50 million euros hospitals without doctors; that's for sure you don't have to. I think it would be good to do a campaign to install the Radar VOCID app; five million downloads are fine, but I think we need to aspire to much more. Countries that have better controlled the epidemic have used tracking technologies with quite a profusion. We have to work all administrations to find some solution to lighten the economic burden for families to have to buy masks and hydroalcoholic gel. I know it's not an easy topic, but I think we need to work on it. I think it is necessary to increase the frequency of public transport - it has been said here too - and to continue to help the administrations on which this depends that they can increase these frequencies. [[The Lord]] I would like to ask you a question about the seroprevalence test, since there has been an obvious community infection in this second wave, we would very well have updated data on the seroprevalence test and I wanted to ask you about the predictions in this regard. I also believe that it is clear that the most affected sectors must be helped economically. I know that we are doing this from the Government, and here we must be fair and put into value both the general budgets of the State, which we have begun to process, and the historical social shield that the coalition Government has raised, but we still need to deepen these measures. It was recently seen on social media a demolishing photo of a couple of workers at a hotel establishment. I've eaten more than once in that establishment, it's in my city, in Zaragoza...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u65	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u66	Yeah, I'm finishing up. ...and I fell on the ground to see that. I believe that we need to step up our efforts to protect the affected sectors and the population as a whole, and I am sure that we will continue to do so from the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u67	Thank you very much. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]] Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u68	Thank you very much. Briefly, I want to make three, four or five comments on what has been said here. Mr. Abascal, Mr. Simon is called a doctor because he is a doctor, you are sometimes called a soldier and has not done the militia. [[Applauds]] It's not that great, either. Mr Casado, you have literally said to Mr Illa: we cannot allow, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to put health before work. It's a beast, huh? It's a beast. In the end it is about the people of Vallecas going to put coffees or beers to their people of Núñez de Balboa. That's actually it. And he continues to mess with Mr Illa - and we have huge differences with him and his party, especially in Catalonia - with a certain classism, and they call him a philosopher's minister. Since he's a philosopher, then he doesn't know what he's talking about. And you have a president of the Community of Madrid, Mrs Ayuso, who was community manager of the Aguirre dog. If you call Mr. Illa Philosopher Minister, imagine, it's as if we called Mrs. Ayuso, president of the community, community manager. Stop disrespecting people, especially with so much classism. It comes to say again, or there are those who say, that Spain is a dictatorship, when Spain, Catalonia and Euskadi are implementing measures that are implementing many countries in the rest of Europe. Because France is wrong, Germany is wrong, Italy is wrong, United Kingdom is wrong, Holland is wrong, Czech Republic is wrong; everyone is wrong. And, besides, Spain is a dictatorship. Man, he has huge democratic shortcomings - and we know it - but as regards the implementation of measures against the virus he is doing many of the things that are being done in Europe. But I'm asking you a question. Your colleague, your friend Leopoldo López, has left, in your opinion, a dictatorship to come here to another social communist dictatorship, right? [[Applauds]] I'm done with this, and I address the people who are seeing us or who will see us. It is very likely that in a very short time, in a very few days, we will be here again debating and adopting even tougher measures. It's very likely, it's very likely. Terrorous times come, very hard, and those who tell you otherwise, directly, lie to you. And it's all about lies, it's all about politicians and politics telling lies. It's time to tell the truth. Hard times are coming, but among all of us, we must move forward, let's have the flag we have on the balcony. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u69	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, the Government of the Generalitat requested last Friday the declaration of the state of alarm, because it is about having the maximum effectiveness saving lives with the least impact on the economy, and in this I think we should all agree. On Saturday we were informed that on Sunday the Council of Ministers would approve it in terms that - oh, surprise! - it was not those who had told us that they would be. And I know you guys are a lot of Castilian refrains, but you always shut up where I said, "I say Diego." We asked for a state of alarm, yes; but this is a framework, not a breakdown of resolutions that we have elaborated in more than twenty, according to the needs of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. We are no longer talking about the six months because they have come to their senses, they have had to listen to those who demanded parliamentary control. And let's not get excited between all of us either, because getting the government to show up is not getting anything because it's their obligation. So let's try not to lower the bar so much, please, because if there is a desire to facilitate, then yes, make it easier, but don't make us commulgate with mill wheels. We called for a state of alarm that was an instrument for taking the necessary and preventive measures that scientists are pointing out to protect the lives of citizens. But we also called for it to be an instrument to support economic and labour activity, and not a single proposal. It does not allow asymmetric measures to be taken in the territory; it does not allow the state of alarm to be lifted, for example, if the situation, as we all wish, improves, always taking into account epidemiological data. It is a decree that, for example, does not allow teleworking to be regulated if we want to reduce mobility, and this in Catalonia means taking 800 000 people out of circulation every day, as the experts advise us. This is a measure that the Government of the Generalitat considers fundamental. We cannot support this state of alarm if our Government considers that this measure is, among other things, essential. An extension cannot be supported, which at first does not allow what is being requested by the central government to demand a state of alarm. So, out of responsibility, we will abstain, but we will not stop demanding the tools we need. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] We put forward measures, we put forward more than twenty proposals that we believe this decree should include to provide solutions and protection to businesses and citizens and to protect those who are most severely affected by this pandemic. And here bad acoustics is no excuse, as yesterday, they also need more glasses, because we have presented them in writing and we have received no response to these measures in that sense. Among them, for example, we spoke to him about the flexibility and adaptation of the tax regimes applicable to natural and legal persons during the state of alarm or the maintenance of ERTEs, which end on 31 December, that is, to extend them until this state of alarm is in force. This should be a measure that should already materialise because it is also necessary to resolve the saturation of SEPE's offices, which is a fact that many citizens have problems with the liquidation of these ERTs. In the first wave, the alarm decree included, among other measures, stopping evictions; in this one, no trace of them. We were talking about regulating the discharge and the voluntary reduction of working hours for quarantine care, the already famous discharge for parents who are obliged to stay at home if any of their children have to stay there because they are separated from the bubble group. At the beginning of September, according to the Vice-President's statement, it seemed that it was a measure that was already in the process of being implemented, yesterday it was adopted in the Commission on the proposal of Junts per Catalunya, and now it is only to be expected that the plenary will ratify this measure. Support for rent payments, etc. Take one example: the German Government has declared partial confinement until the end of November, and to compensate, it will pay up to 75% of the November 2019 turnover to the companies concerned. That is the importance of having a solvent government that protects the economy and works without fiscal spoils. I ended up with a clairvoyant message from Gil of Biedma, who said: 'Definitely / seems to confirm that this winter / coming, will be hard. / They advanced / the rains, and the government, / gathered in the council of ministers, / it is not known if they study at these hours / the unemployment subsidy / or the right to dismissal, / or if simply, isolated in an ocean, / just wait for the storm to pass / and arrive the day... in which, finally, / things stop coming bad.' Given their willingness to negotiate, let us hope that the day will come when, at last, they will stop things from coming wrong. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u71	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u72	As we said before, before the accidental president of Congress cut us off, he was reading the manifesto that 170,000 health professionals in our country have subscribed to. They asked, as I said before, for a national protocol, common criteria based on science, unique criteria for prevention standards, for the management of affected patients, tracking strategies, etc. And so on. In point 6 you said that a national strategic reserve of material should already be created, which we, of course, subscribe to and which you have not yet done. And finally, in one of the last points they said that on behalf of 47 million Spaniards you - you referred to politicians - have to change already so much political, professional and human inconsistency. Look, when you cut me the word, I thought it was a very good reflection of why Spain has been the worst country in the world in managing this pandemic, because you don't usually cut the word when you're insulting yourself...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u73	Your Honor, don't argue with the Bureau. Moreover, I do not want to interrupt it; you have had time, you will have the time you deserve, as it is marked on the Board of Spokesmen, you have exceeded it much, you have now these five minutes and do not waste the time necessary for your debate. Please continue without discussion with the Bureau. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to reproduce here the thick and inopportune words that you mentioned earlier to the Bureau, because it is inconceivable what you have said. And that is why I would prefer you to continue the debate calmly.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u74	It is a very good example of what has happened in Spain, because when words are being read by healthcare professionals they cut off your microphone, when they are saying insults or attacks they let you talk; that is what has happened in Spain, that is why we have come to this situation. You insist, Mr Illa, on saying: no, if this state of alarm is different from the previous one, if what we do is to divert the tools to the autonomous communities. It's just that that's the problem, Mr. Illa, that you don't lead. He says it like it's a good thing, it's a problem! And I tell you again, and I'm really sorry to say it, but I'm afraid a curfew isn't going to be enough because you're late, and someone has to tell the truth, you probably have to come here and ask for another state of alarm with more drastic measures. And we're consistent, we won't be able to say the same thing to other parties. We voted the same and said from the outset that this was not an issue in which you interfered in the autonomous communities or not and changed your mind twenty times. You have to lead. A state of alarm is a democratic tool? Yes, but, man, don't lower your accountability, that we're almost going to have to thank Mrs. Lastra for continuing to run control sessions in the middle of the pandemic. Of course they'll have to do control sessions! But when rights are restricted, accountability must be increased, it is something of a democracy first. But I will tell you more, Mr Illa, the problem that you do not lead the answer, the problem that the President of the Government does not present the alarm state is not only a democratic problem, it is a problem of effectiveness of the measures. When you don't lead, people are uncertain, people have to be watching what happens in every autonomous community, nobody dares to take over and people will do less. Not only is it a democratic shame, it is bad for the effectiveness of the plan that you wash your hands and that the president does not appear. We need a president like Macron or Merkel to say: I take these measures in the first person, they are necessary, all to one. And of course we'd have unity! For our part, it wouldn't stay and you know it, and you know it. We had to force them to come three times in six months because the president didn't want to come any. It's not normal, but it's not just a problem of accountability, it's a problem of effectiveness. Because you, Minister, are very focused on managing communication, not on managing the pandemic. They are very focused on the fact that Mr. Pedro Sánchez does not wear out the image, but not on the fact that the toilets do not wear out in hospitals or families in their homes. I understand that managing this is very difficult, it would have been very difficult for any government of any political colour, and I tell you without any kind of problem, I tell you without any kind of problem, but you have to manage and not leave the management of the pandemic to a communication expert, that's what you're doing. Because the only reason for you to take responsibility for the autonomous communities is for the government not to wear out, and it is not serious, it brings us problems, we will be late again and you will have to come here and ask for more forceful measures. I wish I was wrong, really, I wish. And with regard to the budgets, I understand that Mr Echenique is angry because, if he promises to repeal the labour reform, 15% of company VAT, VAT to the agreed VAT and the special VAT to what they have done, I imagine they are pissed off. But I only tell you one thing, Mr Illa, we are in time to rectify, we are in time to save many lives and to save many jobs. Correct, please, and assume your responsibility; we are on time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u75	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause]] No, no, For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, use this reply to explain the Socialist Group's sense of vote on the amendments that have been tabled. This spokesman does not intend to frustrate the joys of some groups or the ego of some spokesman who has come out to the rostrum, but even before some groups raised their discomfort with the state of alarm adopted on Sunday, Republican Left and the Socialist Group were already negotiating the amendment that we are going to support from Republican Left of Catalonia. You will understand that some of us work hard so that others in the end seem to take the merit. No, this is a Republican Left and Socialist Group thing. We will also support that of the Basque Nationalist Party, as we also approved, as Mr Esteban recalled, on 9 May. And there is another amendment which seems to us to be timely but which is outside the scope of the decree, which is the one tabled by the PDECAT, by Mr Ferran Bel, with regard to the shock plan. We share your concern and accept the proposal, and what is happening is that we cannot support it for what it said before, because it is outside the scope of the royal decree. Mr. Married, regarding your inquiry, I'm going to try to explain it to you better. Fundamental rights are not limited in general, either by organic law or by ordinary law. Therefore, the constituent wrote article 116 of the Constitution. That's why. Generally speaking, Mr. Casado. [[Applauds]] The truth is that what we have seen these days shows that when the People's Party and Mr. Married want a pact, there is a pact, and when they don't want it, there is no pact. When Mr. Married and the People's Party want chryspation, there is chryspation, and when they don't want chryspation, there is no chryspation. I said this in my speech at the previous plenary session, and in the last two years I have said the same thing to him in all my speeches: abandon confrontation, abandon extremism and bring his party to centrality, moderation and dialogue. In fact, I was surprised last Thursday by your intervention in the motion of censure, because you committed yourself to taking your party to this path of moderation. But I also asked him to turn those words into deeds. Ten minutes after his speech - and some spokesman has already explained it in this rostrum - Members of the People's Party had already been seen writing tweets about dictatorship, despotism, insulting the President of the Government and the Socialist Group. After listening to you today, we see that the People's Party is back on track. At least today they abstained in this vote, and that is already a step, a change in the state of alarm a few months ago, as I said before, Mr Casado; at least they did not vote against it, and that is important. So, and keep this, I'll reach out to you again, Mr. Casado, I'll do it again. We are waiting for you on the responsibility, we are waiting for you on the moderation and we are waiting for you on the facts, and I believe that, like this parliamentary group, many others in the House too. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u77	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank all those groups that have expressed their support for the extension of the alarm decree their position and highlight the will of all the members of this House to bend the curve and defeat the virus. On the other hand, there is a discrepancy about the means to be used. But I want to point out that we all want to bend the curve and win the virus. I would also like to make it clear that the most relevant things are now moving, truthfully, telling the truth, messages to citizens, as has been done by many speakers and I have also tried to do: we are in a very worrying situation in Europe, not only in Spain. [[The lady]] In the coming weeks, depending on what we do, things will evolve one way or another. I therefore call for the recommendations of the health authorities to be followed, as has been done in a majority way so far. It is important in this regard to provide a stable and secure framework for decision-making to the presidents of the autonomous communities. And to those political formations that have expressed their willingness not to give support or their initial willingness not to give support to the extension, I would like to say that the decision is either to tie their shoulders by building a stable decision-making framework or to confront the Government. And there, Mr. Married, you're going to allow me to appeal again to you and your political formation, because everything you won in a week seems to lose you in the next and the trip to the center doesn't mean being in the middle. The abstention is interpreted in this debate as an absence of position. We are in the most important pandemic, in the most important emergency crisis in our country, and I am addressing you especially as the main opposition group, but I am extending it to those who have expressed their abstention, to reconsider and support an absolutely necessary measure for decision-making in the coming months. In the end, the vote ends up indicating the real meaning of the debate and by the expression of vote that some of your ladies and gentlemen have expressed - and I thank you, I started by thanking you - the Government will come out with support from this state of higher alarm than we had in the last stages of the first decree of the state of alarm. Don't stay out of this, add to this. Let us build a solid majority, give a message of unity and all together defeat the virus. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u79	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. New point. Acts in relation to the state of alarm, exception and site. Request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 926/2020 of 25 October, declaring the state of alarm to contain the spread of infections caused by SARS-Cov-2. Voting on the proposals of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 88 plus 255 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 2 telematics votes; 65 plus 192 telematics votes, 257; abstentions, 23 plus 61 telematics votes, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u81	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 88 plus 256 telematics votes, 344; 26 telematics votes, 88 plus 229 telematics votes, 317; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u82	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 88 plus 256 telematics votes, 344; 27 telematics votes, against 79 plus 203 telematics votes, 282; abstentions, 9 plus 26 telematics votes, 35.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u83	They're rejected. Vote on the proposal from the Basque Parliamentary Group for an extension of the state of alarm. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 88 plus 256 telematics votes, 344; 65 plus 131 telematics votes, 196; 23 plus 124 telematics votes, 147; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u84	It's approved. Vote on the proposals of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm, in the terms of the agreement of its admission to procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 88 plus 255 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 15 telematics votes; against, 88 plus 235 telematics votes, 323; abstentions, 5 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u85	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 90 plus 256 telematics votes, 346; 24 telematics votes, against 90 plus 227 telematics votes, 317; abstentions, 5 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u86	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón and Mr Baldoví, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 90 plus 256 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 23 plus 83 telematics votes, 106; against, 67 plus 167 telematics votes, 234; abstentions, 6 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u87	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm under the terms of the agreement on its admission to procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 90 plus 256 telematics votes, 346; 26 telematics votes, against 90 plus 225 telematics votes, 315; abstentions, 5 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u88	They're rejected. Voting on the Plural Parliamentary Group's proposals, Mr Bel, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 90 plus 256 telematics votes, 346; 23 telematics votes, against 90 plus 232 telematics votes, 322; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u89	They're rejected. Vote on the Republican Parliamentary Group's proposal for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 91 plus 255 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 67 plus 122 telematics votes, 189; against, 24 plus 126, 150; abstentions, 7 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u90	It's approved. Voting of the proposals of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to the request for extension of the state of alarm in the terms of the agreement of its admission to procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 91 plus 256 telematics votes, 347; 24 plus 66 telematics votes, 90; no 67 plus 188 telematics votes, 255; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u91	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from now on, at 14:05 until 15:05, that is, for an hour, the authorization of the extension of the state of alarm can be voted on telematically. The vote on this item will take place, together with the other votes, at the end of all the items on the agenda. This plenary session includes the debate and adoption of an opinion of the Committee on Organic Legislative Initiative, is agenda item 42, which has to be put to a final vote on the whole, which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, pursuant to this provision, I announce that the votes will not take place before 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u92	We continue with the point corresponding to the amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft law regulating certain aspects of trusted electronic services. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary continues, I ask you to remain silent, please. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for positions by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause]] As we are not in plenary, we move on to the next group's intervention. Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] I'm asking you to be quiet, please. Anyone who has to leave the Chamber should do so quickly. If you want to have a conversation, do it outside the Chamber, please. [[Pause]] Thank you. You have the floor, Mrs Muñoz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u93	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue which I rise to defend is not as important in the short term as a state of alarm, but it is important and vitally important if we talk or think about the medium and long term of our country and of our society, we talk about digital transformation. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is one more step on the road to the future. Today this House is committed to digital transformation as the cornerstone of our modern society, and it is that digital identity, ladies and gentlemen, is the essential element that allows citizens to relate to each other and to institutions through technology. In other words, digital identity will help citizens make payments, buy a home, pay their taxes or be able to enroll in the university through a screen, to give some examples, and this can be achieved because digital identity guarantees legitimacy, security and legality, the same legitimacy, security and legality that gives us, for example, our passport or our national identity document. In short, we must bring to the digital environment what already works in the physical world: eliminate duplication, paperwork, promote rights and make life easier for citizens. I said at first, ladies and gentlemen, that these issues were going to be very relevant, and above all now, in times of pandemic and of the so-called new normality, which has accelerated the process of digitisation. From night to morning, the Spaniards moved from the street to the Internet and almost forcibly jumped into the digital world, and in that digital world we public servants must help them and facilitate access to digital services. We will therefore vote in favour because we have an obligation to promote the economic development of society and prepare it for the new global challenges. [[The lady]] As you can see, this law can mark a before and after in the digital transformation in Spain, a transformation that we have an obligation to enhance. Spain must lead the digital revolution, that must be a clear goal in our medium-term agenda: secure and easy-to-use digitization, what the geeks call usability. We, Citizens, are clear. We are a modern and innovative party. We have been working at all levels for a long time to ensure that Spain is at the forefront of digital identification, looking at the most advanced EU countries. We have met with manufacturers of identification technology, service providers, the rest of the parliamentary groups and the Ministry of Economy itself. We have discussed, learned and contributed ideas to that debate. Throughout the process of this project we have tabled various amendments to ensure that the verification of the digital identity is made use of technology and can deploy its full potential and importance, for example, in places such as rural Spain, where with the digital identity it should be possible to do all the procedures, without going to a single office. And in reference to this, we are pleased that in these meetings and meetings with the Ministry of Economy and the Secretariat of State for Digital Transformation, the Government has committed itself to making video identification at the same level as other methods of identification through the development of the ministerial order of this law. I conclude now, ladies and gentlemen, and ask you not to waste time and not to lose the digitalisation train. Our democracy and our rights and freedoms must move forward together with those of the citizens, and we cannot stay behind. To do this, we have to design safe, useful and accessible infrastructures, infrastructures that provide solutions, that accompany the Spaniards in the process of digitization with all the guarantees and also infrastructures that drive our companies, which will make our economy grow. Let us face the future together, ladies and gentlemen, and accompany society on this path. That must be our role. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u94	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u95	Thank you, President. I'll be very brief. The purpose of this bill was to incorporate a Community regulation into our legal system. We, along with other political formations, drafted different amendments, some of which were admitted in agreement with the Government and the parties supporting it and others were approved with the favorable vote of groups present in the Economics Committee, which have been completely revoked in the Senate. At the time we supported the law and voted in favour, we even warned them that we would be willing to vote in favour regardless of the outcome of the amendments. However, when the amended bill from the Senate to Congress returns, all those who were approved in committee with the vote against the Socialist Party and United We may have been revoked and come to plenary. This is legitimate, it is part of the game and the parliamentary structure and therefore no legal, but political, reproach, and that is why, being aware that this law is going to be passed, to bear witness to our disagreement that those amendments adopted in the Commission should be revoked in the Senate and return to this House, we are going to vote against the proposal that we are voting on today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u97	Thank you very much, President. There are groups in this House who consider that the best regulation of markets is the lack of regulation, the less the state intervenes through better regulation. There are groups that believe in the deregulated markets, that believe that the markets are self-regulating, that continue to believe in Adam Smith's invisible hand even though reality proves otherwise. We, on the other hand, believe that for efficient markets to exist, it is essential that the State guarantee a safe regulatory environment by law. The game of markets, like all games, depends on the rules of the game. A deregulated market is a chaotic and inefficient market. Relationships between people, businesses and administrations to be efficient need a legal security environment, a certainty environment in which to move. The level of reliability of social relations is a fundamental element in determining the level of progress of a society. That is how our parliamentary group sees it, and that is why we are going to support this law, because it transposes a directive from the European Union that seeks precisely to strengthen the conditions of trust with which public administrations guarantee legal traffic and limit the dysfunctions that arise from the lack of regulation or of limited and different regulations from one country to another despite being part of a single market. Confidence is an essential element and it is essential to strengthen the reliability of electronic services, to create an environment in which its work is difficult for those who always seek to take advantage of the lack of regulation or regulatory dysfunctions. The draft law that we are discussing is about regulating instruments that are commonly used by businesses, citizens and the public administration. In particular, this project refers to trusted electronic services such as the signature and electronic seal of natural and legal persons. The draft law regulates, inter alia, the verification of the identity and attributes of applicants for a qualified certificate, the liability and risk-forecasting regime of service providers, the maximum duration of certificates, the retention time of service delivery data, the legal effects of electronic documents when using a qualified trust service and a new sanctioning regime extended to all trust services and appropriate to the European regulation. Mr Bel has already pointed out that corrections have been made in the Senate and the text adopted there has been highly agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation we are experiencing has made dependence on technologies more important. During these months digitisation has become an essential instrument in households, businesses and the public administration, hence the timeliness of this normative text. Digitalisation will play a very important role in rebuilding our economy. In fact, it is one of the pillars on which the European funds are based Next Generation and one of the four cross-cutting axes of the Government's Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which absorbs 33% of investments. We must work to ensure that the digitization processes of our economy and society act as a lever for social and territorial inclusion and cohesion, promoting the reduction of digital gaps in gender, generational, territorial and socio-economic reasons. Digitisation should serve as a tool to drive an inclusive economy, enhancing activities with greater added value and more sustainable in environmental terms. In conclusion, the importance of the general State budgets presented by the Government for all of this to go forward derives from the foregoing. We have a unique opportunity to begin to overcome the productive model based on the binomial of predator tourism and construction and to advance in the implementation of a new productive model. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz Dalda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Jiménez Revuelta has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u99	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, with a strong technical character, presented at the initiative of the Government, was born last 28 February in Congress to comply with the European Union's eIDAS regulation on electronic identification and trust services. This same law was the subject of debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation and was adopted with full legislative competence on 29 June. The presentation in the Commission allowed the various parliamentary groups to agree on the amendments tabled, against the will of the Social Communist Executive, which admitted only two transactions, and what appeared to be a totalitarian roller became a jar of cold water through the adoption of fourteen twenty-eight amendments. This same law was referred to the Senate and has been debated in the Upper House. Having introduced new amendments, he returned to Congress for approval and subsequent sanction and publication in the BOE. But, ladies and gentlemen, the striking thing about the legislative process that we have in Spain is that, following the success of the agreements adopted in the Congressional paper, the Socialist Party takes advantage of its subsequent processing in the Senate to recover what is lost in the Congress, and for this reason it decides to table amendments that serve to modify and bring down the agreements adopted in the Lower House, in particular by presenting six amendments with the following justification: to recover the wording of the original text of the bill by virtue of legal technical suitability, that is, to completely invalidate the agreements adopted in the Lower House and to minimize the effort made during the presentation. This makes me reflect on the Constitutional Court's ruling by stating that the High Chamber cannot pass or reject laws, but can only introduce amendments, nor can it put bits in any law if they have nothing to do with the object of it. The Senate today has the legislative powers of a Congressional Commission, so we affirm that there is duplicity in the work done and, therefore, it entails superfluous expenditure for the State that should be eliminated and allocated that budget line to incentivize the economy and help create and generate employment. [[Applauds]] Eliminating the Senate is a Martian idea that VOX proposes? Is he an extremist? Do your ladies and gentlemen remember the agreement for a reformist and progress government reached by Sánchez and Rivera in 2016? In that agreement, they both defended turning the Senate into a real territorial chamber, limiting the number of senators and, if it was not finally achieved, calling for it to be closed. This should be the way, but of course, ladies and gentlemen, there are many favors to return. That's why VOX does what it says, while others do the opposite of what they say. [[Applauds]] It is the Upper House, to which VOX in the last elections of November presented only one candidate and clearly benefited the People's Party, in such a way that of the fifty-six senators who obtained in the elections of April of the previous year, they became eighty-three senators in the elections of the 10N, that is, twenty-seven more senators, in a win by VOX to concentrate the vote of the centreright and allow to have a majority to apply in their case article 155 of the Spanish Constitution after what happened in Catalonia. This gesture, gentlemen of the People's Party, is far from what we have come here, we are not as you heard last week in this House, which shows the difference between those who, by their actions, set an example and those who, by their words, cast a grudge and hatred. [[Applauds]] But let us go to the bill before us, first with regard to article 7 and to the verification and identity of the applicants. The COVID crisis has further accentuated the need for a digital transformation that will put us at the forefront not only of Europe but of the world, but the drafting of this bill was done earlier. Specifically, from the point of view of trust services, it cannot be that most of the relationships that need trust are designed to have to take place in a physical presence. Therefore, it was vital to incorporate into this bill one of the key processes of digital transformation, which is remote digital identification or telepersonation, and in the opinion sent by the Senate and thanks to the insistence of VOX and other parliamentary groups, videoconferencing or videoidentification is collected as a means of verifying the identity of the natural person when applying for the electronic certificate. Secondly, with regard to the third additional provision, on DNI and electronic certificates, this parliamentary group stressed the need for electronic DNI to have the same benefits as an electronic certificate, which ultimately has the greatest utility. An electronic certificate can be used from anywhere, from any browser, while the electronic DNI needs technical requirements for its use, such as having certain hardware and software elements. And, thirdly, I do not want to miss the opportunity to comment on the amendment that the Basque Nationalist Party has tried to introduce with a new additional provision in which it requested a system of national notification as a means of electronic identification by the Autonomous Communities, something which said so sounds good but which closed the possibility of being able to grant the so-called Basque DNI, in line with the evil so-called Catalan DNI of Tsunami Democrático and the digital republic that is to be established in Catalonia. The PNV, while others are making noise, quietly and gradually achieves its goal. Let us hope that President Sánchez's words about the Catalan digital republic: 'there will be no offline or online independence' will not be another fallacy of a government based on lies and succumbs to the pressures of its independent partners. Even with the discrepancies manifested, we will support this law. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Jiménez Revuelta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Pedreño Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u101	Thank you very much, President. The creation of the euro in 1999 for a new common economic area was the key to competing in a global market. Today, in 2020, systems for the identification of natural and legal persons are the basis of the new digital economy. Today, finally, we close here the processing of a law drawn up at its inception by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation to adapt our country's eIDAS regulation of the year 2014 of the European Parliament, on electronic identification in the internal market. This bill we had on the table before the crisis generated by the COVID-19 and, while before it was important this transposition as a tool to speed up digital transformation in Spain, the current situation of confinements, limitations in displacements, telework, online trade, teleassistance, etc., requires speeding up the implementation of the mechanisms contemplated by this law. That is why we are here, with an almost definitive text that has the consensus of almost all. However, I cannot resist commenting on the situation in Spain with regard to electronic certifications and digital identifications. You will see, in Spain, not more than 20% maturity in the digitisation of the Administration if the degree of progress of the digital processes and the use by the citizens are taken into account. In fact, the number of identities, such as electronic DNI or certificates, for example issued by the National Currency and Stamp Factory, does not exceed 20 %. But, moreover, it is even less used, it is 1 % and, essentially, it is intended for the compulsory formalities of self-employed persons and companies for their relationship with the Tax Agency. Today Spain is far behind Europe by not allowing qualified electronic certificates, which show the digital identity of each citizen, to be granted more than face-to-face, which is, of course, a real delay. Today in Spain it takes eight months to apply for a work permit for a highly qualified person who wants to come to our country to collaborate, for example, in digitisation or in the scientific field. Today Spain is the fourth country by the line to create a company. It takes a day in Estonia thanks to digital identity. Hence foreign investment in Spain is the lowest in the European ranking. Germany, for example, thanks to the distribution of financing that precisely allows digital identity, accounts for 80% of the European Union's investment; Spain, 7%. In addition, there is a paradox that Spain is the country that has the largest market for trusted electronic service providers that are also being bought by foreign companies, as regulatory facilities are greater. In short, today we are discussing a text that is the result of consensus in Congress and Senate, but which in some respects highlights the priorities of this Government with regard to digital transformation. In fact, I believe that Minister Calviño should be here today if she had such an interest in the urgent handling of this law. Some government gentlemen who sometimes get lost in matters as exciting and shocking as organizing, for example, a congress on gender equality in computer algorithms. In the meantime - Mr Casado said this morning - we have to remind the government of the destruction of employment, of businesses and businesses closing down, of the loss of competitiveness and of the unfortunate situation of economic foresight, which I do not say, says the International Monetary Fund. As an example of this inefficient management I can tell you that during the first state of alarm in our country this government adopted a real decree to issue electronic certificates in a temporary way, which will be revoked at the end of exceptionality. It is a genuine nonsense, a chaos, which we in the People's Parliamentary Group have already tried to amend in this House. I will focus on an important aspect of this law that has already been commented on: the video identification systems for obtaining an electronic certificate in our country, since they are the ones that allow the initiation of any relationship in a digital way, avoiding the act of physical characterization, a key contribution of the People's Group to this law. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are playing here is the future of Spain in Europe, we are very late in implementing remote certificates. This Government should be aware that in the post-COVID scenario, from which we have not come out stronger - in fact, it is obvious that we have not come out - digitisation will be of even greater importance as a driving force for social transformation, as we will have to use it every day in our relations with the Administration and with the economic, health and administrative sectors. On that occasion, the People's Parliamentary Group tabled an amendment to amend Article 7.2 and include video identification without the need for a ministerial order, because we did not trust it, because we did not know its content, because we did not know its date of publication or its technical limitations in order to be able to implement it. We amended it for that reason: out of distrust of the government, because the ministry did not want to meet with the sector, because we lost parliamentary control. That is why the amendment was incorporated and why it received the support of most groups. From there, the Government obviously sprung to return to the original text, that is, this time already with meetings with the sector and with the elaboration of a consensus draft ministerial order. And it is under these conditions that we will support these amendments incorporated into the final text of this law. I conclude, Madam President, by thanking the work of the spokespersons, the parliamentary groups and the consensus in the committees to process this law, which responds to the need to overcome this serious crisis, based on the digital transformation of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedreño Molina. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marra Domínguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u103	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The draft law regulating certain aspects of electronic trust services adapting the national legal order to the Community regulation is not only necessary but, in the view of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is essential. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about strengthening legal certainty, giving certainty, which is fundamental to progress in the process of digitising our economy and society and, ultimately, for the benefit of all citizens. Allow me to explain why it is essential. First, this bill aims to contribute to a stable, predictable, integrated and clear regulatory framework, which is fundamental to progress in the digitalisation process, ensuring secure online services that are the day-to-day interactions of businesses, citizens and public administrations. The standard, as noted by the spokespersons, complements the European Union Regulation 910/2014 on electronic identification and electronic trust services in the broad sense and introduces a harmonic regulation of new qualified electronic trust services additional to the traditional electronic signature, such as the electronic seal of legal persons, the validation service of signatures and qualified stamps, the electronic time stamp, the certified electronic delivery or the service of issuing certificates of authentication of websites, which can be combined for the provision of complex and innovative services and which are commonly used in telematic relations of citizens, businesses and public administrations. Secondly, it is essential because this bill will contribute to the development of the single market of the European Union. The strength of the European Union lies, in my view, in its ability to establish a uniform, common and shared regulatory framework in all Member States, a regulatory framework which, if possible, is of greater relevance in this draft law by providing a common basis for secure electronic interactions and the conduct of secure cross-border procedures and by removing this electronic barrier which excluded citizens from the full enjoyment of the benefits of the internal market and thereby exchanging the effectiveness of online services, electronic business and electronic commerce of the European Union. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will support this bill. We understand that with the incorporation of the amendments tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Senate, some of them negotiated with other amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, issues that were introduced in Congress that generated serious legal uncertainty and hampered the functioning of the e-government have been corrected. The aim, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is to restore the wording of the original text of the bill as the Socialist Parliamentary Group first argued. I would like to highlight in particular two issues that have recovered. On the one hand, the amendment introduced in Article 6.1 (a) which returns to the original text, since, if the text were adopted with this amendment which was introduced in Congress, it would originate, as the Socialist Group has repeatedly pointed out, legal uncertainty and would break any principle of interoperability, and it should be borne in mind that interoperability is the capacity of the information systems and the procedures to which they support to share data and enable the exchange of information. On the other hand, this opinion includes the amendment of Article 7.2. The trusted electronic service providers themselves had conveyed their vision and asked us to recover the original text as it entered Congress. Ladies and gentlemen, socialist policies are synonymous with progress and modernization. For this reason, the commitment of the Ministry and this parliamentary group is unquestionable in terms of the implementation of remote identification systems, of applicants for qualified, rigorous and homologable certificates. That is why there is a ministerial order pending approval that has been drawn up with the proposal emanating from the working group in which service providers participate. Countries such as France, Germany and Italy have already developed specific and independent requirements for the remote identification of applicants for qualified certificates and this is precisely what the Ministry is working on, so that these identification methods are rigorous and homologable, similar to those already operating in other countries mentioned above. And they say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that correcting is wise. However, I am convinced that if this text that we are going to adopt today in this plenary had been agreed and agreed by putting the general interest of all citizens before partisan interests, today we would not be correcting the mistakes made and recovering the original text in this plenary. Therefore, instead of rectifying, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, let us dialogue, consensus, agree and always seek the welfare of the citizens. That is also being patriots and not attacking the institutions, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, thereby weakening our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, digitisation is an unstoppable process. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are well aware that the present and future of Spain is going through digital progress, which has become a key and fundamental factor for the sustained growth of the economy in the long term. It is therefore necessary that these new opportunities offered by digital progress be balanced with an adequate level of essential confidence and with essential guarantees of legal certainty. For this reason, the regulation that we are going to adopt today with this bill is a fundamental driver for digital progress. I conclude by defending this bill, as I said at the outset, which I believe is essential; it is essential to adapt our legal system to the regulatory framework of the European Union; it is essential to improve the legal security of sectors, businesses, public administrations and citizens; and it is crucial to continue to make Spain and Europe an area of full enjoyment of the benefits of the digital single market. We have a good bill. We in the Socialist Group are convinced of this. We are also convinced, even if we are late, that it has been thanks to the contributions made by the various parliamentary groups to recover the wording of the original text by incorporating compromise amendments. I am grateful for the dialogue, the spirit of dialogue and consensus on the part of the constituent parliamentary groups, which have contributed to enriching this text for the benefit of all citizens. On that path, ladies and gentlemen, you will always find the Socialist Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marra Dominguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions, with dossier numbers 110/26 and 110/28 to 110/40. As no group has been asked to speak on this item, the opinions will be put to the vote with the rest of the votes scheduled for today.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the agenda item on the opinion of the proposed reform of Organic Law 4/1982 of 9 June of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia, corresponding to dossier numbers 127/3 of the XII Legislature and 127/1 of the XII Legislature. Since there were no amendments for their defence before the plenary, we moved on to position-setting. Firstly, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u107	Thank you, Madam President. If you don't mind, I'll intervene briefly from the seat. We are glad, as it cannot be otherwise, that we have approved this amendment to the Statute of Murcia, which has to do with the end of the negotiations for Members of this Parliament. We regret that the amendment presented in the Citizens' Paper was not accepted, and that the only thing he intended to correct was an error in the original text, since, as the original text of the Statute of the Murcian House is coming, he also withdraws the parliamentary immunity of Members of Parliament. It seems to us that this is a mistake. We regret that the Socialist Party and We can in the speech have opposed the handling of this amendment, that all it wants is precisely that the protection that Members must have remains, since otherwise the democratic order of the House could be subverted. I think this is a mistake. We will keep this amendment in the Senate. We would like you to reflect on the Socialist Party and Mr de Podemos, because it seems to us that withdrawing parliamentary immunity from Members is an absolute uncertainty. I am convinced that you all agree with me, so I cannot understand that you are not able to correct this error. In short, we are glad that Murcia joins, together with the Community of Madrid, Andalusia and Cantabria, in the possibility of withdrawing the special outburst which Members have and which does not have the rest of the citizens. I want to tell you that in those places where Citizens rule, in those places where they can condition Governments, as in the cases mentioned above, Madrid, Andalusia and Murcia - and with our support in Cantabria too - the outbursts are eliminated. I would like one of your ladies and gentlemen to take this into consideration and it would be possible for us in our Congress of Deputies and in our Senate to remove the outburst as well. It is very good to vote in favour of this being eliminated in the autonomous parliaments, but here there is no work to contemplate it. If Citizens here is decisive at some point, do not doubt that the suffocation will be eliminated and we will not see cases as pathetic as those of Mr Rodríguez or Mr Iglesias having to resort to this House again to suffocate these Members so that they can go to their judicial proceedings. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u108	Thank you, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas. Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u109	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to send from here, in any case, a greeting to the authorities and representatives of the Government of the Murcia Region and to all those who participated in the processing and discussion of this reform proposal. Basically, I will reiterate the motivations that I have already put forward in the discussion of consideration because that proposal - I would like to comment on the representative of Citizens - comes from afar and as a result of an important debate in the community itself that, of course, I am convinced that it has taken into account the special considerations, situations and history that had taken place in the region of Murcia on cases of corruption and judicial proceedings. As I raised at the time, this is not a purely legal debate - although it obviously addresses very important aspects - but it is above all a debate of democratic quality in our institutions. The spread of corruption cases in Spain, closely associated with political parties and successive ones - especially in these regions - real estate and other bubbles, are a clear anomaly in our country. Hence, possibly, the prevention that parliamentarians themselves do in the Murcia Region, taking into account developments and all their development. The delay in judicial proceedings associated in this case with special treatment or privileges is what requires in our opinion - and that is why we will vote in favour - a legal standardisation of political representatives. Because all this together and associated, far from acting preventively, encourages impunity. Hence the importance of this reform. Corruption cannot be normalized on the basis of succession of cases. You have referred to the Community of Madrid - which must also have some value in setting it as an example in the debate we have today - but it is not possible because Punica, Lezo, Arena, espionage, ERES, Fabra, Auditorio, Palau, Bárcenas, Gürtel, etc., shows that we have to act decisively and clearly. Nor can it be legislated at the stroke of scandals of corruption, or patching or fixing at short notice, as the representatives of Transparency International put it. It must be addressed, indeed. You raised why we did not bring the elections to Congress. Yes, but conflicts of interest also need to be addressed, we also need to address revolving doors, also the protection of informants, also registration of lobbies and their role in a multitude of legislation; we are now seeing one, for example, in the climate change bill and with regard to certain approaches to diesel taxation. And we must also think of the beneficiaries and the corrupters, which is a very important part of transparency and reform. In any case, today, at the hands of the Region of Murcia, for me if you take an important step. I hope that these and other reforms will definitively eradicate the anomaly and gravity of corruption in our country in order to regain exemplaryness, which must be a sign of identity for our policies and institutions. For all these reasons and because it was a debate that took time and was very important in the region of Murcia itself, we are going to vote in favour, we are going to give our support and also congratulations on the initiative to the parliamentarians of the region of Murcia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u111	Thank you, President. I will be extraordinarily brief in my speech, because this is not the first time that we have discussed the title of reform of the Murcia Region in order to abolish the outbursts of Members, Councillors and also the regional president. This is a reform that was already admitted in September 2017 with the abstention of the People's Group, which would then, and in an undisguised manner, freeze its processing for a year and a half; which was re-admitted in September 2019, in the 2019 elections, but which the new call for elections in November again postponed. And now, on the third, it looks like she's losing. In just eight months since we admitted it again to this House the initiative has completed its parliamentary tour and, finally, the amendment of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia arrives at this plenary session. The Confederal Group of the United Nations We are going to support with its votes - as it cannot be otherwise - this statutory reform for the suppression of drilling in the Region of Murcia. We will support the reform, moreover, as it was approved in the Assembly of the Region of Murcia, because we respect the will and self-government of the regional assembly and the institutions of the Region of Murcia. We are convinced that the removal of the cuts can be a good vaccine against cases such as that of former regional president Pedro Antonio Sánchez, whose imputation in the Auditorio case is at the root of this reform. Therefore, with this reform we simply want to begin to close a black page in the history of the Murcia Region, the history of systematic corruption; a story that, in our opinion, can only be closed when Mr. Pedro Antonio Sánchez sits on the bench of the accused, which seems to be soon, at the beginning of 2021. I would also like to recall in this brief speech that the former President of the Republic of Murcia was the first to benefit from the shortening of the investigation periods provided for in the Criminal Procedure Act; an amendment approved by the Government of the People's Party in 2015. This reform - which this House recently repealed - allowed him to get rid of the Pasarelas case, and has also caused the cancellation of part of the investigation of the largest corruption case that has ever had the Murcia Region, which is the case of La Sal or the Desaladora case, in which, by the way, another former president of the People's Party, Ramon Luis Valcárcel, has also been accused of nothing more and nothing less than having prevarized 600 million euros. I believe that today, here, we will all agree that the institutions, those of this country and also those of my region, those of the Murcia Region, will only recover from their discredit when the impotence with which certain political and economic elites are operating ends. That is why I believe it is good news today that the parties have agreed to eliminate privileges and to abolish the outbursts. Now, I can't help but wonder something about this, because those who supported the reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act, which has brought so much impunity to the Murcia Region, wanted the best for the Murcia Region? They wanted the best for justice? Those who want to equate corrupt plots, such as the one I have said of the 600 million euros in the Region of Murcia, those who want to equate these plots with accusations based on rumors and archived over and over again by the courts, want the best for justice? [[Applauds]] Those who block the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary with an anti-democratic veto to my political formation want the best for justice? Let me doubt it. In any case, we are here today demonstrating that the agreement is possible, that without vetoes we can take steps together to improve our policy and improve our justice. And I believe that if the political parties of the regional assembly have been able to agree to bring this reform of the status of autonomy here, and if we are also going to stage this agreement between state groups today, there is no reason why these agreements cannot be extended further. That is why it is only up to us to congratulate the people who are dying for this step and to hope that this reform will inspire much more in the same direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u112	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez Serna. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Robles López has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u113	President, ladies and gentlemen, on this matter concerning the partial reform of the Statute of Autonomy of Murcia, my political group is going to abstain. The reasons that lead us to take this decision cannot be dissociated from the extremely serious situation in which our nation finds itself. If this Government did not use the 'Official Gazette of the State' to proclaim ideological laws such as the Historical Memory Act and its associated decrees, in which by legislative means they become, by the act and grace of the sectarianism of the Government, crimes which are nothing but expressions of non-conformity with the dominant ideology; if this Government did not attack the independence of the judiciary by controlling the prosecution or intend to do the same with the General Council of the Judiciary; if, in short, the legislative task of this Government did not have as its purpose to pursue those who disagree with its ideology, our position would be absolutely favourable to this initiative of the regional assembly, because VOX is against any privilege that places the political class above citizenship. [[Applauds]] But it's not like that. The condition is not fulfilled, and the action of this Government follows with firm step the path that leads Spain towards a tyranny where any dissent with dogmas progress runs the risk of being regarded as a hate crime. Any discrepancy with the unilateral and biased vision of the history of Spain imposed by the Government, any opposition to the attack on the principle of isology and equality before the law of men and women, which implies the Law on Gender Violence, and any questioning of absurd and unscientific and anthropological ideologies, such as the gender laws that you want to bring into the soup, could be the subject of police persecution and prosecution. For this reason, despite our determined ambition to end the prebends and privileges of the political class, we cannot vote in favour of a tremendously dangerous reform for those who exercise our right to resist the authoritarianism of the Government. [[Applauds]] Nor can we forget that this reform of the Statute of Autonomy of Murcia was not born of a genuine interest or a fall of the horse of the popular leaders of my province, leaders immersed in cases of abundant corruption that motivated the cessation of the former president of the regional government. In view of the prospect of an already evident electoral retreat, the PP, which lost the absolute majority, now appears to be a defender of transparency and political cleansing. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, like the false repentants, instead of taking on the consequences of their actions, try to overwhelm their corruption with this trap. It hasn't served them much, and the advance of my party in Murcia is now unstoppable. Know that you are going to pass an infamous reform of the statute, turning your back on Murcia's main political party, according to the outcome of the November elections. [[Applauds]] For many partial or global reforms of the statute, for many limitations of mandates, for many gestures towards the gallery, neither we nor the noble people of Murcia will forget the many betrayals that consensus has made us progress. The betrayal of the PSOE which, following the wake of the Catalan separatists, repealed the transfer of the Ebro. The criminalization of our farmers made by groups related to the United Nations We can, applauded and encouraged with subsidies by the People's Party, to evade political responsibilities in its disastrous management of the Sea Minor. The attacks by the Minister of the Environment. The underfunding of the community resulting from a law passed by the PP of Aznar, followed by the PSOE of Zapatero, and never amended, as almost nothing, by the PP of Rajoy. [[Applauds]] The harassment and extractive abuse of our SMEs and self-governing by the national and regional governments in order to maintain inefficient and corrupt institutions. Without forgetting the velocities and changes of criteria of Citizens, who came to regenerate political life and has lacked time, once he has touched carpet, to ask that their public offices in Murcia cannot be imputed. [[Applauds]] You, gentlemen of the PP, have created a customer network in Murcia in the image and likeness of which the PSOE created at the time, and, as happened to the PSOE, you have also lost the favor of the people. Few matters show so clearly the connivance of all parties, except VOX, as this reform of the Statute of Autonomy of Murcia; the gender ideology, the historical memory camouflaged as democratic, and the silence on the necessary national vertebration that would bring the Defensted National Hydrological Plan add to the rest of the mantras and dogmas of globalism. Murcia, a European region, they say, leaping above Spain and the patriotism of the Batians. This reform takes another step in the wrong direction. It is to be hoped that you will follow in this direction, asking for the officiality, the co-officiality of the panocho, and change the label of regional assembly to that of the Juntaera, imitating the linguistic dislates of other Spanish regions that have turned our cultural diversity into an instrument to divide the Spaniards and Spain. [[applause]] And while all the Catalan capitals connect with high-speed trains, in Murcia you are discussing whether or not to bury the tracks, or leave the northwest region incommunicado by train, closing the centenary station of Calasparra, which joined this region with Madrid, or create new centralisms that harm Cartagena and the Mar Menor, or the valley of Guadalentín, devastated by recurrent floods. You, gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, set aside the real problems of the Batians to devote yourselves to reforming statutes, in conjunction with Podemos and PSOE, which place Murcia within the framework of this project of breaking national unity, through the facts, and in its legislative reflection, turning its back on the patriotism of the Batians. [[Applauds]] In this reform of the statute they have agreed to turn Murcia into a piece more of a new and intelligible plurinational reality, of asymmetric federalism, where the richest regions have better funding, better public services, while the poorest and most loyal regions receive the crumbs of the separatist feast. [[Applauds]] By the way, while you ban meetings of more than thirty people in Murcia, Mr López Miras and Mr Teodoro García Aegean - who is not here, will have something to do - go to the feast of Pedro J., where there are more than eighty guests. In Murcia you can't; here, apparently, yes. Our dear colleague Lourdes Méndez, after the triumph of VOX in Murcia, expressed his satisfaction that Murcia had guided the rest of the Spanish provinces towards the achievement of unity and equality for all Spaniards, and that we would abandon the defence of the ethical principle of safeguarding life in the face of the policies of death promoted by this government. When I was a zagal, Murcia's cars carried a sticker on their back moon where one could read: to be a mortian an honor, to be a Spanish pride. I assure you, ladies and gentlemen of the progress of consensus, that VOX will never consent to the fact that neither the honor of being a Batian nor the pride of being a Spaniard will become relics of the past. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u114	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Borrego Cortés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u115	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform proposal we are discussing has a partial scope of the statute, as has been said before. My vote and that of my group will be in favour. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u116	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u117	But I didn't quite understand Podemos' vote; I didn't understand it. His words and facts contradict each other. If it weren't for the fact that your Members in this House are out of business, they'd be in court. Two days ago the National Court - I want to point it out after the statements I have heard - confirmed once again the third file of the case of Pedro Antonio Sánchez, for which he had to resign. The double measuring rod of Podemos is incredible. We only have one, only one: the presumption of innocence. I continue, Madam President. We would have preferred that this reform of the statute, which we amended today, should have a global character, that there would be no autonomous deputies in Spain who were out of business and others would not. We would also have preferred this reform to be incorporated into the overall reform of the statute, which we will be discussing in this House in a few months' time. The Commission's opinion, as has been said, has adopted without change the text of the Murcia Region Assembly, which abolishes the prerogative of statutory forbearance and immunity. It was explained in the preamble that justified the reform that we were going to repeal the statutory ban, not so the immunity, both for Members of Parliament and for members of the Government. This issue is not addressed in the preamble, because it was introduced later. Why? For a simple theme of who is more and who is less. The drills have an unequivocally functional purpose. They are not in any way a personal privilege, because parliamentary prerogatives that are not privileges contemplated in the Constitution, such as inviolability, immunity or severance, protect the deputy. What does immunity protect? It protects the personal freedom of the people's representatives against arrests and judicial proceedings, preventing political manipulation from preventing the parliamentarian from attending the meetings of the Chambers and, as a result, unduly altering its composition and functioning in Spain. As I said, drilling is a prerogative, not a privilege. There are currently more than 280,000 people in Spain. Of these, 0.7 % are political. The Constitutional Court clearly states that we are before functional, non-personal or arbitrary prerogatives. He had previously pointed out the issue of immunity, of which the spokesman for Citizens has also spoken. It was discussed and should have been addressed in a simultaneous and coordinated manner. We will now have a statute of autonomy that has repealed immunity and the rest of the statutes of autonomy not. We are violating the principle of equality. This issue was addressed with an amendment that we intend to re-discuss in the Senate. The People's Party included in its electoral programme the reduction in the number of elections, which must be dealt with rigorously throughout the national territory, and which must be carried out consistently throughout the legal system, as well as adequately protecting the exercise and freedom of public office. No isolated measures should be taken. Let us be rigorous and not turn what must be a serious change into a product of political propaganda. This amendment to the Autonomy Statute of the Region of Murcia should be understood as the preamble to a comprehensive reform text, as was said at the beginning, a text that integrates cohesion, strength and regional identity, and which responds to what society currently demands. The Murcia Region accounts for just over 3.5% of our gross domestic product and of the Spanish population, and it faces very important social and economic challenges, for which it needs a statutory regulatory framework that allows us to work in a useful way in the service of our land and of the citizens. From the Region of Murcia we propose a new statute, which is born with the firm will to work with loyalty with the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain, being fully loyal to the Spanish Constitution, and seeking to contribute to making Spain stronger and with greater opportunities, but, of course, without wanting to be more than anyone else. We do not want to have less instruments than anyone else, less instruments than the rest to work well for our land. For this reason, the text reflects the need to arbitrate urgent measures to alleviate the historical funding gap, recognize our underfunding, quantify it and enable measures to compensate us. It must also assume new competences, such as those of coasts, to make the region more competitive and easier to manage our municipalities, and leaving the door open to assume the long-awaited competences of justice. These are some of the aspects that are reflected in the 99 articles and in the different provisions of the statute of autonomy, a text that is the result of consensus and that, once all legislative procedures have been overcome and by agreement of all, it must be endorsed by all the Batians. The region needs a new status of autonomy, learning from the experience of four decades, enabling it to have a legal framework that facilitates having instruments to guarantee economic and social development, provide opportunities for all people, protect our environment, make growth sustainable and improve social and territorial stability and, of course, defend our water and our Sea Minor. The citizens of the region feel part of a great country, Spain, and at the same time know that their greatest contribution is to make their region bigger. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs Borrego Cortés. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sánchez Jódar has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u119	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me that the first item on the agenda of the first plenary session of this Parliament is devoted to the region of Murcia. And no, I'm not wrong: this is how my first intervention began on the first item on the agenda of the XIII Legislature, because the proposal to reform Organic Law 4/1982, of 9 June, of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia, has already been very manipulated. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you say that you are against any privilege that separates public institutions from citizens, but you say it with your mouth and with the facts do exactly the opposite. In addition, they disagree with what they have done on other occasions and on other occasions, because - look at you - the same VOX parliamentarians in this House, in this plenary and in this rostrum, when the debate on the reform of the Autonomous Statute of the Region of Murcia took place in the previous parliamentary term, they voted on it and approved it. So, were they then betraying the bats and now they're not, or now they are and then they're not? [[Applauds]] Explain. For the same reason, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we do not believe that you are creating the arguments with which you have come here today to explain your abstention from this reform. We do not believe them, ladies and gentlemen, nor do we believe the theatre and the role that you are assuming of opposition to the People's Party, since as much as you are now in pain - and we understand it - you are and will always be in Madrid, Andalusia and the Region of Murcia the eternal subjectacolas of the People's Party, which never gets caught. That's what you're working on, and that's what you're proving to be. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, they are doomed to be together. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u120	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u121	However, the question is whether such a prerogative is necessary in our day, since when a prerogative is not necessary, it either ceases to be, or becomes a privilege. The answer is that, even if the drilling made sense at some point, it no longer has it unlimited in our day, as it is currently regulated. The special forum is not justified, because it is not necessary to ensure the proper performance of the public functions of the strikers. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, because we have a mature, consolidated democracy, where the separation of powers is respected and, therefore, justice is independent. That is why the judicial bodies should be renewed in accordance with our Constitution, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the paralysis of justice cannot be a political ram used as a party. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Murcia Assembly pushed for the elimination of the outbursts of Members, Members and members of the Governing Council, first in November 2015; then it was rejected with votes against the People's Party. Subsequently, it was resubmitted in April 2017, and was already unanimously approved at the regional assembly. Three legislatures and five years have passed since then. In the XII Legislature, September 2017, its processing was approved, by the way, with the abstention of the People's Party in this House, and during that legislature the mixed, popular and citizen parliamentary groups were paralysing the processing during the period of amendments, calling for postponements up to eight, ten and thirteen times respectively, extensions that the Bureau, then with the majority of the People's Party and citizens, approved, thus intentionally delaying the processing of points 25 and 33 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia. In the XIII Legislature, already with a progressive majority, it is again discussed, approved, but the Legislature declines and does not continue. Ladies and gentlemen, XIV Legislature, here we are. Today is the fourth time that this partial reform has been debated at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, and this time, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no parliamentary filibusterism that is worth it; this time, ladies and gentlemen, this reform is coming to pass, and so it will be in this legislature and with this government. Today the Region of Murcia will be a little better, and today as a bat and political in a timely way I can reach my land with the satisfaction of duty well done, well fulfilled. Today we are closer to telling the citizens, the citizens of Murcia, that we can agree, that we can be more useful, and today I am proud to belong to a party that remembers and that brings institutions closer to people, giving example, being where we want to be. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u122	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. No-law propositions. No law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the easing of public-guaranteed loans of the ICO COVID-19 liquidity line. The vote was taken on the amendment tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 91 plus 257 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 24 plus 129 telematics votes, 153; against, 67 plus 97 telematics votes, 164; abstentions, 31 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u124	It's rejected. - PROPOSAL NOT FOR THE LAW OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON GUARANTEEING THE PROTECTION, INCLUSION AND APPROPRIATE ATTENTION OF UNACCOMPANIED MIGRANT LEGISLATIVES. [[File number 162/000133]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u125	No bill by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on ensuring the protection, inclusion and adequate care of unaccompanied migrant minors and minors. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 91 plus 257 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 67 plus 136 telematics votes, 203; against, 53 telematics votes; abstentions, 24 plus 68 telematics votes, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u126	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u127	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the measures that the Government is taking or intends to take to try to stop the continuing fall of population in Spain and to avoid the serious problem of territorial depopulation, as well as to correct the social and economic inequalities in its rural areas. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 92 plus 257 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 25 plus 129 telematics votes, 154; against, 67 plus 102 telematics votes, 169; abstentions, 26 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u128	It's rejected. - Motion for an urgent interpellation of the Joint Parliamentary Group on the solutions that the Government is planning to bring to ensure the supply of water to the cities around the Bay of Santander [[LORD MAZÓN RAMOS]] [[SANTANDER, SANTA CRUZ DE BEZANA, CAMARGO AND ASTILLERO]] [[File number 173/000036]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u129	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, on the solutions that the Government intends to provide to guarantee the water supply to the municipalities around Santander Bay: Santander, Santa Cruz de Bezana, Camargo and Astillero. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 92 plus 257 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 91 plus 225 telematics votes, 316; against, 1 plus 10 telematics votes, 11; abstentions, 22 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u130	It's approved. - Motion for an urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group at the meeting, for the Government to explain the fiscal measures it is taking to counter the increase in announced revenue. [[File number 173/000037]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u131	Motion resulting from urgent questioning by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to explain the fiscal measures it is tackling to deal with the sharp increase in spending announced. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 92 plus 257 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 25 plus 127 telematics votes, 152; against, 67 plus 129 telematics votes, 196; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u132	Consequently, the motion resulting in urgent inquiry is rejected. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO GUARANTEE THE COMPLIANCE OF THE PRINCIPLES OF NEUtralITY AND INSTITUTIONAL IMPAIRITY OF THE UNIVERSITIES IN CATALUña. [[File number 173/000038]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u133	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government intends to take to ensure compliance with the principles of neutrality and institutional impartiality of universities in Catalonia. The vote was taken on the amendment tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 92 plus 257 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 25 plus 128 telematics votes, 153; against, 67 plus 128 telematics votes, 195; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u134	Consequently, the motion resulting in urgent inquiry is rejected. ACTS RELATING TO THE STATES OF ALARM, EXCEPTION AND SITE. [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, - APPLICATION FOR AUTHORIZATION OF THE PROGRESS OF THE STATE OF ALARMA DECLARED BY THE REAL DECRETO 926/2020 OF 25 OCTOBER, DECLARING THE STATE OF ALARMA TO CONTAIN THE PROPAGATION OF INFECTIONS CAUSATED BY SARS-CoV-2. [[File number 92/000003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u135	Request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 926/2020 of 25 October, declaring the state of alarm to contain the spread of infections caused by SARS-CoV-2. In the terms resulting from the incorporation of the proposals of the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 92 plus 254 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 67 plus 127 telematics votes, 194; against, 53 telematics votes; abstentions, 25 plus 74 telematics votes, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u136	Accordingly, the extension of the state of alarm to be published in the 'Official State Gazette' is authorised. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u137	Senate amendments. Draft law regulating certain aspects of trusted electronic services. En bloc vote on the Senate amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 92 plus 255 telematics votes, 347; 92 plus 227 telematics votes, 319; against 9 telematics votes; abstentions, 19 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u138	The amendments were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u139	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Joint vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 92 plus 255 telematics votes, 347; 84 plus 204 telematics votes, 288; abstentions, 8 plus 51 telematics votes, 59.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u140	The opinions were therefore adopted. - DECISION CONCERNING THE NEW AGREEMENTS FOR THE OBSERVATION OF LENDING FROM THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND [[NAB]] [[IMF]] [[File number 110/000040]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u141	Opinion on the decision on new arrangements for obtaining loans from the International Monetary Fund [[NAB]] [[IMF]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 92 plus 255 telematics votes, 347; 92 plus 175 telematics votes, 267; 53 telematics votes, abstentions, 27 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u142	The opinion was therefore adopted. - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND ON PARTICIPATION IN CERTAIN ELECTIONS OF NATIONALS OF ANY COUNTRY RESIDENT IN THE TERRITORY OF THE OTHER, DONE IN MADRID ON 21 JANUARY 2019. [[File number 110/000026]] - ACTS, RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ADOPTED 'AD REFERENDUM' ON 7 SEPTEMBER 2018 DURING THE II EXTRAORDINARY MEETING OF THE UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION [[UPU]] [[File number 110/000028]] - AGREEMENT ON AIR TRANSPORT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF RUANDA, DONE IN NAIROBI ON 10 DECEMBER 2018. [[File number 110/000029]] - DECLARATION, ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF THE POSTAL UNION OF THE AMERICAS, SPAIN AND PORTUGAL, ADOPTED 'AD REFERENDUM' IN MONTEVIDE ON 22 NOVEMBER 2017 DURING THE XXIII ORDINARY MEETING OF THE POSTAL UNION OF THE AMERICAS, SPAIN AND PORTUGAL. [[UPAEP]] [[File number 110/000030]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW ZEALAND ON THE PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE IN MADRID ON 16 DECEMBER 2019. [[File number 110/000031]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM ON MUTUAL EXCHANGE AND PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE IN MADRID ON 27 MARCH 2019. [[File number 110/000033]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR THE EXCHANGE AND RECIPROCAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION IN THE FIELD OF DEFENCE, DONE IN MADRID ON 28 FEBRUARY 2019. [[File number 110/000034]] - FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN, THE INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK AND THE INTER-AMERICAN CORPORATION OF INVESTMENTS, DONE IN GOOD AREAS ON 30 NOVEMBER 2018. [[File number 110/000035]] - CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND JAPAN TO ELIMINATE DOUBLE IMPOSEMENT IN RELATION TO TAXES ON INCOME AND PREVENTION OF TAX EXEMPTION AND EVALUATION AND THEIR PROTOCOL, DONE IN MADRID ON 16 OCTOBER 2018. [[File number 110/000036]] - CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE ECUADOR ON POLITICAL COOPERATION FOR SECURITY AND FIGHT AGAINST TRANSNATIONAL ORGANISED Crime, DONE IN MADRID ON 26 JULY 2018. [[File number 110/000039]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u143	Joint vote on the rest of the opinions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 92 to 254 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 92 to 227 in favour, 319 in favour, 27 in favour, 27 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u144	The opinions were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u145	Opinions of the Committees on legislative initiatives. Proposal for the reform of Organic Law 4/1982 of 9 June of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 92 plus 250 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 92 plus 177 telematics votes, 269; abstentions, 73 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u146	The opinion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u147	Overall vote on the proposal to reform Organic Law 4/1982 of 9 June of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia, for having the same organic character. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 92 plus 250 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 92 plus 177 telematics votes, 269; abstentions, 73 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-29-CD201029.u148	Therefore, the proposal for the reform of Organic Law 4/1982 of 9 June of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia is approved. Congratulations to the bats. The meeting rose. It was three and forty minutes in the afternoon.
