ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point concerning opinions of committees on legislative initiatives, and in particular on the draft organic law amending the Organic Law 2/2006 of 3 May on Education. To defend the amendments to this legislative initiative, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Guitarte Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are those who think that school is a reflection of society. However, others think that the school should change this society, that students should get better prepared individually and collectively from the schools. Encouraged by these schools, such as those proposed by César Bona, we began the work of the law of education with enthusiasm, knowing the difficulty, but thinking that this time it would be possible. Today, seeing that the historical polarization of debates on education persist, that for two generations the impossibility of understanding remains, that the party agendas prevail, that the languages separate rather than unite, that the fallacious arguments raise social boundaries, that we do not recognize ourselves as we are, we are deeply discouraged. Despite the agreement contained in article 27 of the Constitution, every seven years in Spain an organic law on education is passed, which goes on inexorably through the Constitutional Court. It contrasts with the model of countries with educational success, such as Finland, which base their educational policy on a far-reaching social and legislative pact and also on a curriculum agency such as the one we have proposed in our amendments. We sincerely appreciate the sensitivity of the Committee on Education in collecting many of our proposals for rural school, but we will abstain in this vote because we are ambitious, and will continue to work towards, a far-reaching pact in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u3	Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u4	Good morning. In this law there are several conflicting matters, but the biggest glue is the lack of a minimum consensus that the PRC has always demanded, especially in concerted education, something so rooted in Spanish society that it could have the agreement of most parties and citizens, including those of the Socialist Party itself. Furthermore, it introduces an unnecessary conflict with the amendment of the language, because, if there is a rule in which the right and duty to know the Spanishman, as provided for in the Constitution, is to be implemented, it is the law of education. This will remain unfulfilled, as is now the case in Catalonia, where the rights of many Catalans are not respected. And if a person does not understand one another naturally in his or her language, he or she will never feel brother, countryman or whatever we want to call him or her. One more step towards independence, but the most serious thing is that it is being done to provoke a rejection and in some cases a hatred towards the Spanish which is a price that no one in good faith should be willing to pay. We all know the difference between learning a language, a language or whatever your native language is. The Spanish matter was very well in the bill. In short, if the rights set forth in the Constitution are to be effective, they must be developed in the laws, as We can constantly remember.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u6	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The law we are debating today is a mixture of sectarianism and attack on freedom. It impoverishes our education by devaluing the titles by allowing us to pass with suspense. And, of course, it's a payment to radicalism. To this extent, it is a payment to radicalism that eliminates Spanish as the vehicle language of education. That is to assume the nationalist discourse of languages, which does not try to encourage them, but directly to impose them, because it understands them as part of a national construction. And today there will be many Spaniards, many families in our country whose children will not be able to study in Spanish. And it is not because of nationalism, but because of the Socialist Party, which has no more country view than that of paying the toll that is necessary to stay in the blue bank. [[Applauds]] But the most serious thing is the attack on freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, that in the 21st century we must continue to defend our right to be free says a lot about the country we are building. An educational model is imposed here. That is why it is against the concerted, against the differentiated and against the special, because freedom has been replaced by the imposition and there is no other model than that ideology that the Government wants to impose on us. In addition, we are forced without dialogue, on a roll, because we have been prevented from listening in this House to the education sector at a time when the greatest attack on education in the entire democratic history of this country is being perpetrated. And then they'll come to give us lessons in consensus and dialogue. And it is that this vision of education has already been lost as an element of future and progress and directly thought of education as a weapon to ideologize society. That's what this law is about, and that's why we don't agree with it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u7	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u8	Thank you, Madam President. The Canary Coalition was very hopeful when, in its time with the former socialist government, Mr Gabilondo presented a project: education has to be a project of a whole society and to add wills. At that time, also for political reasons, it did not come out, and we hoped that this bill would add an educational project for the next generations. However, in the end, ideology, temporality and, above all, headless, trying to confuse private education with the concerted one and talk about special education without knowing the financial record that must be had, when even now with the COVID you do not have the means and resources. I have a disabled niece who's in a special education school. There are children for whom advancement is to be able to move a finger, there are children for whom advancement is social skills and in this type of special education model that we are talking about they would not have the chance to progress in their individual needs. We believe it would have been good for teachers, trade unions, professionals, people who care for children with special education needs to come to this Congress. I don't know why that communication was stolen in this Congress. Of course, we - unfortunately, because we would have liked to - are not going to support a bill that has the days counted according to the governments and political alliances of this country. It is not education or the project that Spain needs. Education has to be a project of the whole of society and of everyone, because ideology has to be reduced, it has to be a country project: public education, concerted education, special education and, above all, it has to be endowed with economic resources so that it can be implemented. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u10	Thank you, President. In the very short time we have to position ourselves I will say that we are not going to support this law because it does not mean the necessary model change in the following aspects. Firstly, in favour of public school. We understand that a law that was truly progressive would be a priority for moving towards a single public education network. Then certain parties would have reason to oppose it, but it is not such a threat to the party. Practically a single public network is what Finland has, where only 3% of its pupils go to private concerted centres. Since it is pointed out both to this country as a reference in education, it is also due to the importance of the public sector in it. Secondly, this law does not mean the necessary change of model in favour of a more democratic government of the centres. In this sense, the law goes in the same direction as the Catalan education law. Catalonia is often a pioneer in many things, but not always for good reasons. Giving even more power to the directors of the centers does not have to be a model to follow. Thirdly, it is necessary to change the model, and neither does the law, towards a single body of teachers: equal work, equal pay, and in favour of secularism, since religion will continue to be imparted. Finally, it is not what is said to be about linguistic immersion either. This law does not shield linguistic immersion. And yet, linguistic immersion is the only model that guarantees the learning of minority languages such as Catalan. Linguistic immersion is not a privilege of Catalan, but precisely one of the only effective tools to be able to resist the privileges of Spanish in all the other areas in which the language is used, in the media, in the administrations, etc. Therefore, the necessary shielding of immersion is the only guarantee of the future for Catalan, but, unfortunately, this law does not shield linguistic immersion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u11	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u12	Thank you, President. Egun where you're going. Good morning, everyone. After a month and a half of marathon sessions and hard work, we find ourselves before this plenary session to give our vote in the handling of this bill. Since it was introduced before the summer we understand that it was not the law that we would have proposed for Hego Euskal Herria, not even a law that, despite being made from a state approach, respected the national reality of the State in which we are immersed. We have repeated on countless occasions that the current model and its respective educational systems do not serve to respond to the different needs that arise in the societies of the twenty-first century, and less so with the situation created by COVID. Our group, accepting the majority feeling of our educational communities, strongly defends education as a basic cohesive element, a backbone of society and a health mirror. That is why it has been confirmed that this bill that was submitted to us a few months ago is not the instrument we need. In the course of several sessions of the Commission, we have made a firm defense of the exclusive competences in education that belong to the institutions of Navarra, Bizkaia, Araba and Gipuzkoa and, where appropriate, to the other nations that we live with in the State. This has been the spirit of most of the amendments that we have tabled and that we are still alive today. We do not share the view that the State Government should set the basics of minimum education, even if it is suggested that the proportion should be reduced, that is, that the Government should significantly mark the set of objectives, competences, teaching methods and evaluation criteria for our educational systems. We do not want to be mere managers of what we are allowed. Euskal Herria Bildu believes that the law we are working on is very far from our goals, it is not the instrument that is needed for change. The objective of Lomloe is clear: to replace the current educational law, Lomce, which is unfair, segregating in terms of socio-economic aspects and in some cases even by sex, sexist, which gives oxygen to private education, and this objective is shared by the independent left, but not at the expense of losing what corresponds to our educational systems in our territories. Today we continue to keep alive those amendments relating to the competition field as an important axis and at the same time we will keep those which would entail enrichment by providing a feminist, co-educating, diverse, inclusive and secular vision. We recognize that steps have been taken, that progress has been made in both pedagogical and competitive aspects, but we continue to think that this law is short in relation to our demands. We are in favour - as we have shown with our amendments, in particular with 147 - of an educational model based on linguistic immersion that educates on the basis of the official languages of each territory: Basque, Galician, Catalan; non-co-officials, as is repeated continuously in the paper. We advocate a co-educational project, with feminist pedagogies, and this has been reflected in our amendments. We understand that public institutions must develop co-education, as well as concerted ones, which jointly educate boys and girls. We consider it incompatible with our approach to enable the conclusion or agreement with centres which do not have co-education as their principle. In line with a non-confessional State, we believe that the essential secular character that must be reversed by the school as a public institution should be guaranteed, leaving the confessional religion outside the educational system, that is, outside the curriculum and the school environment. We advocate a cohesive, equitable, free, universal educational project that educates a critical, empowered and happy student. In line with this line, we have tabled amendments that reflected the principle of educational inclusion and non-segregation of all students, diverse students and taken into account for their value within that great diversity. We recognize that more resources are needed to collect and meet students with special educational needs that are socio-economically disadvantaged. We argue that the network of public centres must ensure the right to education of the entire student, with the temporary horizon that private centres concluded, on a negotiated or voluntary basis, should be integrated into the network of ownership and public management. We defend an educational model that puts the needs of students and the entire educational community at the centre and advances in the rights that nations have. It is necessary to listen to the whole educational community, being the student one of the key pieces of such scaffolding. That is why our amendments also take into account the student, and as an example is number 119, which follows that line. We have encountered difficulties, we do not deny it, and we also recognize that we have met among different political forces. There have been encounters with some leftist political forces, some sovereignists and others not. Today is the day when we affirm that it is necessary to leave behind a retrograde law, a law like the Lomce, and take bolder and bolder steps than those who present us this Lomloe presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u14	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone's on. Today the Wert Law comes to an end. Since the birth of the Lomce, we have wished for its death and we have committed ourselves to it, and so we have included in our electoral programme: replacing the Lomce, which was a law that was answered and not accepted in the Basque Country and generated many inconveniences, although they were tried to dodge, to some extent thanks to the Heziberri framework, although it has not always been possible, and I put to them, for example, the case of the scholarship system, which is decisive for us, which has suffered a tremendous warp, but which is now resolved thanks to the amendments of our parliamentary group. Neither Lomloe nor any Spanish education law is our law. That of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Group is the law of Basque education that will soon be passed in the Basque Parliament. Like many other generalist laws passed in these Chambers, this is a law with vice of invasion. And our task throughout the negotiating process has been to demand the express recognition that it is the autonomous communities that are responsible for developing competences in the field of education, as well as the special recognition of Basque singularity, respect for the uniqueness deriving from the historical rights of historical territories, as is reflected in the text of this law, while ensuring that the maximum margin of manoeuvre remains in order to be able to define what is important to us, our own system of Basque education. Our parliamentary group voted in favour of the LOE and against the Lomce. Therefore, by voting in favour of Lomloe, what we do is be consistent with the votes we have taken at other times. I will briefly point out some of the improvements in the Lomloe that lead us to support it. In the field of competition, the strengthening of own languages in the text of the draft. In terms of curriculum minimums, 50%. We've never achieved this before. Is that a little bit? Yeah. Do we want more? Yeah. But it's a breakthrough and we have to take advantage of everything that's a breakthrough. In the area of equity and inclusive capacity of the system, scholarships to compensate for inequalities, with express admission of the capacity of the autonomous communities to have our own scholarship system. This is crucial if we are to make progress in social cohesion. Curricular diversification is recovered, the basic FP leads to the title of ESO and reinforces a professional training that seeks excellence and will find it attached to the productive field, to the company. In the area of evaluation, thanks to our amendments, the involvement of the external evaluation departments, agencies and institutions has also been incorporated, a great step forward which has also been very difficult for us to make. Our parliamentary group wants to stop and talk about the concerted action. The Basque educational system is based on a solid bicephalic basis: the public and concerted network, which are equally demanded by our families, and, in view of this certainty, the defense of both is clear from the PNV. We have developed a model of success, probably far from the model that could have been developed elsewhere; a model of coexistence of the public network with the concerted one. We demand here the work they have done to get to where we are, developing educational projects of excellence. The Ikastolas, concerted centres, ladies and gentlemen, have been and continue to be key to the recovery of the euskera in our country. Kristau Eskola and diocesan centers have been and continue to be key to making interesting projects, in many cases with complex students. We need them and we will continue to have them, because the commitment of the Basque Nationalist Party where we govern is clear and this law allows us to develop the coexistence of both. They all deserve to take place in our space and their relevant role deserves their recognition and to continue with them. We have tabled an amendment, which ended in a compromise with Junts per Catalunya, and although I am grateful for the support that other parliamentary groups have given to this amendment, it has finally not been able to move forward. Lomloe is not our law, but it goes beyond the limits of Lomce and allows us to develop more, to have a broader framework to be able to develop our own Basque educational system, which is our goal. You know as well as I do that the balance of forces here in Madrid makes it very difficult to move forward, that every idea, every word, every step costs a lot, you have to fight a lot, and for us it is a difficult task, but when we make progress, we take advantage of the opportunity. With logical doubts about a state-wide education law, this new framework facilitates what we want, so that the framework is broader. We are aware that we have an education system that is privileged, which is already committed to social cohesion, which is committed to child education - we have more than 90% of the population of two years of schooling - is an inclusive model, we have thousands of boys and girls served in our network of educational system centers. We bet on bilingualism, we bet on digitization, we bet on co-education, for all that has now been included in the text of the bill. That is why we have voted against planning from Madrid what we are already working successfully on. We don't want to be planned because we're already doing it, not because we're against it. What we are going to do is to collect in our own model of law all this that I am commenting on to improve and strengthen the competences of our Basque educational system. I would like to say one thing to the large parliamentary groups of this Congress, to you and to you. [[Notes to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] Neither dust nor mud makes any strong mortar to build anything solid that has a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u16	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, progress since Citizens will vote not with both hands, so, to this law, because it is a mud, because its processing has been inappropriate and of dubious democratic guarantee, because it involves the demolition of the education system, because it involves a dangerous drop in level and because it entails the coercion of fundamental rights of all Spaniards. [[making the gesture of inserting a ballot into a hurrah]] The Lomloe is a patch, it is a patch of the Lomce and the LOE, but with the technique of encrusted; in the end there is a pastiche left, you can read it. This Government has neither been willing nor able to develop a genuine educational proposal. This rule has been dealt with from the beginning with a malicious arbitrariness, I have denounced it since the first day; recording the draft two legislatures ago, without having the report of the Council of State; it has been dictated by a school council and a sectoral conference that are not the current ones; there are advisers, like Mr. Imbroda, who has not seen this law, has not worked with this law. In addition, the processing has been done in the midst of the pandemic, when not even the return to school had yet been resolved, and so I told the minister. They have opened the deadline for opening the partial amendments in the middle of the second wave, but it is also that - as other speakers have already said - we have had to work with brutal pressure, behind closed doors, without light and stenographers, negotiating almost five hundred amendments a week that we have not been able to debate, only to vote. This smells like processing vice. But the most serious thing is that you have done it with care, saying that you were in a hurry because you had to remove a law that had no consensus. Well, look, this law has a consensus, it's managed to piss everyone off, but what it doesn't have are democratic guarantees. They can't have put more trophies in so little text, they can't put more trophies in so little text. Apart from being more ideological than electoral propaganda, Lomloe is - as has already been said here - an attack on the freedom of choice of families, an attempt to deceive our European partners, the demolition of the competition agreement in education and a marketing zafio with linguistic and fundamental rights by a handful of votes. And I'm going to go in parts. The freedom of choice of the parents of the concerted centres, but, look!, also of the public centres, because this law violates the freedom of choice of all. Why? Because you eliminate the concept of social demand and replace it with that of programming, a programming way We can, Stalinist, where you decide which school our children have to go to where they live and not the educational project that goes best for them, and this is a real atrocity. Because, moreover, this is a sham for children who have specific education needs and special education needs, 37,000 of whom, 60% - I mean, very clearly - go to public education. And why is it a scoundrel? Because you identify inclusion with ordinary schooling; and yes, inclusion can be achieved in some cases in ordinary schooling, when you put many resources, which you do not put, in the law, when you put many resources, but you can also get inclusion in special schooling. Because to see if they find out, there are parents who ask their children to go to school in the ordinary, and they have all the support of Citizens, I would miss more!, well done; but it is that there are parents who ask, in the best interests of the child, that their children go to school in specialized education, and there are many places missing. The truth is that this law neither for one, nor for another puts resources or strategies. Changing a law without a plan and without money is a real fear. Quality and equity. You trap, I have already told you a thousand times; you leave in the hands of educational centres and communities the conditions for children to promote and qualify. Why? Because they will not be able to meet the objectives that Europe has set for them in the recommendations of the European Semester regarding failure and drop out of school. So, as you have been asked to do a structural reform by broad consensus and consensus only with your friends, you have decided to cheat and make the subject of the hanging trap. You have also traded with this law, you have traded with nationalism. Proof of this is the lack of competence of the High Education Inspectorate, which, for example, will no longer be able to ensure that we are not discriminated against on the grounds of language. Or the attempt to politicize the inspection, yes, the attempt to politicize the inspection by removing the proof for access to this body. But the most important marketing is seen in the amendments that you, gentlemen of the PSOE, have negotiated not only with Esquerra Republicana and with Bildu to label Spanish as the official language of the State and to remove it as a vehicle for teaching, but also with the PNV to determine the language of one's own language. It's his own language, the co-official language, and the Castilian is an improper language, isn't it? We don't agree. We already know that when the PP ruled it also did not manage to be able to study in Spanish in those communities where there were co-official languages, but to leave without even legal protection thousands of families in Catalonia, Valencia and the Basque Country really exceeds any limit. The effects of these changes are political, but also social. Why? Because the secessionists are going to be strengthened and they are going to turn education into a factory of votes for their interests, but it is that the constitutionalists feel sold and segregated in our own country, in our own communities. Gentlemen of the PSOE, you will never again be able to say that you have had no alternatives. All of them. We have tabled an amendment with two options. One of them was simply to commit themselves to serving court sentences and we have been told no. Are you an anti-system party already or what? We have also tried to negotiate with the PNV and with Junts per Cat. We supported your amendment to try to save the barbarities of this law and the whole focus was on the Republican Left of Catalonia, Mr Rufián, the whole focus. You had the capacity to decide between freedom and the quality of education with your abstention or between negotiation and secessionism and you have chosen negotiation and secessionism. We have very little hope that this can be fixed and we will announce that we are going to vote no and that, if this law goes ahead, we will immediately go to the Constitutional Court to denounce all these abuses and we will also go to the European Commission - we are sending questions now - to let them know what is going on in this country, along with other issues...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u17	Mrs. Martin, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u18	...with the subject of the Education Act, which is a real barbarity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u20	Thank you, Madam President. We obviously agree with the need to leave the Lomce behind and without effect. However, the Government has fallen far behind the expectations of educational communities and society. We start from recognizing the obvious, that in relation to Lomce there are important advances in this law, but in our view they are insufficient to give an approval. The BNG has tabled more than one hundred amendments which have not been taken into account, with the exception of three transactions, amendments aimed at genuinely strengthening public education because we are committed to quality public education, to reducing the weight of concerts, to fixing their subsidiary character and reducing their duration, to clearly establishing non-segregation by sex or to preventing non-compulsory teaching. We defend a secular teaching, in which confessional religion has no place in the classrooms. Returning to the prelomce situation does not seem enough. The concordat with the Vatican is pre-constitutional, so it must be repealed. We advocate strengthening the competence of the Autonomous Communities to truly assume the plurinational, pluricultural and multilingual configuration of the State because we conceived this law as a basic law that does not limit Galicia's competences to define its own educational system, to guarantee funding, to reduce ratios, to the freeness of complementary services, to the democratic choice of directions, to the decision, despite false polemics, to advance in linguistic normalization and to improve the conditions of teaching staff. Finally, there are many aspects in which the reform is short. Of course we are going to facilitate its approval, we are not going to oppose it because we want to leave the Lomce behind, but, as I said, we cannot approve it, so we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u22	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I will start by reminding you that what really destroys education in our country is, for example, the fulminant dismissal of 1000 teachers and 500 educators in the Community of Madrid, where you govern and support. [[Applauds]] But in this country every time we discuss education we end up talking about religion and language and everything ends in the Constitution, although we all know here that the problem of our educational system is neither religion nor language, the conflict of language was introduced by the Wert Law with the Lomce. The real problems - which we have not talked about or at least have not heard so far - are cuts and lack of funding, especially in public schools; it is school failure and lack of resources to combat it; it is inequality and segregation; it is the problem of the precarious situation of teachers, especially in public schools, without support to cover all the needs of pupils. If this system, which you defend so much, works, why no one here has yet been able to explain why with the same abilities students of families with less economic capacity repeat four times as much as those with greater economic capacity and why the failure to obtain ESO mainly affects students of families with less economic capacity. If we don't talk about it and we don't explain it, it's very complicated. We have worked in this direction because only with good funding will we be able to lower the ratios, because only with free and universal child education will we make it accessible to all families and we will start to close the gap from an early age, because only if concerts are specifically educational and non-profit projects will it be possible to prevent education - as is already health - from becoming a business. We have introduced improvements in both vocational and environmental training, which will allow us to understand from school the need to care for the planet and preserve the future. We will continue to work on some claims throughout the law because we must guarantee...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u23	Mrs. Sabanes, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u24	... something as revolutionary as the enforcement of the law with regard to the admission of students and the control over the collection of quotas in all centers supported with public funds and, for that, we ask them to be public. We support the demand to include ethics as a subject in the fourth ESO.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u25	Mrs. Sabanes, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u26	Let's support the law. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u27	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u28	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to say to you that this is not the law that we had drawn, we had imagined, but as I understand that the tone of the interventions from this one is going to rise, I wanted to thank you for the good tone that we have found above all in the Socialist Group when it comes to negotiating and talking and that, despite not having reached the agreement, to the law that we wanted, we have always found that predisposition. I am saying this because since I imagine the tone is going to rise, I think it is also right to claim this idea. Ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching this educational reform on the basis of two concepts: firstly, the repeal of the Lomce; we carried it on our electoral agenda; we committed ourselves to this when the law was passed and that was one of our pillars, one of our lines of work. The second was the defence of the LEC, the Llei d'educació of Catalonia, adopted in 2009 with a broad consensus of all the parliamentary groups of the Catalan Chamber except the People's Group, which appealed to the Constitutional Court a lot of articles minus the articles that related to the language, assuming therefore that there was no problem the linguistic issue in 2009, which has now suddenly become a serious problem. And we defended the LEC because it has two pillars that are fundamental: the defense of a model of public schools but also of schools that, without being public, are supported with public funds, the concerted schools, that, in our opinion, enrich, improve and give more plurality and freedom to the educational system; and for a matter of language, we believe that linguistic immersion is an educational, pedagogical methodology that guarantees the full domination of the two co-official languages in Catalonia. With regard to the concerted action, I believe that there is a certain obsession on the part of a considerable part of the left of this country that everything is tremendously public, giving more importance to making things public and not to making the service of quality, and that has led us to have a law that does not guarantee wealth and plurality in an educational ecosystem that we believe should be all that. As for the language, Mr Sayas, Mr Mazón, Mrs Martín, I want to reassure you because, if it is true that the text eliminates the concept of a vehicle language when it comes to Spanish, it guarantees you that students have the right to receive lessons in Spanish. And you tell me, Mrs. Martín, if receiving teachings in Spanish is not having Spanish as a vehicle language. [[Mrs. Martín Llaguno makes negative gestures]] And I give you one more peace of mind: I say to you that those who must guarantee this right according to the wording that will be voted on this morning are the educational administrations, they must guarantee this right, not the autonomous ones, not the educational ones. And, as you know perfectly well, article 2, which remains in force today and which will continue to be in force tomorrow, defines as educational administrations - and I quote it textually - the organs of the General Administration of the State, that is, the ministry, and - not 'or', 'y' - of the autonomous communities. You can be very quiet, ladies and gentlemen, because it will be the ministry that must guarantee the right of the students to receive teaching in Spanish or, which is the same, that the Spanish is a language to be used in Catalonia when the parents of the students so desire; with this you can be very quiet about the language. [[Mrs. Martín Llaguno makes negative gestures]] Worry about the concerted, which is certainly troubling, but as far as the language is concerned, they can be very calm because this article is interpretable, and those who defend immersion know that in terms of language any interpretation can be turned against us. Ladies and gentlemen, today a side of this House is going to celebrate with a great deal of euphoria a law that you certainly feel very much about, and I think this is a bit of a failure of all, not just of this side but of all, because the interesting thing is not that an educational law that is very much on one side is passed, but that the interesting thing and the challenge that we all had ahead was that a law that was a little bit of everyone was passed. That would be the best guarantee that in two years' time we would not have to change this educational law, when parliamentary majorities are others. The victims are students, they are teachers, they are families, and it is ultimately the whole education system, with which I do not think we can be particularly satisfied with what we are going to do here this morning. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u29	Thank you, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u30	Thank you, President. Is this law our law? No, no, Is this law better than it was? Yeah. As a teacher, I am proud of this law of education. As an independentist, not so much. But as a teacher, as an independentist and as a Democrat, I am pleased to repeal a Lomce who intended to Spanishize Catalan children and which is based on a Francoist conception of education. Look at you, I have worked in primary, secondary, adult school, management, inclusion projects in very vulnerable neighbourhoods and, from my experience, I sincerely believe that this law allows very important educational and pedagogical advances. However, as a proud teacher of the Catalan school, I regret that this law does not allow us to fully develop the pedagogical innovation that we seek, because Madrid still maintains important competences, such as the supervisor, the High Inspectorate of Education, and this will be so until we are independent. The best guarantee for the Catalan school is the Catalan Republic. In spite of everything, we had never reached such a high level of competence, and shielding linguistic immersion in Catalonia is more than a triumph, because this law establishes that the vehicle language is decided according to the rules of autonomy and the LEC. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Compañeros de Junts per Cat and compañeros de la CUP, if you continue to have doubts about the shielding of the dive, see the indignation of the entire Spanish right: they call it scoundrel. Mr Sergi, if you want to change the term of educational administrations, you will have to do it more than two hundred or three hundred times, because it comes out throughout the law. Gentlemen of Citizens, who were born to combat linguistic immersion, if they want to end it, present in the Parliament of Catalonia a proposal for reform of the statute, because it is shameful to pretend to impose from Madrid what we do not want in Catalonia. In the Valencia Country there have been thousands of families who have not been able to school their children in Catalan and you have not cared the least, while they were greatly offended because a dozen parents in Catalonia could not do so in Spanish. They are not concerned that in the Valencià Country or in Euskal Herria there are pupils who do not have as good a mastery of Valencià or Basque as they do of Castilian, because they do not care about the languages but about the Spanish; because they do not pretend that the children know how to speak Spanish - this they all already know - but that the Spanish is, from some supremacist point of view, the language of communication of teaching and throughout Catalan society, whether or not we want Catalans and Catalans and even if this implies the minority and extinction of the Catalan language. As has been demonstrated in Catalonia, linguistic immersion, in addition to being a factor of social inclusion, guarantees the normal expression of Catalan and Spanish of all, while in the Valencià Country without immersion only Spanish is guaranteed. In other words, linguistic immersion is the only one that guarantees the learning of the two languages. Those who oppose it are those of 'in Spain, in Spanish'. What will they care about in Burgos or Seville in what language are the classes of my Empordà or in Eivissa? Why do you mind if we do it in Catalan? From a colonizing perspective, what they claim is to castellanize the Catalan countries to deny our identity as a people. This is what Wert intended when he defended Spanishizing Catalan children, that is to say, Spanishizing them, because Spain only conceives it in Spanish. This law also begins to overcome the legacy of the Catholic national school. Although the current arrangements of the regime of 78 with the Vatican do not permit the exclusion of the religion from school, with our amendments we have succeeded in ensuring that, instead of the dogmatic teaching of a religion, the subject of Religious Culture is taught. It is, in fact, a lack of respect for faith that religion is considered a subject with school tests and practices that is approved or suspended. The teaching of faith should move from the classroom to the temple, and believers who criticize it should consider it a great opportunity to bring young people and believing families closer to their churches. We have made it possible for gender segregation not to be subsidized by public money, much progress, though not enough. In the same way that we would not allow segregation by reason of birth or skin color, neither can we afford segregation by sex. In addition, we have incorporated in the law affective sex education, which is very important in terms of health, personality development, gender equality, sexual orientation and gender identity and, of course, in terms of happiness. We also incorporate values and teachings in empathy with animals, in democracy, in justice or in peaceful resolution of conflicts, and believe me that in Catalonia we know the importance of educating in these values. In contrast to a centralist, vertical, retrograde Wert Law, of exams and revalidated and precarious to the faculty, this law has important advances strongly defended by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, such as teaching by fields, the competitive development of the curriculum, the maintenance of the schools, the greater autonomy of the centers, the empowerment of leadership - I am finishing -, the improvement of the conditions of the faculty, etc. For this reason, even if it is not our ideal law, it is a moral duty to deactivate the Wert Law and allow more tools for the development of the Catalan school. In any case, stop politicizing teaching and worry about ensuring training and resources as if they were aware of the responsibility to train future generations and believe that it is in the school that progress and the future are born. For this reason, I would like to acknowledge the pedagogical and educational work of all the professionals of the Catalan school and, in particular, of those who have been identified and persecuted by the Spanish repressive machinery for exercising their right to freedom of tenure and their vocation to form critical and free citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Bassa. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Sánchez Serna.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u32	Thank you, President. Today we put an end to the educational counter-reform of the People's Party, the Lomce and its elitist, segregating and retrograde model. That is why I want to begin this intervention by reminding and thanking the educational community and the green tides for their struggle for years to repeal the Lomce and recover quality public education. [[Applauds]] The Lomloe that we voted today came to this Congress as the education law of a monocolor executive and will come out as the education law of a coalition government. From the United Nations We have introduced very important amendments to shield public education, to boost the educational stage from 0 to 3 years and to correct the social segregation of students. These are measures that were not in the original text and that strengthen and expand the right to education. Perhaps for this reason these days we are seeing the three right-wings very angry with this educational law, but instead of criticizing the concrete measures of the Lomloe or in any case counter the supposed kindnesses of their model of paid and revalid school, you have launched a campaign of disinformation and bulwark and are saying authentic barbarities: that if the Castilian of Catalan schools is going to disappear, that if you are going to close the special education centers and I do not know how many more lies. Ladies and gentlemen, this law makes a clear commitment to public education as the backbone of the education system, and it does so because it is the public school that ultimately guarantees equality of opportunity and social cohesion. You, ladies and gentlemen of the three right-wing parties, can continue with the victimist discourse, with the speech of the freedom of choice of families, but it is a phrasing speech, and I say phrasing because you do not defend the freedom of choice of families, for example, to choose a public education of quality. That's why in the previous crisis they smashed public school. Nor do you defend the freedom of families with fewer resources, who are required to pay illegal fees or who are excluded from certain centres, no; what you defend is not called freedom, it is called simple and purely privilege. Surely this law of education lacks things. Since the Confederal Group we have, in fact, maintained three important amendments: a first amendment to lower the ratio of pupils per classroom and thus ensure more personalized attention; a second amendment to remove religion from school hours, such as neighbouring countries such as France, and to move towards secular education; and a third amendment to recover the subject of ethics in the fourth of the ESO. We are also on World Philosopher's Day, and it would be good to ratify the commitment we have made to all parties. In any case, we are faced with a law that advances to defend, to shield public education. That is why, with the approval of the Lomloe, I think it is probably a bad day for those who have always understood education as a privilege or as a class distinction, but I think we have reason to congratulate those who have always known that education is first and foremost a right. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mena Arca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u34	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Believe me if I tell you that today is one of those days when it is worth being a Member of this House. Today we finally repeal the Lomce, today we finally shield the linguistic immersion and today we finally have an educational law that bets on public education as a backbone of our educational system. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, you have tried to boycott this law by land, sea and air, accusing us of prioritizing public school and breaking Spain in that strange conception you have of Spain, which would become something like a Chinese vase at a children's party. Your attitude leads me to a reflection. Imagine that the vaccine against future pandemics, such as the COVID, was at the head of a girl in the neighborhood of La Mina de Barcelona or in the neighborhood of Los Pajaritos de Sevilla. Do you know what would happen to your elitist school and cut-off model? Spain was most likely to run out of vaccine because schools in La Mina and Los Pajaritos would be in worse condition than a school in Salamanca. That's the model the right-wingers want to impose. When I was a professor at the Ferrán Casablancas Institute and in many other schools in vulnerable environments, I learned a very important thing about patriotism. I learned what is the patriotism of the teacher, the one who believes in the possibilities of every child in the country, whether from the neighborhood or from the family that comes, just as teachers believe in the possibilities of every child in our classrooms. [[applause]] That is why we have worked to shield public education in this law, because we firmly believe that there is no freedom and no future without equal opportunities. Today could be perfectly in this rostrum any of my companions, who have been fighting against the Wert law for seven years, any student who has not been able to go to university because of a minister who called efficiency what were ideological cuts, any counselor or psychopedagogue that was despised during the governments of the People's Party. This law is for all of them, because they know better than many of us here why it is so important to bury the Lomce. Madam Minister, I would like to highlight all the work that we have been able to do in this law and, in particular, five issues: inclusive education, which of course also guarantees special education; the prohibition of the transfer of public land to private schools; the plan to guarantee access to children's education from 0 to 3; the end of sexist concerts and, of course, the protection of linguistic immersion in Catalonia as a model of equal opportunities and the coexistence between two languages that we want to be able to look at each other with equal respect. I am finished, Madam President, I do not want to be complacent, because that is what the right-wing quexica is for, and we want to keep moving forward and making progress in this country. I recognize, let us recognize, Minister, that there are things that have remained in the tinker in this law. Ethics, the reduction of ratios, not opening the concerts to non-compulsory stages, ending religion within schools or the democratic choice of the direction of the centers are still pending subjects. On behalf of my group, I would like to say to the whole educational community: Thank you for all the efforts you have made to get here today to repeal the Lomce. We're right next to you. Just as we said that we would repeal the Lomce, and today we are fulfilling it, I tell you that our commitment does not end here and that we will continue to push, because there is no archbishop, young man or elite school lobby that can frighten the security we have in the potential of every child in this country. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u35	Thank you, Mr. Mena. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Robles López has the floor. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when I was beginning to work, in the early 1990s, the Logse was approved, which gave impetus to a new pedagogy aimed at turning teaching into a process where effort, constancy and discipline gave way to an assistance system where knowledge was the least and indoctrination, playfulness and procedural emptiness the most. Thirty years later we have reached the culmination of this degeneration. The Lomloe, adopted in haste, without having listened to anyone in the Commission or in a paper, drawn from the backs of trade unions and professional associations, is a law that certifies the end of the role of social elevator of the teachings, executed by the real enemies of the most disadvantaged social classes, which are you, the lords of the PSOE and the lords of the United Podemos, because they condemn these social classes to receive in school an infamous papilla that will quench any possibility of social promotion, and they are also enemies of the most loyal regions of our mistrecha Spain. [[applause]] Can you explain here on behalf of what equity the investment for a Basque student is 60% higher than for the rest of Spain? Such an invasion; they want you to be invaded: 60% higher investment and a Basque teacher charge 11,000 euros more than a teacher in the rest of the provinces. Where is equity, do you want to tell me? Can you explain in which psychopedagogical theory, can you justify that there are seventeen different curricula? [[Applauds]] And, above all, can you explain to Catalan workers - not to those of Burgos, but to Catalans, to the humblest families in Catalonia who have Spanish as their mother tongue - under what pedagogical theory they are forced to immersion linguistically in Catalan? [[Applauds]] To be clear, it is not only a question of ensuring knowledge of Spanish, as stated in Article 3, and of the co-official languages, but also of establishing the language of the vehicle, in which language the teachings are taught. The same ones as in the 1980s, to justify the presence of Catalan in the classrooms, presented pedagogical reports that considered the need to enrol children in their mother tongue, now put these reports in the drawer because it is the Spanish language. And you put them in and hide them because you, separatists, have no more interest in education than turning it into a factory of independenceists, into an instrument for secession. That's why they include lies about the history of Spain, they linguistically limit the mobility of teachers, they chase teachers and teachers who do not commune with their creed until they expel them from the system and control the inspection to stop the systematic abuse, the habitual violation of the law practiced in the educational centers. [[Applauds]] And now, not content with the fact that in practice Spanish has been eradicated from teaching while the PP and PSOE governments looked elsewhere, they claim that this shameful reality acquires a certificate of legality by eliminating the status of Spanish as a vehicle language. And, at the same time, the Sánchez Government and its Bolivarian partners are continuing their efforts to use education to spread their ideology by preventing anyone from escaping this indoctrination. In their tyranny they skip the Constitution, they propose to close the centers of children's and special education, they give a temporary time to suffocate them slowly, and this against the voices of the parents, who intend to silence them by including in article 74, paragraph 2, the illegality of preventing them from exercising their rights when the opinion of schooling does not coincide with their own, denying them the possibility of administrative complaint, and they also intend to do the same with a concerted school. This unfortunate law, the most sectarian and, in the long run, the most dangerous to our nation, enshrines all the dogmas of advanced ideology. You even put in Primary those absurd theories of the genre that, from the back to biology, anthropology and the most elementary common sense, affirm that self-perception determines the gender and the subsequent consideration of the individual as man and woman. And then the terraplanists are us; don't bother! [[Applauds]] They include not a real sex education, focused on the objective explanation by accredited professionals of how to prevent transmission diseases or how to have responsible behavior, but a confusing exaltation of sexual freedom, as if this were a kind of thermostat of happiness, without attending to paternal opinions and often giving these lessons to non-teaching staff of subsidized groups related to their ideology, of whom we ignore their titling, their merits and who are not even required to be certified as penal, mandatory for teachers and teachers. [[Applauds]] Curious paradox is this of those who have instituted a puritanic and grotesque form of censorship where the image of a short skirted stewardess must be removed for violating the dignity of women, but they find in schools irresponsible sexuality and seek to snatch the innocence of our children. You are not interested in intellectual formation or moral formation, you are not interested in preserving national unity or promoting the most disadvantaged; you want a sleepy and domesticated people. As much as they mention the critical spirit, this formula is nothing more than a flatus voices, a mere appearance. You want activists, not citizens, because to be critical you have to have judgment, and to have judgment you have to have knowledge, and that's what you want to eradicate by eliminating any stimulus for the student with their general approval and their automatic promotion. You, gentlemen of the caviar left, will send your children to good and demanding private schools, while the Spanish people will keep you a slave to your passions and conformists with the crumbs that, in the form of minimum income and care education, you offer them; as the Catalan separatist oligarchs, who send their children to foreign paid schools, while forcing Catalans to immersion in language and a poor teaching aimed at forming a legion of independentists at their service. Neither mathematics nor Latin nor Greek, but much indoctrination. They refuse to adapt curricula for those students with high abilities, neglecting attention to diversity, which apparently only serves to adapt these curricula downwards. You are contrary to every manifestation of excellence and intelligence, and it does not surprise us, because intelligence is always against tyranny. [[Applauds]] We will be next to children's schools, alongside special education centres, concerted school, associations of mathematicians and teachers of classical culture, music and families in general. You gentlemen of the Caviar and Fundamentalist Left Government will be able to insult my party, you will be able to distort and lie, you will be able to try to illegalize us, but you will never be able to silence the voice of almost 4 million people - and many more who will come from your ranks, as you understand the nature of the betrayal you are committing - committed to your nation, and so on with a true national education that puts all Spanish students on an equal footing, studying the same in the three models and in the same proportion, and each according to their merits and abilities. You have abandoned the Spanish people and put yourselves at the service of the separatist and globalist oligarchies, but in VOX we hope that this people, so often indomitable, will rebel against the sad fate that you are facing us. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u37	Thank you, Mr. Robles. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Moneo Diez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Aristotle pointed out that the idea of freedom is linked to the very essence of the human being. It is not, therefore, this intervention that contradicts the words of probably the most influential thinker in the Western world. Because in defense of freedom the citizens have worked, fought and fought; you cannot understand the history of the West, the same thing that you cannot understand the history of Spanish constitutionalism, without keeping freedom in mind in its entirety. That is why it is difficult to understand, if not impossible, that at the end of the first quarter of the twenty-first century we have to go up to this rostrum to defend freedom, to defend our freedom. Because the opinion that we are debating today goes beyond the purely educational debate. We are faced with a very superior project of extraordinary magnitude, deeply ideologicalized and also beginning with the most basic: asphyxiating the one who does not submit to the unique thought; that continues to dilute the individual responsibility of the person for the benefit of the community; that suppresses the culture of effort, the search for quality, excellence, the spirit of overcoming and resilience; that deprives the faculty of all authority. A project that liquidated the vertebration of the system, equality of opportunity, for the benefit of a false egalitarianism that is only the foreground of mediocrity. A project that banishes the right of parents to choose education and the educational centre in which to school their children, imposing a state teaching monopoly, which Professor Tomás and Valiente - sounds to them, ladies and gentlemen - has fought since his particular vote to the Loece, the first educational law of democracy. It is a project that ignores the jurisprudence and doctrine of the Constitutional Court. How many sentences you want me to mention, ladies and gentlemen -2006, 2008, 2010, 2017, 2018- to tell you that no, that there is no such monopoly, that what our magna charter contains is an educational and institutionalized pluralism; that the right to education can be achieved through the public network, through the concerted network; that they are complementary networks, because subsidiarity - however much it weighs them - is totally contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. It is a project that does not recognize Spanish as the official language of the State and its vehicular character in the educational system; the language, ladies and gentlemen, in which Cervantes wrote El Quixote; the language in which six illustrious Spaniards achieved the highest prize that can be awarded to a writer, the Nobel, from Echegaray to Vargas Llosa. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you have read today's press, where several former directors of the Cervantes Institute describe this as: a scoundrel, a language genocide. It is a project in which from the first line of its writing there is a spirit of confrontation, of rupture, ignoring that in this House two years ago we sat down the different political forces to comply with what society demanded: a great pact. The European Commission itself recognizes that the success of a reform will depend on the investment of the necessary time in building a broad and lasting political and social consensus. Well, according to this, ladies and gentlemen, minister, this law, before it is passed, is a failed law. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is not an innocuous law, this is a law of rupture, this law certifies the break of the constitutional pact in education, the break of our system of freedoms, the break of our competitive model. In short, the breakdown of the Constitution. [[Applauds]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, has been promoted by you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, one of the parties that has been an important part of the history of this country. You, members of the Socialist Group, have lost your status as a party of state, have renounced your inheritance as a party of government, have betrayed the most elementary principles on which your legacy has been established. And all for what. For keeping in power. So don't talk to us about education, because your project is anything but an educational project. Sometimes I wonder if you have had the opportunity to talk to those who have historically voted for you, if you have explained to them that - forty years after the hug that our elders gave you - you have broken that constitutional consensus, that you are leading us towards a Confederal Spain, Minister, and you have taken the first step in the process of this law. Historically totalitarian movements have always tried to control education, always; their comrades in the Council of Ministers know this well and, as you burn, they cast out the ashes, because gradually they are achieving their goal; with your help, ladies and gentlemen, with your invaluable help. That is why the task they are forcing us to do right now has a historical dimension. From here I say to you that we, which are a state party and a government party, are going to use the instruments available to us, all of us, to curb their authoritarian drift; that we are going to promote, in the field of our competences, a vertebrate and vertebrate educational model, which guarantees equal opportunities for students, families and teachers; that we make the latter, the teachers, the key to the vault on which to base the profound transformations that our educational system requires. [[applause]] We are, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, the only group in this House that has put on the table a change in the model of selection, access, continuing training and professional career of the teacher, in front of you, who have broken the national bodies of the teacher, Minister. A model that places the educational inspection at the top of the professional pyramid of the teacher, fleeing from that project of political commissioners that you intend to place in the centers. We will start a crusade to ensure that teachers do not flee public education, because that is what is going to happen, ladies and gentlemen, because you, who claim to be defenders of public education, have become your worst enemies. We will defend without rest the educational freedoms before you, who have put a price on freedom; the freedom of families opting for public education, those opting for concerted, differentiated, special education. Delete additional provision 4a, Minister; this is the only way we will believe them. And we will do so because everything is in the Constitution and in the international treaties signed by Spain - up to six - because defending freedom is guaranteeing quality and guaranteeing quality is, above all, protecting the weakest. Ladies and gentlemen, when the world faces profound challenges and demands profound transformations in its policies, we will make humanistic training and the acquisition of digital skills the points on which to boost the knowledge and skills of the 21st century. We will strengthen those elements of quality and equity that have been committed to destroying: evaluation, transparency, the autonomy of the centres and the strengthening of the management function, precisely to help and encourage those who need it most. I'm finishing up, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all different, wonderfully different and, therefore, a system must give each student what he needs, not all the same, starting with early schooling and ending with the adaptation of Dual Vocational Training to our productive system. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have just started, the end of political life is to make good citizens capable of noble actions. Ethics to Nicomaco. Surely this is not what this law seeks, but what millions of Spaniards expect of us. To them, ladies and gentlemen, we owe it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Moneo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor in the Socialist Parliamentary Group for positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u40	Good morning, Madam President. Thank you. Madam Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to you all very carefully, but, unfortunately, I am afraid that some of you have not heard at all about the education needs of this country. They have been more interested in ideological confrontation and spreading lies than in talking about education. Sadly, they have shown that they lack a State vision of education and that they do not have the least degree of modesty in spreading, in spreading lies, bubbles and fakes that generate discomfort and mistrust in the educational system, but also in the principles of our democratic system. Look, ladies and gentlemen, that is an absolute irresponsibility and it makes us much stronger in defending a critical and democratic education. [[Applauds]] There are so many lies and falsehoods that have been spreading lately, that I'm just going to stick to some of them. I'll start with your favorite one, the one where we end up with the Castilian. It is a fictitious story whose only objective is to generate confrontation and hatred, something that we reject head-on in this law. For us, languages are a source of union, a source of pride; for you, of division, obviating the linguistic rights of more than 40% of Spanish citizens. Hear it clearly: the Spanish is triplely guaranteed. How can they question that additional provision 38 is unconstitutional when it is literally based and quoted in the Spanish Constitution? How can all Spaniards generate that lie and suspicion about language rights? [[Applauds]] Secondly, special education. We have told you on many occasions: special education, special education centres will not be closed, ladies and gentlemen. Stop playing with the vulnerability of families, stop cheating and confront this Government with something as delicate and sensitive as disability. It's just bad. Oppositions for access to the teaching function or for educational inspection are not eliminated. I recommend that you improve your reading skills, and stop relying exclusively on undisputed and absolutely false headlines who read the articles of the law, of which some of you were theoretically speakers, because at this point you should have known what this law consists of, ladies and gentlemen, and not continue to lie systematically. [[Applauds]] Let's go to what matters. Today is a historic day: seven years later we will repeal the Lomce. Yes, a commitment made with more than ten parliamentary groups seven years ago. Unfortunately, some do not keep their word: Mrs Oramas - whom I see has disappeared - Mr Miquel, and Mr Rego, who belong to the Canary Coalition, CiU and the BNG, who at that time signed to repeal Lomce and who have completely forgotten their commitment. For 80% of Spanish teachers, Lomce was an unnecessary law, according to a report by the Autonomous University of Madrid. - By the way, it's a study based on scientific evidence, empirical evidence, and not on some headlines you usually resort to continuously. It was an unnecessary law and accompanied by the most brutal cuts in education and with the most retrograde approach across the European Union. Let's talk about differences. The Lomce has undergone eleven amendments in their entirety. There were 1666 amendments, of which only 34 were accepted from the opposition. Faced with this, I will tell you that more than 300 amendments have been adopted in the Lomloe, an agreed, negotiated, consensual and dialogue law with parliamentary groups and with the educational community. [[Applauds]] For those who say that this law has not been participated, more than 250 contributions have been included that belong to different organizations, more than 200, with which we have been working, negotiating and talking to incorporate into the law; 250 proposals incorporated into the law, ladies and gentlemen, that is real participation, the rest is party use, which is what you have all been doing. [[Applauds]] Lomloe makes an important qualitative leap towards a modern, equitable and inclusive system that guarantees quality education for all and for all, ladies and gentlemen. And this does not imply an attack on concerted education, nor on freedom. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of the right, it is good to use the word freedom, because you use it in a very biased way. They defend the concept of freedom only for those who have resources, but they obviate many others who do not have them and who do not have that freedom to decide. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is it freedom or indoctrination that is being done with children in the courtyards of the centres agreed today? Is it freedom or indoctrination, ladies and gentlemen, to use children, minors, with the reading of manifestos, sadly and shamefully? [[Applauds]] That's manipulation. [[Strong protests.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government, standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the guarantees of a balanced distribution of pupils are now being strengthened, avoiding that it is the centres that select the pupils. That is why we put an end to certain abuses committed at the time of the governments of the People's Party, such as the granting of free public land to companies that have allowed them to work at the expense of reducing public supply in certain municipalities, planning and areas of new creation. Do you know what you've achieved with that? Nothing more and nothing less than giving rise to plots of corruption, such as the Punica, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party; I imagine that will sound like it. [[Protests.-Applause.]] The Lomloe is committed to an educational model of integrated equity, advances in the schooling of children's education, closes the digital divide, guarantees scholarships as a subjective right, progresses in the reduction of school dropout and progresses in the achievement of greater school success with preventive measures to avoid repetition, so exaggerated in this country, limiting it to a maximum of twice throughout compulsory education. We want a much more flexible system, with the principles of educational inclusion for all students throughout all stages of education. It increases the autonomy of schools and also the possibility of curriculum development by schools, promotes more up-to-date and necessary content for the education system, strengthens the rural school, we create a curriculum development institute so that the educational curriculum can be continuously updated and, without any doubt, the participation is recovered in an effective way also in the decision-making of the school councils.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u41	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u42	I'm done, Your Honor. Lomloe is inspired by the tradition of dialogue and consensus of the Socialist Party. It is a law that advances in equity, it is a modern law that of course defends the principles of equity and inclusion, but it is a law that we are going to draw out among all... [[Protests and rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u43	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u44	... because it is first and foremost a plural law that we have achieved among the various parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]] I'm done. I thank you... [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u45	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish now, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u46	I thank the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but also those groups that believe and bet on education; Mrs Bassa, Mrs Gorospe, Mr Mena, Mrs Sabanes and all those who truly believe in Spanish education and their progress. [[strong protests.-Applause]] [[Strong protests and applause continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u47	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u48	With education progress is made. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, as well as of the members of the Government, stood up.-The ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing up and hitting the seats with their hands, shout repeatedly: 'Freedom!', 'freedom!', 'freedom!'! This situation is prolonged for several minutes.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the point relating to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 33/2020 of 3 November, adopting urgent measures to support entities of the Third Sector of Social Action at the State level. To present the Royal Decree-Law, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030 has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we bring for its validation by this House a royal decree-law that will allow us to fulfill the commitment that the Vice President of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 has acquired, and that in this year 2020 the funding distributed by the public administrations among all the components of the third sector in Spain and especially among the entities of the Third Sector of Social Action. It is clear that we are faced with exceptional circumstances, marked by the incidence of a global pandemic that has very serious economic, labour and social consequences and which greatly affect the most vulnerable. From the outset, the Government has made a great effort to alleviate these social and economic effects, seeking to achieve the collective goal of doubling the contagion curve and protecting health and, at the same time, protecting the productive fabric, employment and income of the most vulnerable households, also strengthening public social services and rights such as access to housing and basic supplies, including by creating new social and subjective rights such as minimum living income. I am aware that the social effects of the pandemic continue to require this effort to continue and expand. In this regard, I believe that the draft general budgets, which are now in this House for discussion, are a good example of that commitment by the Government to an increase of nothing more and nothing less than 70% in the social services and social protection items. However, I believe that the public authorities have an obligation to recognise also that there are areas that we are not reaching and that a fundamental part of the social protection tasks, which would theoretically be the responsibility of the State as set out in the Constitution, are carrying out it, often unrecognized and under very difficult conditions, thousands of anonymous people who either as volunteers or as professionals are organized in associations and non-profit organizations around what is known as the Third Sector of Social Action. The third sector is a fundamental support for the effective realization of social rights, especially among the population at risk of exclusion, and represents one of the best expressions of a society committed to the values of social justice, equality, solidarity and participation, in a country like ours, which is characterized, precisely, by having an immense solidarity culture. It is therefore an obligation of this Government to recognize and thank the enormous effort being made by these civil society organizations, which in recent months have redoubled their task to meet the needs of those most affected by the pandemic. The work they have carried out since the beginning of this emergency has reinforced the protective action of all levels of the public administration by arriving, as I said, where the administrations are often unable to arrive. It is for this reason that we should express our appreciation of this democratic work from this rostrum: on behalf of the Government of Spain, thank you very much. I would also like to thank here all taxpayers, individuals or businesses, who mark the 0.7 % solidarity box when making their income tax or corporate tax return. Thanks to their commitment they contribute to the support of these entities and to the realization of thousands of projects of enormous value to society as a whole. It is up to the Government every year to ensure that these funds, derived from taxes paid by citizens and solidarity companies, are effectively distributed among third-sector entities and are used for activities of social interest. The real decree-law that we present today is precisely the expression of the determination of this vice-presidency to resort to all available instruments to achieve that goal. The financing of the third sector as a whole from the collection of the solidarity box of 0.7 % of the IRPF and for the first time this year also of the company tax has increased in 2020 by almost 60 million euros compared to 2019, amounting in total to 398 million euros. This funding is distributed among the Third Sector of Social Action, the Third Sector of International Cooperation and the Third Environmental Sector. In turn, the financing of the Third Sector of Social Action is distributed either through the Autonomous Communities or through the General Administration of the State. The Government has distributed these funds on the general basis that it was possible and desirable for the funding of all components of the third sector to be increased in a balanced manner, and this royal decree-law fulfils that purpose, as I will explain below. [[The Lord]] Most of these funds, around 60%, are distributed by the autonomous communities among the entities of the Third Sector of Social Action of an autonomous nature, which have seen their resources increase this year by 27 million euros, thanks to the decision of the Territorial Council of Social Services to increase the autonomous portion of the IRPF from 81% to 85% of the funds. With this decision, adopted in a consensual manner between the General Administration of the State and the autonomous communities, a greater volume of funds was allocated to direct intervention projects, which are those that can finance the autonomous communities in their territory, thus prioritizing the immediate impact on the vulnerable population affected by the social and economic consequences of COVID-19; in total, 241 million euros are being distributed through this route. The Third Sector of State Social Action has also seen its resources increased in this case by 19 million euros taking into account both the state tranche of 0.7 % of the IRPF and the resources distributed through this royal decree-law, coming from 0.7 % of the corporation tax. In total, it receives almost EUR 69 million this year, which will be allocated to the maintenance of the central structures of the entities, without which it would be impossible for them to develop their activity, and as I will explain below, to alleviate the consequences of COVID on the expenses of these organizations. Finally, these increases have been consistent with an increased allocation of resources received by the Third Sector of International Cooperation and the Third Environmental Sector of environmental or ecological entities, which together increase their funding by €13 million, to €88 million. As you know, these funds are channelled through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation and the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, and the Government's decision has also been to allocate to these types of entities, which also carry out activities of general interest considered of social interest, the same percentage of the resources collected through the corporation tax, which were receiving from the funds from the IRPF. Given this situation of the funds which, I insist, allows to increase in a balanced way the financing of all the components of the third sector, this vice-presidency has been responsible for distributing the almost 69 million euros destined for the Third Sector of State Social Action, and we have done so through two ways: the first, once the restrictions of the state of alarm have been lifted, was proceeded to publish - as in previous years - a call for projects aimed at those actions that fall within the competence of the General Administration of the State and that will be financed with 0.7 % of the IRPF. This call was resolved in the first instance last October, and this week the mandatory meetings of the Evaluation Commission, the National Council of Non-Governmental Organizations for Social Action and the Civil Dialogue Commission are being held, which will enable the final resolution to be signed in the coming days and the funds to be distributed among the entities. With this call, 266 entities receive funding for the implementation of more than 700 programmes. On the other hand, the Government has set up a fund for the entities of the Third Sector of Social Action of a state nature endowed with the resources coming from 0.7 % of the corporation tax, and distributed it through the nominative subsidies contained in the Royal Decree-Law. This decision is justified for two reasons: firstly, unlike the case of the IRPF, this is the first year that the funds from the solidarity effort of the companies that have selected the 0.7 box in their corporate tax return are to be distributed. The Budget Act 2018 established that regulatory development should be made for this, but the fact is that so far it has not been approved. The interruption of the administrative deadlines and other consequences of the state of alarm decreed in March caused us to find ourselves, in the middle of the year, with the need to carry out such a regulatory development and to publish and resolve a call for projects with a very high risk that the whole process could not be completed before the end of the year, losing these funds by the entities of the third sector. For this reason, and in the best interest of ensuring the distribution of resources at a time when the consequences of COVID-19 make them particularly necessary, the use of the Royal Decree-Law has been resorted to on clearly justified grounds of urgency. Secondly, this instrument will also allow for greater flexibility for entities in the use of these resources, always complying, of course, with all the guarantees required by the General Subsidy Act as to the justification for the use of public funds. In this way, the institutions may allocate the grants to the implementation of the projects of social interest they develop and also to the operating costs of the projects, including the costs incurred in these months for the necessary adaptation in the presentation of their services to the health requirements and the acquisition of protective equipment and other elements. This Royal Decree-Law ultimately distributes EUR 26 million among almost 300 entities of the Third Sector of Social Action, covering in a balanced manner the various fields in which these entities affect, such as the protection of children and families, the young population and the elderly, the field of promoting gender equality, combating discrimination and protecting victims of gender-based violence, supporting persons with disabilities, promoting volunteering or caring for specific groups such as the homeless, the prison population, migrants and other persons belonging to vulnerable groups. As I said at the outset, this royal decree-law makes it possible to comply with the Government's obligation to ensure that all resources derived from taxpayers' willingness to support the solidarity effort of the third sector are effectively distributed among these entities. In addition, it has made it possible to do so in a balanced manner, ensuring that it increases the funding of all the components of the third sector and caters to all the areas in which it deploys its activities. In this case, it is also a legal obligation that the Government fulfils with full satisfaction, namely, knowing that it contributes to an indispensable work that represents the best values of organised civil society in our country. We are aware that the solution with which these funds have been distributed this year is an exceptional solution, and it is justified by the urgency that I have just explained. From here, there is no doubt that the third sector funding system needs an in-depth review, which must meet at least three objectives. First, to reach a consensus on what part of the total funds will be distributed by the General Administration of the State and by the autonomous communities, ensuring respect for the constitutionally established division of competences and the role that the autonomous administrations have assigned in social protection, which is obviously enormous. Secondly, to ensure greater stability in the financing of the third sector, ensuring a figure and procedures that can ensure continuity of entities and projects. Thirdly, to improve the transparency of the allocation of funds that taxpayers decide to fund activities of general interest considered to be of social interest, the assessment of their impact and the accountability of administrations and entities receiving such funding. These changes must be the result of dialogue and consensus among the three main actors involved, the General Administration of the State, the Autonomous Communities and the entities of the Third Sector of Social Action. To this end, the Secretariat of State for Social Rights has already convened a first working meeting with the National Council of Non-Governmental Organizations for Social Action, which will be held next week, and we will also address it within the Territorial Council, so that in the first quarter of next year 2021 we can already have an agreement that can be implemented without further delay. I trust that this royal decree-law deserves the favourable vote of your ladies and gentlemen for its validation, which should not be understood as support for this Government, but for the hundreds of entities and thousands of people who make up the Third Sector of Social Action in our State. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Mr Vice-President and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030; Mr Co-President, to simplify and, by doing justice, not to demerit him, given the immediate background. For years, many of the well-deserved entities listed in the annex to the standard that you have just invited us to validate have come and been developing their activity, some from remote times, receiving public funds through the legal instruments designed for this purpose. Therefore, those organizations that carried out very hard work for the purposes of social cohesion and the fight against exclusion, especially in the most vulnerable groups, have always had at their disposal mechanisms for obtaining public resources, translated into budget items that applied to their needs. In order to achieve such funding as a general rule, Article 22 of Law 38/2003 of 17 November 2003 on Subsidies has, since its promulgation, included competitive competition, in order to take into account the higher or lower amounts of the subsidized entity and its greater or lesser adjustment to the valuation criteria previously established and to enable a fair priority to be established among the applicants. But the same provision also provides for the direct granting of subsidies when they precede the signing of the relevant agreement with the entity concerned and such a commitment is placed in the State's General Budgets. And what then, Mr Co-Chair, is the novelty that you bring us here today? For nothing less than providing us with a clearly subsidiary legal provision of the previous ones whereby the aid will be granted in the amount that is deemed appropriate by unilateral imposition of the Administration through the legal rule that will follow the procedure of concession that results from its application in accordance with its own legislation which, in this case - see what curious coincidence - will be a smooth and flat resolution of the Secretary of State for Social Rights attached to the ministry that you direct. Ladies and gentlemen, what is meant by the royal decree law that we are dealing with here is not that the entities that have done and do the noble tasks of social action in the so-called third sector of the state are more likely to be able to recover their arrears. No, no, no, no. This is not the case, because the system in force so far makes this possible, in addition to ensuring greater transparency in its perception and amounts. What the government is doing now is casting round as entities of the third sector to many who are pursuing purposes of genuine political burden of a certain sign, casually yours, Mr Turrion Churches. As of today, for that of transparency, you will be able to add to the label of your ministry the title of customer. Ladies and gentlemen, with this royal decreeley we are facing a way of financing a rough network which, paradoxically, is being perpetrated during one of the most serious economic and health crises we have experienced in Spain. I consider this to be notoriously serious, because, despite the fact that the explanatory statement is committed to something else, many subsidised entities have little or no relationship with the pandemic and its ravages; rather, they are closely linked to the ideological agenda of the section to which these large funds are attached, which they intend to water with money from all their network of neighbours; from social networks to customer networks. Those who came to politics denouncing with great apparatus and not little verbal incontinence precisely these things have rushed to join the same vices that they once reproached. It is not even allowed that the real social entities receive with transparency what they deserve, but that they mix them with others whose purpose is to extend for Spanish society a certain way of seeing things, whatever respectable they want, but which cannot be in any way costed by the money of all citizens, many of whom are suffering tragic hardships for this pandemic. Therefore, I oppose the creation of a rule to solve a problem that does not exist, since those who have been developing these social efforts have always perceived what belongs to them, as happens to the Spanish Red Cross or Caritas, for example, and because what seems to be sought here is a martingala to water the accounts of the State to those who do no more social task than to collect the subsidy to promote a concrete ideological current, camouflaging falsely under the label of solidarity. With regard to the amounts, article 6 of the decree merely expresses a figure without giving us any further information on its specific distribution among the subsidised entities and which must therefore be accepted on a flat-rate basis. Again, those who announced on a drum and platter that these opaque things would never happen again return in their own footsteps, because not even a formula is foreseen to determine the fate of this huge budget line, which remains at the disposal of the Government or the ministry of shift to devote it to their own liking, violating the principle of prohibition of the arbitrariness of public authorities enshrined in article 9 of the Constitution. Nor does it comply with Article 86 of our Charter with the extraordinary and urgent need to adopt this royal decree-law, since, as has been reasoned, the entities of the third sector dedicated to the social sphere have always been receiving their resources through the ordinary channels provided for in the laws. Therefore, it cannot be that the health emergency caused by the COVID can be a new patent of course to steal from the debate in this House an ordinary bill with this content, in which one can appreciate the devious character of what they finally claim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. When this royal decree-law came, one of those anthological phrases came to my mind that have sounded in Juvenal's history, which says that criticism is usually lenient with crows and demanding with pigeons. You described it. It is an exceptional situation in which exceptional solutions are taken and with measures which, in addition, exclude in part the regulatory development measures, which should probably have been accompanied by the relevant reports, but also the purpose of some of these aids, which are usually more projects than ordinary expenditure. But it is the situation that it is, we are also aware of it. In this case we want to be lenient with pigeons and that is why we are voting in favour. It can be done differently and it can be done better. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u55	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u56	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, we are faced with the proposal for a real decree which, as is well said, addresses exceptional circumstances, because it seems repetitive that every time we have to rise to this rostrum we should speak and remember the great ravages that this pandemic is causing in our society. We have reached a million and a half people infected and we have exceeded the forty thousand people who have died, according to official statistics, to whom we must add the thousands and thousands of people who have died without a diagnosis and those who have not been able to be treated correctly. These figures show us the structural impact that the health emergency has had on our country and that it has also strained in a very obvious way the seams on those points where they were seen to be much more fragile. This is the case of thousands and thousands of families in vulnerable situations in our State. We are talking about realities that are invisible. On many occasions I have said that, thinking of those positive effects - to say the least - that this crisis has had, it has highlighted great weaknesses that we had invisible and that affect the most vulnerable population groups. When we talk about the situation that has happened, we talk about dramas, dramas of many families that have not had in their day-to-day life to meet the most basic needs for both themselves and their children; older people living alone and almost without income; people who live in infra-life or homeless in the streets; migrants or members of ethnic minorities who suffer first-person segregation and discrimination. As you can see, we are not only referring to the situation of poverty. For those who are unfortunately vulnerable, it is a consubstantial attribute to their personal circumstances, such as the almost two million people who have some kind of disability or the 47 000 children and adolescents who are helpless who are protected by the Administration, some 20,000 of whom are living in juvenile centres, or the 41 women who have unfortunately been murdered, or those who are living daily with sexist violence, the more than 20,000 older people who lived in residences and who died between March and August in our country, often isolated and unable to receive medical care and, in all cases, without the presence of their loved ones. No one should live in helplessness and, of course, it is intolerable to die in helplessness. These extremely serious circumstances have highlighted the great work being done by the third sector of social action. It has again shown that one of the main tools for cushioning the effects of the pandemic is that unselfish and unselfish work carried out in Spain by some 30,000 entities, 2.7 million volunteers who make their work available to reach more than six million people who can be cared for in their day-to-day lives. To all of them, to all those entities, to all those who come to their services, we send our appreciation, our admiration and our support. Well, one of the traditional problems facing this third sector is its funding, and I think we need to have a calm debate in the medium term to see how we get a stable funding line for the work of the third sector. In fact, in order to support their projects and meet basic needs, most of these entities have to rely on individual donations, grants from multiple administrations, grants that I have lived in the first person and that, when you have to manage them, you see that they do not arrive in time or that they tell you that you will make the income, but we will see at what time; you live with uncertainty, but you have to continue to develop your task. To compensate for this precariousness, these entities were recognised in 2006 as 0.7 % of the funding raised through the IRPF. In 2018, 0.7 % of corporate tax has been incorporated. Although it is established that these funds will be distributed in advance of the call, the health emergency has changed every time and has altered all plans. That is why the distribution of these funds from 0.7% of corporate tax is carried out under the umbrella of this royal decree-law, a rule that we already share, and that is why we will vote in favour of it. We thus provide these third-sector entities with funding that we have now been told is absolutely necessary and indispensable so that they can continue to care for all those families that are currently most in need. In any case, this measure should not make us forget that, although we now put this patch, the financing problems of the third sector go much further, because their insecurity is motivated - it must be repeated - by the need to devote every year time and effort to ensure their financing for the following year. In the end, these entities are developing services that are public and, in many cases, they are already working with the public administration. It therefore makes no sense for its funding to depend on end-of-year grants, or on the distribution of funds allocated by the Government on the basis of its source of income, as a variable source of income. Therefore, our parliamentary group considers it essential to carry out work to promote the necessary measures to ensure the stability, viability and sustainability of these entities which form part of the Third Sector of Social Action. We believe that the Government cannot waste another minute to push forward the development of a new funding model for the Third Sector of Social Action, and on that path they will find Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u57	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Compromis will vote in favour of this royal decree-law in response to the serious situation of the pandemic and for entities working in the third sector to receive the subsidies urgently so that, in the end, they can care for all these people who need to be cared for. I agree with the Vice-President himself that we must work now and without delay to establish this necessary dialogue between the State, the autonomous communities and these entities in order to define what the model should be, to stabilize once and for all the financing model of these entities and to ensure that there is the necessary transparency and evaluation of who and why the funds are received and to what these subsidies, which we all contribute, are devoted. We insist: in view of the exceptional circumstances, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u60	Good morning, Mr. President. We add that this is necessary and that, in the times we live in, it is clear that exceptional measures must be taken and solutions sought for a third sector to which I will then refer and which, of course, is very important. But the truth is also that we see ourselves in the obligation to reflect on it. You said in your speech that there are all the entities, but they are not all. I'm sure everyone on the list deserves it, but there are many entities that aren't and also deserve it. At the end one has the doubt about what the criterion has been, why these amounts, why these are and these others are not. The greatest act of justice that could have been, which was to make it easier for these contributions to reach the third sector, can also become the most unjust act, to the extent that one does not know why his partner in the third sector is inside and another is outside. Principles like free competition, very important entities that are not on the list... It does not stop being ironic - you will allow me to tell you, that you complained so much about IBEX, BOE and companies - that in the end this option in the third sector has ended up being implemented by this way. The third sector, full of associations, foundations and NGOs working in the social field, in the educational field, in the field of equality, which manage millions of voluntary people, may have deserved to seek solutions to their care and need for money to maintain their fixed costs, but, despite this care, which also respected the attendance of all the entities, which in recent years have seen how through the capture of the IRPF they have been receiving less money. We are strong advocates of public-private collaboration. This public-private partnership in the third sector is even more important. We even bet that this goes from 0.7 to 1%. I think we'd all win. This third sector is needed because it arrives where the State does not arrive, as you raised, but there are some doubts as to whether this is the best system in terms of the articulation of multiannual agreements or how these funds can be better distributed. We are not going to put any impediments to the effect of this royal decree, but we will ask you to proceed as a bill and tell you that solutions must be sought for those entities that have been left out of this BOE list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u61	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u62	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very clear that our group is in favour of financing social interest entities with part of the resources obtained by corporation tax. These entities play a key role in the provision of services, often public, for the care of people. These entities provide added value which, due to its civil nature, has historically helped to innovate and generate new citizen demands for social and health care. Its nature as a citizen base, as well as its community and non-commercial social vocation, has generated citizen confidence towards a first-class existential fabric in areas where the Administration does not arrive directly. Thousands of entities in the Third Sector of Social Action make a daily and constant effort in the care and defence of the people and situations of social vulnerability they suffer. This is out of any kind of doubt or discussion. There is a need to establish a financing mechanism to ensure the survival of entities that combat inequalities at the foot of the cannon, and to ensure a stability horizon that allows them to work and does not remain pending every year if the next one can continue its work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we do not need to be convinced of all that. Our colleagues are flying the Department of Work Afers Socials and Families of the Generalitat de Catalunya and are in constant contact with our Table of the Third Social Sector. But you know what? This royal decree-law that is brought here today is not going to decide whether we want to allocate 0.7 % of corporate tax to social interest entities or not, because this has already been decided and is already contained in a law. The validation of a royal decree and, therefore, today's vote goes on three things: one, whether this has to be regulated or not by means of a royal decree-law; two, whether the distribution of funds has to be decided by the Government; and three, whether the recipients have to be only those included in the annex to this rule. To these three questions we find ourselves under the obligation to answer them with three noes. First no: it is not necessary to regulate it by a real decree-law because this mechanism is reserved for matters of urgency and there is a legal mandate since 2018 to legislate on 0.7% of corporation tax. Secondly, it is not the Government that has to decide who is responsible for these funds. The Generalitat de Catalunya has exclusive competence in the field of social services. They cannot violate Article 166 of the Statute and claim that we support them; they simply cannot ask for it. Thirdly, and most importantly, we are not going to endorse the list of the royal decree-law for two reasons. First of all, because it makes no sense for them to be granted exclusively to those who belong to the state registry, because in many territories, but especially in Catalonia, the most relevant entities, those that have the most social impact, are specific to Catalonia and are not part of this registry. And secondly, we cannot accept this listing being used because it is totally arbitrary. Why if it is not included, for example, the Lioness Simone Association of Beauvoir - which we do not doubt should be - but on the other hand, and for another example, is not included the Pere Tarrés Foundation? Our group is in favour of financing social interest entities with part of the resources obtained by the corporation tax, but we are not going to endorse a rule that undermines the powers of the Government of our country and, above all, we are not going to support a real decree-law that excludes and discriminates many of our third sector entities in the Catalan countries. Withdraw the royal decree and bring to the House another proposal that transfers resources to the communities, because the best person who knows reality is the best person who can manage it. So we're going to vote no to the royal decree-law but we're going to vote yes if they treat it as a bill. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u64	Thank you, President. The Spanish welfare state is characterized by some elements that are well known but that I want to put on the table. We have a mixed model, typical of the southern states, with large doses of familiarisation and with little funding compared to the European countries, especially in what we have come to call the fourth pillar, a model with a major decentralization that is typical of our autonomous state. All this puts us in the face of a complex scenario, first of all, with regard to administrative coordination, and also in the face of important challenges that we have not fully addressed in the twenty-first century: support for families, children, people in dependency or housing. The 2008 crisis also left its mark on this model, the responses of the European States during these years mark a clear trend towards the loss of citizenship - that is, the loss of rights - and a progressive remerchantization of essential sectors that severely affect people living in a vulnerable situation. In this context, for many years now, the Third Sector of Social Action has been set up as an indispensable element in the provision of welfare. We now have to add to all this the serious situation of a pandemic. The crisis generated by this coronavirus has profoundly altered the daily life of all of us and is leading us to an uncertain future with regard to when we will emerge from this crisis and also with regard to the outcome, to the future scenario; we are talking not only about a health crisis, but also about an economic and social crisis. With this crisis we are seeing the seams on the welfare state, which has weakened for a decade and dismantled all the public with cuts and more cuts. It has been twelve years since we began to suffer the consequences of this 2008 crisis and now we are facing this health emergency, which will certainly again have an impact on the population in a vulnerable situation. What is now urgent, therefore, is that we need to articulate public policies that reverse the trend towards privatization, the remerchantization of more and more sectors essential for life, the familiarization of care, and to do so we need to rely on universal and quality public services, which avoid shifting responsibility for social protection to the individual, to families or, in other words, to women. These objectives are clear to me that they are behind the dozens of measures that have been approved for months by the Vice-President of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, and in this context the importance of having a robust third sector, with the capacity to provide services and protection to the people who are worst going through it is evident. We must be aware that the reconstruction of the country and of our poor social state goes through the indispensable dialogue and collaboration between the public authorities and the Third Sector of Social Action, in order to carry out measures to prevent this crisis from falling on the same people again. For this reason, the existence and financing of this third sector is essential for the construction of a social architecture with solid foundations that will leave no one behind. This third sector has become a key element of welfare provision. It is therefore important to strengthen this third sector, that organised civil society, which is very alive, because this strengthens democratic life. We must highlight the remarkable roots and social support that all these social entities in the third sector have in general, and the administration itself at different levels and in its different rules highlights the importance of the contribution of this third sector to society as a whole. That is why we must now confront its most urgent threats and, of course, its financing, among them. We live in exceptional circumstances and it is up to the Government to use all available instruments to support these third sector entities. Hence the use of that royal decree-law, whose meaning has to do with the situation of exceptionality. In this sense, it is now necessary to make it possible to finance these sectors, in this third sector. This royal decree raises very simple elements; it aims to rapidly address the need for immediate liquidity in this third sector and to ensure that these subsidies reach these entities at all times. This funding is urgently needed at this time. With this royal decree-law, the Vice-President of Social Rights has complied with the full allocation of funding for the third sector in 2020. The financing of the third sector as a whole, as we know, comes from 0.7 of the IRPF and also from corporate tax. We have already explained that there has been an increase in funding for each and every type of association, state, autonomous and also for the Third Sector of International Cooperation and the Third Environmental Sector. Things are still to be done, of course. Changes must be made to the system of financing the third sector and must be made quickly, starting next year, and must be made with dialogue and consensus between the three main actors: the General Administration of the State, autonomous communities and entities of the third sector. We will have to see how money is distributed, we will have to give this third sector more stability, we will have to talk about transparency and we will have to talk about accountability. I am aware that the Vice-President is setting up a working group to work on these elements. I'm done. This is not the time to postpone this funding; it is the time to leave behind catastrophic, interested and partisan criticisms; it is the time to help this third sector now and thus help to minimize the negative impacts of this crisis. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u65	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u66	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Iglesias, today we come to debate a real decree which is in fact merely proof of a great failure, a failure assumed and assimilated by the Government of those who promised a social shield as never before had existed and of those who swore and perjured that they would not leave anyone behind. Today we come to discuss a decree calling upon its members to explicitly acknowledge the urgency with which we must address the terrible socio-economic consequences of a situation which is rapidly deteriorating the living conditions of our people and which has highlighted the inability of this Government to save those Spaniards who needed it most from this disaster. The fact that this Government admits in the general provisions of this decree that third-sector entities can no longer even meet the social demand they receive and that many of them are in danger of survival is the most evident proof that it has grossly failed in its duty to protect citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been months since thousands of Spaniards have had to go in line every day in front of a charity to give them rice, lentils, coffee, milk, diapers, toilet paper. In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, in the 21st century, there are citizens who spend hours waiting with a cart on the street, in many cases with their young children at their expense, sunbathing or raining. There are thousands of Spaniards who do not have a job and who do not receive anything from the State, nothing, or so little that they do not even get enough to meet their needs; thousands of Spaniards who do not receive either unemployment or minimum income or any other type of help; Spaniards who have not yet received their ERTE or who, if they have received it, is so insignificant that they do not give them or eat; Spaniards who, unfortunately, had already had to go to other times to ask for help, but also many Spaniards who had never had to do so and who only a few months before paid their expenses and lived without great luxuries, but with dignity. I'd like you to get on all those people's skin right now. Can you get an idea of how you'll feel when you hear yourself talking about expansive and progressive budgets, social shields and leaving no one behind? What will you feel when you listen to them put medals in this rostrum about how well they are doing and gloss over the virtues of minimum living income or about the success of ERTEs in protecting employment? What are you going to think about all this stuff while you're out there, in the weather, waiting for a bag of food, for some toilet paper? Ladies and gentlemen, the severe impoverishment that the Spanish population is suffering is disheartening. It is disheartening that food banks do not provide enough and that, once again, it is charitable organizations and not the State that end up saving so many citizens from hunger. It is disheartening that we have to supply with the third sector what we are not able to solve with twenty-two ministries and hundreds of advisors and high-ranking officials who earn succulent wages. And it is sad to see that those who are suffering the most from the situation that has caused this pandemic, coupled with the disastrous management of this government, are not the ones who were already receiving state aid, those who have simply been changed from one aid to another, are not the usual users of social services and charity; those who are going through a real calvary, ladies and gentlemen, are those who never thought that they would have to keep queues to eat every day, are the professionals who worked in hotels, restaurants, bars; they are autonomous, stewards, journalists, models and musicians; they are the owners of establishments that have had to close, businessmen, people whose family economy has been directly affected by the confinement, people that you have prevented them from working without giving them any alternative and who have not even had the charity to forgive their taxes. A profile of citizens who, incomprehensiblely, you have not even taken into account, a profile of citizens that is invisible to you. Invisible because you do not consider them sufficiently vulnerable and because you only help your vulnerable, those who provide so much political revenue every time there are elections, those who have already surrendered, those who have already fallen into their networks, the terrible networks of clientism, those networks from which, once you enter, it is so difficult to get out. And there they are in the queues of hunger depending on the third sector and abandoned by the state because they were not vulnerable enough to be taken into account, and while we are trying to save the third sector here to see if it can save those that the state is not able to save. Ladies and gentlemen, we are supposed to be faced with a real decree which arises at a special moment because of the enormous socio-economic needs of our population as a result of the health crisis and which is why we are going to spend almost EUR 26.5 million on nominative grants to almost 300 social sector entities, with the aim of giving them immediate liquidity so that they can contribute to the realization of projects of general interest for social purposes. That's why it's so important for us to know what the social object of those entities that collect money from the state is, it's very important to know who we're giving that money to and why we're giving that money to. Although the Government ensures that it has clearly defined the scope, objective and beneficiaries of the grants that are granted, the reality is that we do not know, because you are silent about it, what criteria have been followed and what social objectives many of the associations listed in the annex to this royal decree have been. We do not know, for example, why the Federation of Progressive Women receives more money than the Federation of Food Banks, or why large subsidies are given to dozens of women's associations that reproduce like mushrooms and take a considerable portion of the cake without knowing why or for what. How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that even in such tragic circumstances for so many citizens you will not forget to water your little bars with public money? Can you imagine what those Spaniards will feel that they do not seem to deserve any help if they knew the millions of euros they receive tens and tens of women's associations while they queue up to give them toilet paper, ladies and gentlemen? Federation of Progressive Women, EUR 196 000; Federation of Young Women, EUR 115 000; Association of Progressive Women Victoria Kent, EUR 90 000; National Confederation of Women in Equality, EUR 59 000; Association of Free and Combative Women, EUR 43 000. Frankly, if many of these associations were to be ashamed, they would have to return up to the last cent of the money they receive so that the State could use it in those who really need it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that you are the government of propaganda and the false social shield, but the third sector and its constituent entities remain, in most cases, an example of social responsibility and do not deserve to be left alone. For them and for all those anonymous people who work selflessly in each of these entities, for every Spanish volunteer who collects food in supermarkets, who makes an economic donation or in kind, who distributes food in parishes or social eateries, who puts their time at the disposal of others, for all of them we will say yes to this royal decree and we will swallow the toad of having to approve subsidies that in other circumstances we would never support, but that do not fill the slightest doubt to the Spaniards...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u67	Your Honor, you must finish. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u68	I'm done, Mr. President. Let there be no doubt to the Spaniards that we are going to ask for the agreements and the complete dossiers for which all these nominative subsidies are articulated that create us doubts, to make sure that we unearth those who have so few scruples as to continue to use public resources for their own purposes, acting selfishly and insolidaryly with those who really need it. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u69	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Prohens Rigo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Vice-President of Social Rights, today I rise to this rostrum with an orange link that we carry thousands of citizens, a link that has to remind you that you have also abandoned children with disabilities. Inclusive, yes; special, too - they beg you - and you ignore them, as well as you ignore older people. [[applause]] He abandoned them during the worst pandemic in this country: 20,268 people died in residential centers during the first wave, who have died alone and frightened. The generation that fought to leave a better Spain to your grandchildren and you have only found a hole once in your important vice president's agenda. As children do not go with you either, so for a year you have not met with children. The fact that the Baleares children do not go with you is something that is no longer worth mentioning because that shame will accompany you wherever you go. Today we have woken up with a new news: Arrested an educator from the Mallorca Institute of Social Services for abusing three boys since 2018. He was ruling. We can. Who falls, Mr. Iglesias? For the time being, the only thing that has fallen has been his lack of standing next to the most vulnerable. Once again, he has chosen to cover up the executioner instead of defending the victim. Nor does it have to say that the growing poverty of this country, the new poverty following the COVID-19, is also of little importance to you, as are the growing needs of food banks or the queues of hunger. His star announcement of the minimum income has crashed, his social shield is a social scam, not to mention that the child benefit is charged with a pen, leaving families with moderate poverty out of everything, with the opposition of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And the quilt of pasticism. The Vice-President of Social Rights does not care about the situation of the Third Sector of Social Action and now angers everyone with the real decree that we are dealing with today. It's impossible to make it worse. It distributes for the first time the help of 0.7 of societies and manages to generate consensus, consensus of all entities for how badly it does it. And you lie, Mr. Vice President. This royal decree has nothing to do with the health emergency situation as a result of the COVID. It has nothing to do with it because the so-called 'X solidarity' of companies is not an invention of theirs. The 0.7 was a measure contemplated in the general budgets of 2018, that is, in the budgets of Rajoy and Montoro, who for you were the most antisocial in history and who voted against, although they continue to rule with them today and thanks to them. It was an unprecedented measure by my colleague, Mr. Garcés, to compensate third-sector entities, on a state basis, for the loss of revenue from the IRPF since 2018, and we are in 2019 and have distributed nothing. Why? For the COVID? No, no, Because the most social government in history has taken two years to get it started. And, Mr. Churches, lack of transparency. The social dialogue with the sector has been so little that it has achieved something really sad, facing some entities with others, making them look away, divide them, or perhaps it was their intention. Urgent? On 22 June they sent a draft to the entities, on 22 July they sent the final document and the entities put themselves to work on the projects, but on 3 November, after a summer holiday, they realized that they did not arrive in time and decided to charge the competitive competition and move to the nominative subsidy; no longer, as the entities say, without clearly mentioning the objective criteria of distribution, but that these cannot be imagined, or perhaps this was what they were looking for, hurry and opacity to do what their vice president wanted, depriving the entities of being already, at this second wave, implementing these extraordinary funds. Because if the first wave wasn't with you, imagine the second wave. [[The lady]] I am not going to go into what you intend, I am convinced that most of these entities do a commendable job, although some are curious - let's leave it here - but the lack of any objectivity causes us to be asked questions. State scope of the entities? How did they rate it? Specially affected by the pandemic? If there are even documentation centers that, with all due respect, have no direct action or anything to do with COVID. Third sector of social action? By giving in precisely here ecological entities or the scope of cooperation, social entities calculate in millions their losses and leave behind entities that have had to face expenses for PPE and testing, which care for more people than ever before or work with vulnerable groups. All this has happened while you promised EUR 1 billion of the EUR 16,000 of the COVID Fund in May, of which, Mr Iglesias, you have not reached a single euro in the social sector. Because you, Mr. Iglesias - who is very focused on your mobile phone - do not like social policies and do not care or have time for them. You're not in this, Mr. Vice President. Your portfolio is of social rights, but you are fulfilling your own agenda and the agenda of this government: the dialogue table with independenceists, the leadership of the state with Bildu, the convictions of your accumulating party, investigations for illegal financing, SIMs and crimes for gender aggravation. Too bad the third sector isn't a party that wants to end the regime or a series of Netflix, because then I'm sure it would have a hole in its agenda. For this reason, the People's Party presents a plan B in the general budgets to support this sector with more facts than banners. We intend to restrict corporation tax to the Third Sector of Social Action, as they themselves ask; 71 million of the increase in high-ranking positions to child poverty; 2 million for impulse of entities; a special social fund COVID non-refundable; 10% more for all entities and associations working in the various fields of social rights and the addition of 478 million euros to a residential model of person-centred care. Despite, Mr Iglesias, the evening and the bad, today we are going to abstain from responsibility with many of the entities that are going to receive these funds and because the solidarity box that the People's Party has launched is a good measure, badly managed by you. We will ask for its processing as a bill so that this year's chaos does not happen again, to define how we want this aid to be, and to discuss the financing of the third sector in the medium and long term. I have just given sincere thanks, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, for the unpayable work of the Third Sector of Social Action because, as a representative of the Third Sector of Social Action told me a few days ago, which you have not received, we have reached where the Government and the private sector cannot get there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Prohens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Guerra López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u72	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech today by thanking you. Thanks to everyone and all social service professionals, and thanks today, especially, to workers in the third sector; to those who struggle every day to prevent a family from cutting off light, water or gas; to those who manage food banks to ensure the food sufficiency of everyone, especially of boys and girls; to those who accompany our elders to cope with the unwanted loneliness; to those who arrange housing to make it accessible to a person with disabilities; to those who deal with teleassistance; to those who help pay rent or mortgage; to those who cover educational needs; to those who accompany employment; to those who seek residential resources for homeless people; and, yes, to those who also care for women victims of gender-based violence and their children and their daughters. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] To each and every one of them, thank you, thank you and thank you! Thank you for making it viable with your daily work that no one stays behind. Because it says what the bench says of the right and the right, this decree-law goes from the right to have rights; from the right to have rights, regardless of our family of origin, our neighborhood, our school, our work and our abilities; from the right to have rights independently of all this, and for that we need resources, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, we need political will. Political will such as that of this Government, which in the midst of the pandemic decided not to fight the health crisis alone and exclusively, but to do so also against the economic and social crisis resulting from the COVID. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party and VOX, the Government today presents this royal decree, which provides for urgent measures to support the entities of the Third Sector of Social Action at the state level. We already know that they don't like it; it's more, it's normal that they don't like it. You are the ones of the years of cuts, you are the ones who increase the rates of poverty and social exclusion and you are the ones who, in the midst of the pandemic, decide to give to the boys and girls junk food. It's normal that they don't like it. [[Applauds]] One thing I must admit: with you, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, we approved the Act on the Third Sector of Social Action - we recognize it, with you we approved it - but you did not implement it. And this government is prepared to carry out regulatory development, because you did nothing while you were ruling. Well, I'm sorry, something they did and was adding an additional fourth provision to that law, which I quote in text: The regulation included in this law will not be able to imply an increase in public expenditure or an increase in endowments, salaries or other personnel costs. I translate it for you to understand: with you the entities of the Third Sector of Social Action would have seen zero increase in their revenues in the midst of the pandemic. [[Applauds]] Moreover, I dare to hope that some would have cut them off. And you dare to go up to this atrium and say that you defend and talk to the entities of the third sector, really? Well, look, no. [[Rumors]] The third sector and social services, in general, are of little interest to you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, to say nothing, because nothing is of interest to you working and humble families in this country. And I don't say that, the Socialist Parliamentary Group doesn't say that, do you remember the gospel? By their works you will know them. By the cuts of Mariano Rajoy and José María Aznar we know you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Not to mention the Majadahonda floors. Look, I'll give you a detail. Imagine if you are of little interest to third-sector entities that defend you only when you are in opposition. The Public System of Social Services - the public system, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, because for us the third sector is part of the Public System of Social Services - must always be defended, in opposition but especially when governed. How? As the Government does today, presenting this royal decree for approval, which bothers you so much. What exactly displeases you, that the Government allocates more than EUR 26 million to third-sector entities, or maybe that EUR 26 million to third-sector entities goes to the people who need it most? We are faced with an extraordinary situation and this Government gives extraordinary answers, offering emergency solutions that ensure the viability and sustainability of third-sector entities working in the territory, along with social services, making our towns and cities places and spaces for coexistence, inclusion and social cohesion. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, urgent decisions for situations that have arisen, but without losing sight of the strategy. Because this Government does not forget that it is also urgent to strengthen the Public System of Social Services, because this Government does not forget that it is also urgent, ladies and gentlemen, to have a common social services law, with a common service portfolio that ensures equal opportunities for all Spaniards and all Spaniards, regardless of where they live, and because this Government is committed to developing the law of the Third Sector of Social Action. [[applause]] I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, do you know what the worst thing is? That you, from the first moment on, instead of holding your shoulder in the fight against the pandemic, decided that the worst, the better; you decided to exercise a completely irresponsible opposition, whoever falls, including the entities of the third sector. But we are not going to allow it, because the political forces that make up this government are going to work side by side with local, autonomous and state social services, and we are going to build a protection network for each and every Spanish. I assure you that we are going to leave the skin so that nobody stays behind, I assure you that we are going to leave the skin so that everyone has the right to have rights. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. War. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, having concluded the vote on the amendments to the Commission's opinion on the draft organic law amending Organic Law 2/2006 of 3 May 2006 on Education, I would like to announce that the following amendments have been adopted: firstly, the compromise amendment No 5 to Amendments 285 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sabanes, and 443 of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví. Secondly, technical corrections 1 to 5, tabled by the Socialist Group. I should also like to inform you that the voting time for the particular votes cast on the report on the evaluation and reform of the Toledo Pact has also been completed and that none of them have been adopted. The joint result of the votes for those amendments and individual votes shall be published on the website of the House, in accordance with the usual procedure, and shall be annexed to the record of this sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that, from 12:15 to 14:00 today, the rest of the outstanding items on the agenda will be voted on by telematics. The vote on all these matters will take place at the end of the sitting. I should also like to inform you that this plenary session has included the discussion and adoption of the opinion of the draft organic law amending the Organic Law 2/2006 of 3 May on Education. As an organic law, this initiative must be put to a final vote, which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. That is why, in compliance with this provision, I announce that the votes will not take place before 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u74	We continue with the agenda. Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 32/2020 of 3 November, adopting complementary social measures for the protection of unemployment and support for the cultural sector. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u75	With the venom. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, culture is necessary, it is a right. Culture is safe, it's a certainty. These are two strong ideas that I am convinced that we share all the groups in this House. As you know, I am bringing to this House for validation, if you consider it appropriate, Royal Decree-Law 32/2020 of 3 November, approving supplementary social measures for the protection of unemployment and support for the cultural sector. It potentially covers some 275 000 people, with a total and maximum economic impact of EUR 180 million. Culture, ladies and gentlemen, can be described in three ways, all of a singular importance. Firstly, as a right of individuals, both in their creation - in the creation of culture - and in universal access to it, i.e. from the point of view of creators and artists as well as of receiving citizens and consumers. Secondly, culture is also a wealth-generating and employment-generating industry. In our country, in 2019, culture accounted for 3.4% of GDP, including copyright and intellectual property rights, and employed more than 700,000 people. And thirdly, culture has a qualitative and axiological dimension as a set of values, experiences, languages, traditions and stories that make up a particular community, a community, a nation, Europe or even the whole of humanity, the civilized humanity of which Fernando Pessoa spoke. In all three senses, culture has been severely hit by the pandemic. This has hampered universal access by the confinement and limitation of mobility following the state of alarm and by reduced public spaces, both necessary for health and problematic for shows and cultural events. This has been an obvious and objective injury to the cultural industries as a whole, with unprecedented economic and labour damage. The pandemic has also called into question our system of values, introducing uncertainties, mistrust, rift, fears and even widespread fear in society, a feeling of deep vulnerability to a global pandemic that has been unprecedented in a hundred years, with very serious economic and social effects. Other values have also emerged - I think it is good to highlight this - that we must strengthen and promote such as solidarity, the priority of life, health and culture, and the relevance of the institutions and structures of the social and democratic rule of law, which is a true guarantee of our rights within a framework of legal certainty, certainty, predictability and social justice. From the Government we have tried to face the three challenges that affect the three senses of culture. We have protected from unemployment, for the first time in history, artists from public spectacles and now technicians and workers with auxiliary tasks, which are fundamental to sustaining the structures and value chain. In these months we have guaranteed universal access to culture with the digitization of our museums, of the INAEM or of the ICAA, with the project 'Culture in your home' or through an agreement with Correos, which we will sign in the next few days, to bring the culture to all people, to all the houses, especially the people who have the most difficulties of access, such as sick, elderly people or rural Spain, also reducing the costs to bookstores. At the same time, we provide liquidity, through soft loans, to businesses and SMEs in all cultural sectors. First, with the ICO, introducing recently - before yesterday, in the last Council of Ministers - new measures to relieve the financial burdens and, specifically, through CREA for all cultural sectors; and we also understand that it was necessary to generate direct aids or tax incentives for the performing arts, cinema, audiovisual, fine arts or book. In short, comprehensive and comprehensive economic measures to try to save our country's cultural and creative industries. Without culture, with capital, there is no subjective right to culture. We have also considered it essential to underline the axiological dimension of culture, the foundation of free and well-ordered societies and the guarantee of progress, freedom and peace. Culture as civilization, as a set of values, rules and principles that guide us in the face of crises, that give us a priori certainties to know what we are dealing with and that favor a life worthy of all people, beings of ends that cannot be treated as means and that have no price, I would say Kant. Also as norms that favor mutual respect, civic friendship and the definitive eradication of Carl Schmitt's friend-enemy dialectic. We will, by the way, also enjoy in this House that culture as a civilization, as a respect, that I would say Don Fernando de los Ríos. The General Budgets of the State project for 2021, together with the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience of the Spanish economy, reinforces these three dimensions of culture, looking to the future and considering it from now on as an essential pillar of the welfare state, of our constitutional democracy and of the catalogue of basic rights of citizens. But let's go back to the specific object of my presence here today. As you will recall, on 11 March, the World Health Organization raised an unprecedented health crisis to the international pandemic, which has spread extremely rapidly and has been characterized by the harshness of its consequences, to which this Government, as you know, responded with forceful measures and with a firm commitment not to leave anyone behind. The evolution of the pandemic required us to adopt additional measures to cushion the socio-economic effects of the health crisis. All were and are marked by the social accent with which this Government has faced the difficult situation created, always, I insist, ladies and gentlemen, at the service of rescuing people, human beings, rights. Thus, in Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 of 17 March, only three days after the first state of alarm, measures were adopted concerning those known as ERTE, as well as extraordinary measures of protection for unemployment and contributions. The necessary mechanisms for the protection of self-employed workers were also implemented with the cessation benefit. These measures have recently been extended by Royal Decree-Law 30/2020 of 29 September of social measures in defence of employment. And already last May we recognized the specificity of the cultural sphere and the need to adopt specific measures for it, complementary to the general ones, so the Royal Decree-Law 17/2020 of 5 May, validated by this House, was approved. EUR 76.5 million was allocated to aid to companies and professionals in the sector, as well as the putting into circulation of EUR 780 million in soft loans guaranteed to provide liquidity to companies for their survival and the maintenance of employment. It should be noted that in the same legal text, the Government created for the first time extraordinary access to unemployment benefits for cultural workers. Men and women of culture, ladies and gentlemen, face difficulties in access to such a benefit caused by the conspicuous interference with the nature of their work. They try a lot, they work a lot, but it doesn't count. We will definitely solve it with the status of the artist. Meanwhile, as we are in the midst of an intense second wave of the pandemic, which is prolonging the crisis situation, it is necessary to adopt additional and new measures and new decisions for the protection and support of workers. It is therefore essential and urgent now to take certain decisions guaranteeing such protection, especially for those hardest hit by the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, under the same political prism that has marked the action of this government since the beginning of the crisis, this royal decree-law, whose validation we submit to the plenary, is also aimed at rescuing people and alleviating the serious socio-economic situation caused by the duration of the pandemic. Once again, along with maintaining the productive fabric, people must be at the centre of our policies. In the specific case of culture, the implementation of the measures adopted in May highlighted that there was still a group of workers in the sector who, because of their special characteristics, also had difficulty accessing the aid. The Government, through the relevant ministries, carried out a comprehensive and cross-cutting task. The talks were intensified and uniquely from the Ministries of Labour and Social Economy, Inclusion and Social Security and Culture and Sport, with the cooperation of the Treasury and the Council of Ministers as a whole, we have set up a system of protection which will also benefit them. The Government has made it possible for the target groups of the aid provided for in this legal text to include the most vulnerable cultural technicians and workers in the Tauromaquia, in addition to the public performing artists in the extension of their services; among the three groups, some 47 000 people. Ladies and gentlemen, the measures incorporated in the Royal Decree-Law, which is now subject to validation in this House, clearly fulfil the requirement of extraordinary and urgent necessity, which allows access to this legal instrument, because its objective is nothing other than to guarantee the social protection of those workers, particularly those in the cultural sector, who were either not covered by the specific instruments previously approved or were close to losing such coverage, in a context in which the second wave of the pandemic has forced to adopt containment measures that, more or less intensely, depending on the territories, restrict economic activity. With this decree we close the protection circle, covering all sectors and groups in need at least until 31 January. Allow me now, ladies and gentlemen, to turn briefly to the main content of this rule, the validation of which is subject to your consideration. The first chapter of the Royal Decree-Law contains the necessary and general extraordinary measures of unemployment protection. Important social measures adopted since the beginning of the pandemic in the area of unemployment protection need to be complemented to ensure coverage of all vulnerable groups. They are gaps that have not had to do with our will, but with the characteristics or singularities in the workplace of some collectives. In addition to these cases, which we will discuss later, we are faced with the situation of those who during the state of alarm and later were receiving unemployment benefits and have exhausted them, without access to other aids and, more importantly, without even having the possibility of joining the world of work for objective or force majeure reasons. The restrictions on mobility to deal with the health emergency and the cessation of activity in certain productive sectors are these objective causes, not attributable to these people. As a result of the intense process of social dialogue, the Ministry of Labour, with Minister Yolanda Díaz at the head, in permanent contact with trade unions and business associations, agreed to establish a special subsidy of an extraordinary nature to respond to this situation which is incorporated in article 1 of this royal decree-law. This subsidy is intended for people who meet certain requirements, around 230 000 people. The requirements are as follows: to be unemployed and registered as a claimant of the same in SEPE; to have extinguished between 14 and 30 June 2020 the benefit, i.e. between the start of the state of alarm and the so-called descaled; to have no right to unemployment protection and not to be beneficiaries of minimum income, inclusion income, social wage or similar aid. As you know, the entitlement to a grant will last 90 days, will not be received on more than one occasion and will be born the day following the application. The amount shall be 80% of the monthly public multi-effect income indicator in force at each time, the so-called Iprem. This is undoubtedly a measure of social justice and solidarity, which dignifies us as a society and as a country. Thank you, Minister Yolanda. If it seems to you, I now turn to the second chapter of this royal decree-law, which contains specific measures for the cultural sector. I will briefly review the content of your articles before the House. Culture, ladies and gentlemen, continues to suffer the consequences of the crisis and the constraints agreed upon to deal with it. Some of its own characteristics, such as its high dependence on the public, on the spectators, as well as on intermittent work, have made these effects manifest in this sector with special cruelty, and everything despite the fact that we have made a great effort, especially the professionals of culture, to realize that strong idea with which I started my intervention: culture is safe and necessary. I'm going into details, ladies and gentlemen. As I pointed out earlier, one of the most important measures taken in Royal Decree-Law 17/2020 was extraordinary unemployment access for public performing artists. This service, unprecedented until then, allows up to 35 000 of these artists not to be left without any coverage, not to be left out of the weather, because to the consequences of the evolution of the pandemic must be added the expiration of the benefits regulated in that royal decree, provided for 120 or 180 days, depending on the days of activity in the year preceding the entry into force of the Royal Decree of 14 March, which declared the state of alarm. The Government has at this time considered it essential to ensure the protection of these workers, which is indispensable in order to give effect to the obligation of the public authorities to guarantee the access of all citizens to culture, but also in order to ensure the fabric, the muscle of cultural enterprises and industries, in short, the right to culture in its two senses or projections. In this way, we have extended until 31 January 2021 the extraordinary access to the unemployment benefit of artists in public performances collected in the Royal Decree-Law 17/2020, and this applies to all the collectives of this decree. This benefit will be incompatible with the carrying out of activities on its own or for others, as well as with the collection of any other public income. The amount is the same for all unemployment assistance, 70% of the regulatory base for the first 180 days and 50% thereafter. Once the right to benefit has been granted, the benefit shall be suspended while the holder of the benefit performs a work for himself or herself, without prejudice to the possibility that it may be resumed later for the remainder of the period of perception. As you can see, we have taken into account the uniqueness of intermittence, almost structural, for example, in performing arts and music. It's a fair standard and a very thoughtful one. And I would also like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, the urgency of this measure. The Government has acted with promptness and determination, since without it all public performing artists who have been able to access the benefit so far would be left without any coverage. We talk about actors and actresses, dancers and dancers, dancers and dancers, that is, flamenco, or musicians. Secondly, we believe that the protection of other workers who, because of the peculiarities of the performance of their profession, have serious difficulties in benefiting from the general coverage mechanisms should be implemented. It is the case of persons who provide technical services essential for the performance and cultural activities to take place. These professionals participate of the same intermittentness and lack of self-continuity the artists. That is why the Royal Decree-Law recognises that, since they cannot access ordinary unemployment benefits, we must urgently articulate, and we do, a mechanism that makes their perception possible. We therefore recognise an exceptional unemployment benefit for the technical and auxiliary staff in the cultural sector who have provided their services temporarily on behalf of others. It was the main demand, as you will remember, for red alert, and we are thinking about the workers of sound, lighting, hairdressing, clothing, etc. Like the above-mentioned benefit, this allowance is incompatible with the performance of self-employment or full-time work, as well as with the collection of any minimum income, inclusion income, social pay or similar aid granted by any public administration. However, like all unemployment benefits, it is compatible with the performance of part-time work, in which case the proportion proportional to the time worked shall be deducted from its amount. Beneficiaries must comply with certain requirements, such as being registered as applicants for employment in SEPE, not being self-employed or employed on a full-time basis, etc. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, you must certify from 1 August 2019 until the date of entry into force of this rule a period of employment listed in the General Social Security Scheme of at least thirty-five days in companies in the cultural sector that you have not calculated for the recognition of an earlier right. Thirdly, as your ladies and gentlemen also know, the Turkish professionals have suffered very directly from the consequences of this crisis. Initially they were affected by the suspension of activities carried out in Taurine squares, enclosures and installations and then by the measure of containment and limitations agreed by the health authorities, although from the minute one - I would like to remind you -, thinking about the summer and the season, even with the restrictions of focus of all public shows, we took them into account in the process of descalation and of new normality. These limitations have also been extended during the months in which usually the greatest number of celebrations takes place and, therefore, during the period of greatest activity for these workers. This has therefore made it impossible for them to work and contribute what is necessary to generate entitlement to unemployment benefits. To this must be added the specificity of the calculation of the days of contribution, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 1986, which integrates the special regimes of certain workers, including the Taurines, into the General Social Security Regime. The Government has therefore considered it extraordinary and urgent to take measures to safeguard the situation of the most vulnerable workers, simple people, workers in this sector who also need our help. Thus, the Royal Decree-Law recognizes extraordinary access to the unemployment benefit for these professionals. This right extends until 31 January 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, finally, the Royal Decree-Law includes two additional provisions with complementary measures in line with the already pointed out to strengthen the protection mechanisms enabled and to facilitate access to them in such difficult circumstances as we are facing. Thus, on the one hand, the need to certify the active search for employment for access to the active income of insertion or to the extraordinary unemployment benefit is eliminated, as long as the stagnation in some sectors of economic and business activity and the procedures for temporary regulation of employment due to force majeure derived from COVID-19 continue to be in place. On the other hand, the duration of the unemployment benefit for permanent workers is adapted to the particularities in which their activity is carried out and to the circumstances arising from COVID-19, so that, for the sole purpose of determining their duration, the periods which, if not for the pandemic, would have been of activity, including those during which they received contributory or assistance level unemployment protection, shall be regarded as contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the health crisis situation, as well as the need to maintain and strengthen public measures and support for both workers in general and those in the cultural sector in particular, are part of the case described in Article 86.1 of the Constitution. For all the reasons I have explained to you, because of the exceptional situation we are experiencing and because it is essential to continue to protect workers, individuals and their families, I call today for your support for the validation of this royal decree-law. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no better agenda than that of civic friendship and solidarity. Both save us from the Cainite confrontation and social selfishness and give us that tranquillity of conscience of duty fulfilled by having helped those who needed it and when they needed it. You're a genius, you're a pax. Let us not just aspire to coexist; let us aspire to live together, or, rather, to share. All the people protected here are citizens, they are Spanish, human beings who need our support. Let's not let them down. Let's not fail them. Eskerrik asko, many graces, many graces, many thanks. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Culture and Sport. As stated in the always accurate Journal of Sessions, I have denounced from this rostrum throughout the pandemic the continued use and abuse that the Council of Ministers makes of the path of the royal decree-law, a legal tool that has restricted freedoms and paralysed the economic pulse of society. The legislative instruments empowered by the Government to combat the pandemic have not achieved their health or economic purpose. With legal guidelines for dealing with the serious effects of COVID-19 at once, you decided from the very first moment to fight the virus by paralysing the activity of Spain, following the unfortunate mantra in which you have continued to insist that health is the first thing, as if in thesesitures such as this could be limited the battle fronts to a single area, however essential it was. As is the case even in wartime, the nations affected must continue to function in the rear, even at a lower rate, but what has never been seen is to stop the pulse of a society completely, in addition to doing so through unconstitutional means, because I have already heard for months insisting in this rostrum on the unfortunate nature of the legal instrument chosen to restrict our freedoms. Mr Rodríguez Uribes, we now see ourselves in the thesis of restoring the economic wounds that have left this unfortunate way of dealing with the problem, because it must be remembered that the measures or limitations adopted on activities for health reasons by article 54.3 of Law 33/2011 of 4 October, General de Saúde Pública, should have respected the principle of proportionality, that is, to be proportionate, something that did not happen here, but decided to stop the country's march altogether. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, these are not forms. This morning we find another sign of a pernicious practice which seeks to circumvent the main function of Parliament, with the users of the blue bank putting laws to the remanguillé and also showing unequal treatment, because, although there have been no groups not affected by this closure of the country to tackle the pandemic unsuccessfully, by covering the measures to all of them, there are surprisingly specific cases, such as those that we are dealing with today, linked to the cultural world and bullion, worth redundancy, which, without a doubt, have suffered and suffer a frightening situation, as well as many others that are not covered by this norm. Why not talk about self-employed, merchants, hoteliers or liberal professionals? Why are all these guilds or individuals worse off for the government? Normative that is even worse than previous ones, that is, when once again, of rondón, pose questions that are unrelated, in case of several additional provisions, that have nothing to do with the culture or the bull. Once again, we must insist that the drafting of a royal decree-law is reserved for an extraordinary and urgent need. But the government, contrary to what you have said, Minister, is trying to limit parliamentary intervention, due and restful debate to the members of this House and the Senate, and on top of that is issues that have little or nothing to do with the health crisis. Never count on my vote for mature government against the General Courts. In short, unconstitutional, disproportionate, raccoon regulation with the culture and the bull sector, which you corner, when you do not despise; regulation which also postpones the critical situation of workers from other sectors and trade unions, who are very much in need of protection and solidarity measures, so I will vote, Madam President, against validation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u79	Thank you, President. Egun on. Minister, this royal decree comes to correct one of the shortcomings we observed in the previous one, and we pointed out it in your day from this very rostrum in those days of the beginning of the state of alarm, when the cultural one was one of the sectors that helped and relieved the population to get out of that shock situation in which we were and at the same time was one of the forgotten sectors. The Royal Decree-Law 17/2020 came to some extent to alleviate the disaster that we already saw looming over the sector and at that time we recognized the good measures taken for cinematography, the book sector or the performing arts, but we noticed the obvious shortcomings it contained. We said that many, many professionals in the artistic and cultural fields remained unprotected, since the decree was only applicable to those who were discharged into the general regime of public performing artists, and we stressed that the technicians and assistants who suffered the same consequences of the crisis were legion and could not, however, benefit from the aid. Now, this decree creates a new coverage that will allow them to benefit for the first time from unemployment benefit. They are assistants of choreography, cameras, technicians of light and sound, technicians of stage assembly, drivers, all those invisible people who work between scenes and which, however, is essential for culture to radiate in society. Culture is an important sector not only because it contributes 3.2% to gross domestic product, but above all because it cannot be quantified, because without culture there is no progress, because without culture there is no development and because without culture there is no society. It is an indispensable sector, very exalted at times, very well recognized when they mediate events or far-reaching events, but, instead, it does not have as much weight or as much capacity to press as others. It is a sector that suffers intermittent abandonment from the institutions and is therefore undervalued, because still in the social scaffolding that builds the institutional reality persists the idea that the world of culture is something of second order, not a good of first necessity. However, culture must be recognized as an essential asset, as we have proposed in an initiative that we hope will soon be endorsed by this House. Culture and art still do not have the consideration of basic and necessary work in this State. That stigma that relativizes its importance is still maintained, and yet it needs to be dignified. That is why culture - we have seen it many times - lacks the ability to press that it does have other sectors, and the clearest example is, regrettably, in this same decree, in which the Tauromaquia, of rondón, has been included in the aid to the cultural sector, within that line open to companies dedicated to the beautiful arts. Fine arts, Minister: you put all the aid here, in the middle of this totum revolution, and include tauromaquia in a fourth changed to paste aid that, by the way, more and more sectors of Basque society, of state society and any advanced society question. Culture has nothing to do with the animal sacrifice for the delight of some people in a square, as well as other customs of my country, such as those raised with live geese that were made in Lekeitio, or the fights of rams in so many peoples of Euskal Herria, customs and customs of another era that, fortunately, have disappeared. And of course the novilleros, the bannerlers, the swordmen, the subordinates, as workers who are, must be compensated for their situation, of course they are, but, Minister, seek their accommodation elsewhere, protect those workers in that sector in their corresponding place, not in a decree of culture. Because animal sacrifice is neither art nor culture. Some will say that it is tradition and culture, and yes, culture includes traditions among other aspects, but not precisely as a building block. If something characterizes culture, it is something alive, a task that is being done, that is moving and building over time. There is a phrase - which is not mine, but it's one of those phrases that you keep engraved in a corner of memory, they stay there - that I think fits perfectly with what this debate could sum up: If bullfights were art, cannibalism would be gastronomy. I don't know who said it, but it's true. I know that in this Chamber there are those who will not agree, but the least we can say today about the feast of bulls is that it is out of season. Whether in his day it was an art or not, I will not defend it, but, in any case, if it was art, it was an art of the past, and tradition, yes, but a tradition that no longer fits into this world in which we live. Those who are excited about the cufflinks, the veronicas, the natural ones and the long ones, will not care anything if I mention to them the UNESCO, if I mention to them the Universal Declaration of the Rights of Animals, but who take into account that supporting the defense of bullfights is manifestly incompatible with what these organisms and these declarations say, and much less with it being sponsored as a cultural factor at this time. Courage, irony, all that his defenders say surrounds the world of bullfighting, his ministry has not proved it. This Government is not courageous in choosing the right path and has therefore been subjected to the pressures of this anachronistic world and has included in this decree something that is out of place. He has not chosen his walk well and by not choosing well he forces us to choose, forces us to accept something with which we disagree and at the same time hangs something with which we totally disagree. Including aid to the Taurus sector in a cultural decree is not welcome, so to speak, it does not have a pass. That is why we will abstain from this decree and support it as a bill. We will table an amendment that separates what is culture and what is not culture, and we hope that the progressive majority in this House will support it in this way. Eskerrik asko, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u80	Thank you, ma'am, Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u81	Thank you, Madam President. I'm not going to stretch out or stretch out too much. The Basque intellectual and linguistic badge Koldo Mitxelena said:, that would be something like: not what I want but what we need. [[his intervention in Basque continues]] It seems to me to be an important reflection because it underlies that need to replace selfish self with collective self and desire for necessity. I believe that at this moment when the pandemic has so much attacked precisely culture, regardless of whether it is something I want, it is something we need. And the support that we in that collective in which culture without us has no possibility, because it is an excessively weak sector to be forgotten, I think it is substantial that situations like those we have lived and continue to live in need of such coverage and support, regardless of whether the actual decree is better or worse, whether we are totally in agreement or not, contemplate or do not contemplate everything that should be contemplated or contemplate things that perhaps should not be. In any case, the situation resulting from the pandemic has caused culture to be in a very complicated situation, one of the most affected, as you, Minister, and other speakers have said and are going to say, because the pandemic in turn, regardless of the unfavourable economic situation it has generated, has changed the way of creating and consuming. Perhaps it has been an adaptation to the situation, which is another of the capacities of the human being, adequacy and resilience. However, we welcome the possibility of providing, assisting and accommodating both in terms of time and in terms of quantities and sectors for those who have remained outside the real decree of May, which we are debating and supporting in this House. Also - I will repeat words that I said when the previous royal decree was validated -, we cannot forget that, regardless of the urgency of this decree and its content, many activities and ways of creating or spreading are precarious, with difficulty in sustaining themselves, needing their own push, because the cultural and artistic fact itself lacks normality, lacks stability, because its characteristics are so. And this decree reflects - also this - the legal, fiscal and social protection vacuum in which there are many professionals of culture and art. It reflects the need for self-covering which, unfortunately, we do not yet have. If I repeat that the solution is the status of the artist, you will tell me: Yes, but not only. Obviously. This pandemic situation would have been a problem with or without the artist's status, but I say to him that, in relation to certain modifications that have had to be made and certain situations that have had to be solved, at least we would have known where to go if we had had the status of the developed artist. You promised us, Minister, that long before this legislature was over, we would have it. Much work has been done in this House to ensure that this can be done and that legal tool is urgently needed. The compromise I don't know how we'll have to get it out of him, but it's about time that that was present among us. You've let him down in your speech. He said we'll settle this with the artist's statute. If that is the tool that will solve many of the situations that today we have to solve on the basis of real decrees, it is time for it to start. It is urgent and necessary and it is also a solution. Let's not talk about what you already know and have talked about. The cultural ecosystem itself has characteristics and without employment, without sustainable economic activity, the sector as a whole can hardly be sustainable and it is about generating quality work opportunities in terms of working conditions and equal opportunities. I referred to the previous time that I came to the Basque Observatory of Culture saying that the origin of the different problems lies in the special characteristics of this work: the eventuality and heterogeneity of the collective. These are two important principles. This decree also tries to solve those gaps that the decree of May could not, but it is that until the decree of May there was also a kind of vacuum that caused some people to stay out. We all know the problem of the situation. The Basque Aktoreen Batasuna, the Basque Actors Association, wrote a letter in which it made it very clear: We are not sure how long we work, but we are discharged on the day we do the function. And, of course, on March 15 all functions, all activities fell, so everything we had committed does not count us, it does not record. What do we do about that weed? We know that this is a very complicated situation and I hope that these groups will be given the answer they need, the corresponding answer, because, of course, they had to pull out of their own unemployment and that ends. That's over. Also other collectives - I am finishing, Madam President - have been included in this decree. Obviously, all that sector needed for others to believe, stage, act, sing, etc. They have been said from the one who illuminates to the one who records, from the one who decorates to the one who sounds; all that must be contemplated, obviously, and is not. On the Tauromaquia I will only say that we believe that it should not be in this decree. I've said it more than once, why is it within culture? Because in this House it was decided that it was a cultural good. And why was it decided that it was a cultural good? For a matter of political strategy, that is, because until then it had been legislated from the autonomous communities and, how can we make sure that the autonomous communities do not decide whether or not there are bulls in that autonomous community? Raising it up, bringing it up to the category of cultural good and so the State decides what needs to be done. That is what was done here, a trap so that in certain autonomous communities their authorities could not decide whether or not there are bulls, whether you like them or not, whether they are for or against them.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u82	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u83	I'm done, Madam President. Therefore, we will support this decree because we believe that it is necessary for the people who are included to have these aids and to be able to return to a minimally dignified situation within their activity. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u85	Thank you, President. Good morning, good morning, minister. Today the different spokespersons have managed to mix in the debate of this royal decree a number of issues that, as has already been said here by some other spokesman, are a totum revolutionutum, but they all revolve around a core that is economic crisis and unemployment. You know that, but I'm going to repeat it in this rostrum. This economic crisis in which we are subsumed is a drama, it is a drama that has revealed different international entities, the last one the International Monetary Fund, which said that Spain would not create jobs again until 2026. Today we have more than half a million people who have lost their jobs during this crisis and have not yet recovered it, and if this continues, we will have twice as many jobs in the next year. I have also said on several occasions from this rostrum that the situation is critical, so it is imperative that we continue to prepare measures to sustain and protect employment. But, in addition, we also have to respond to those who have already lost their job and cannot find another or a new one because of the pandemic restrictions. This Royal Decree 32/2020 provides for a series of very concrete measures which the Minister has explained and detailed and which are divided into two blocks. A first block includes in a single article the creation of a special unemployment benefit. It is particularly important because it is addressed to those persons who have exhausted the contributory or assistance unemployment benefits to which they were entitled between 14 March and 30 June, provided that they were not entitled to apply for any of the above and were not beneficiaries of the minimum living income or of any minimum income for the integration of the Autonomous Communities. This measure seems appropriate to us, ladies and gentlemen, because it allows access to immediate social protection for those who were unemployed during the first state of alarm and who, since then, between the confinement and the second wave, have not been able to look for or find work. However, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this aid is very short for a number of reasons. Firstly, the temporary margin they propose is very limited because only the unemployed are affected from 14 March to 30 June. What about the people who lost their jobs at the beginning of March, when it was becoming increasingly clear that the pandemic was beginning to spread? And what about the people who lost their jobs after the state of alarm ended? Would it not make more sense, ladies and gentlemen, to establish a wider time frame if what is really wanted is to help those who have lost their jobs in this health crisis? Secondly, in this first block and this single article of special measures for unemployment, the requirements for access to this aid directly exclude thousands of temporary workers, the famous temporary workers; in particular, all those who did not generate entitlement to the contributory benefit or unemployment benefit, because what you are asking for as a requirement is that the worker has exhausted his benefits, not that he has become unemployed within the temporary scope of the subsidy. A worker with a temporary contract of less than twelve months does not generate any entitlement to unemployment benefit, and a worker with a contract of less than six months does not generate any entitlement to unemployment benefit unless he has family responsibilities. All those who do not fall into any of these assumptions are left out of these aids; that is, you consciously forget vulnerable workers. And not only do they refuse to allow all workers to be indefinite, as citizens repeatedly ask, but above all they continue to harm the weakest, who are temporary workers. Well, as I said before, this royal decree contains two blocks, that was the first, and the second block includes measures for the cultural sector. It is a sector that has suffered a great deal from the coup of the coronavirus, a very important sector in our country, which is the essence and soul of what we were and what we are. Culture, ladies and gentlemen, is a fundamental pillar for our progress and development as a society and cannot be perceived as superfluous or dispensable luxury. We cannot leave behind our creators, nor our artists precisely in these times when their art and their creations have been more helpful to us in the worst of confinement, when with generosity, responsibility and detachment many made their works available to the common in a free and accessible way. Ladies and gentlemen, culture is knowledge, culture is tradition and avant-garde, culture is history and it is the history of the human being in this world, and we cannot continue to leave it to his fate. The sector has claimed this, it has literally denounced that they are starving, and the response from the government - I am very sorry to say this but we have been moved, Minister - has been timid measures and often an absent minister. For all this, I would advance you that we will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, but we will ask for its processing as a bill in order to be able to improve it through amendments. We cannot lower our guard, but neither can we accommodate the hardness of the times and forget the artistic and cultural sector. If our citizens and professionals are not doing so, neither can the Government afford to lower its arms. So let us be ambitious, think big and talk for history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u87	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I am forced to make a conceptual precision because I have listened to the gentlemen of the right bench this morning shouting: freedom!, freedom! and I am forced to make a conceptual precision that we would have to do many times from this rostrum. It is a very simple difference: if in order to be able to choose you depend on the money you have, it is not freedom, it is privilege; where there is privilege, there is no freedom; there is freedom where there are rights for everyone, have the money they have in their pocket. [[Applauds]] Today you bring, Minister, a decree which is of a failed subject, of a pending subject, and not of your Government, also of our country. The COVID has made it rain over wet and that what was wrong is now fatal. We warned him at the beginning of the alarm states in March and April, we tabled amendments to Decree 17/2020 in May and today we express concern. The sector is sinking, it is in a very critical situation, and you bring a float when what would be needed would be a transatlantic. The cultural and event sectors need, first of all, direct and undisturbed aid. He looked with envy, and he said the other day, at the aid the State is putting in place in Germany to help him, compensating for up to 70% of the losses to the concert halls or theatres that have to close. What's that gonna mean? That helps them hibernate and that when they can come out after this, they encounter the cultural fabric not intact but significantly protected. Here it's possible that we'll find him with decades of setback. Secondly, the existing aid has become a career of bureaucratic obstacles and the litany of 'you come back tomorrow'. The Red Alert platform, which you cited, pointed out that only two out of ten musicians have been able to access the aids. This happens, fundamentally, because the sector has a specificity, that of intermittence: there are no concerts every day; there are no exhibitions every day. The decrees therefore have to address all this specificity. The ironic thing, Minister, is that this work is already done; it's ironic and it's sad. The diagnosis, proposals and public policies are made, and, moreover, with a high degree of consensus, in the status of the artist, which must be developed immediately. If it had developed, we would not find ourselves in this situation today. And there is an aggravation that I do not understand, Minister. These days we have all felt that culture accompanied us more, and it is good to remember that behind the films, the songs, the concerts or the books there are professionals. Some are more visible and others are invisible. Among these invisible people are people who put themselves behind a camera, others who pull cables, others who cut the street, others who make up or there are others who work on sound. For I do not understand the aggravation that these invisible ones cover half of the aid, up to 430 euros, for less time and with more requirements. The COVID has taught us that the most invisible are often the most essential. Minister, culture, and in the diagnosis I hope we agree, is essential in two ways. In one sense, because it helps us to make society, it allows us to put ourselves in the skin of the other. In another sense, because culture is not asking for charity or for charity or for help, it is asking for a determined and firm country bet that what is an industry that generates a lot of wealth and many jobs can generate even more. In Spain we must begin to take our cultural sector seriously, which is as much as saying that we take our country seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, today we are discussing the validation of this decree-law, which is necessary but, once again, insufficient and which, as always, is late. To settle in the culture of the insufficient is associated to settle in the culture of the inefficient. The cultural sector, you said, is one of the sectors most affected by the pandemic and, if in a normal situation we could already consider it to be one of the most forgotten sectors, it is now facing an unsustainable situation. Rigor, efficiency and speed are needed. Things, and this royal decree is an example, can always be done better, but, above all, in these circumstances they must be done faster. We cannot allow the side effects of the pandemic to take place in the sphere of culture, because culture is not, and you know it perfectly well, a side area. He thanked the world of culture for its empathy, of course, but it needed resources and could not be late and with droppers. The sector is suffering and needs more aid. You have the skills in social security and work, and you could and, in fact, should have been more generous and efficient. As a government, they would have had to face up together to set the quotas of the autonomous, who are many - you know - in the world of culture. Quotas should have been set on the basis of income or allowed to be made more flexible on the basis of invoicing from a given minimum. How can 350 euros be paid per month or a VAT be paid if the invoice has not been charged and if a minimum is not invoiced? Consideration should be given to how taxes on economic activity can be taxed without such economic activity being carried out because of the pandemic. Spain is the only State in Europe that has not granted direct aid to professionals, undertakings or entities and has only given credit. It has only provided endorsements by promoting indebtedness in this way. We must stop penalizing and drowning entrepreneurs, because culture has also reinvented itself in times of pandemic. Think, for example, of the effort made by language teachers not to leave their students without classes and betting on online solutions or think, for example, of an actor like Martí Perarnau, who has turned the dining room of his house into a theater so as not to give up his profession and be able to work in his municipality, considering the restrictions of mobility, and in groups allowed by the health authorities. They are examples of the thousands of people who have undertaken cultural projects despite the circumstances and who must be able to survive. Last week the Senate approved a motion by Junts per Catalunya in defense of the cultural sector, lowering VAT on products and cultural activities. Now that it is so fashionable to use the verb armour, what is necessary is to shield culture as an essential basic service - I liked to hear it in its initial exhibition - as a good thing of general interest, as an element of individual and collective growth, but also as a source of employment generation and economic activity. It is therefore timely and consistent to apply reduced taxation to the consumption of their goods and services. This has been understood by the governments of virtually all the Member States of the European Union, and it could not be understood why Spain did not apply these reduced tax rates. When they announce social measures to support workers in the cultural sector they refer to the professionals of the Tauromaquia and announce it with a bullring in case it was not clear. Mark Spain. I'm done. Culture is an evil sector by the virus of those who do not believe in it and do not realize that culture is what we have left when we have nothing left. And nothing will make sense if culture is not part of the life of as many people as possible, so bet on the real culture and you'll see how we all win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u91	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Good morning, minister. We discussed the validation of the Royal Decree Law on complementary social measures for the cultural sector. But before we talk about this royal decree, let us look at how the administration of this government has been in relation to aid to the cultural sector in times of pandemic. You, Minister, woke up in May, when we were already seven weeks of state of alarm and cessation of activity in the cultural sector, and approved the Royal Decree Law 17/2020 on aid to the cultural sector. It is an already precarious sector and with structural weaknesses that often requires public investment for its maintenance as an essential good and as a good of public need. That royal decree-law, as we said in your debate, we understood that it was short and did not give sufficient support to many professionals in the sector, staying out of the weather and without anyone accompanying them at such difficult times. Well, we and other groups have tabled amendments to improve that royal decree, after many meetings with the sector, to treat it as a bill incorporating measures that would reach more workers in the world of culture. Today, the paper has not even been created to be able to discuss it. It was approved in May, this is November and the paper has not even been created. His incompetence and that of his ministry is such that they have had to adopt six months later complementary measures that reach certain sectors of the cultural world because they have not been able to agree between different ministries of his Government to process the presentation and introduce improvements that would benefit many workers in the cultural sector. The truth is, we think it's a shame. And when they do, when they pass another royal decree-law, they include aid to the Tauromaquia sector and advertise it by saying that with this aid they also benefit the world of culture. The truth is that I don't know if you really believe that bullfighting consists of torturing an animal in a square until it is killed, it's part of culture, as you defend in this royal decree, and more so after the incoherence that is supposed to have defended you a Lomloe that introduces empathy towards animals into education. I don't know if they believe it or have succumbed to the screams of the far right, that clothes are torn when asking for help for the bullfighting. But we tell you loud and clear that torturing an animal to death is not culture, and you, who call yourselves the most progressive government in history, should know that. But at this point we are already missing a few things coming from a minister who sometimes seems more like Citizens than Socialist, who tweets that in Spain the Spanish, Catalan, Basque, Galician and Valencian are spoken, buying the theses of the linguistic earthplanism of Citizens and PP when they say that the Valencian and Catalan are two different languages. Above all, they call essentialists those who do not share their thesis, when it was clearly demonstrated in the Congress debate last Tuesday that Spain only speaks Spanish and that anyone who wishes to express himself in another language in this Chamber is withdrawn from the floor. If you want essentialism, minister, there's a sample. In short, although we are in favour of aid to the cultural sectors which were not included in the Royal Decree-Law of May, we are going to abstain because we do not agree that aid to the Tauromaquia should be incorporated. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u92	Thank you, Mr. Margall. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs García Puig. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u93	Good morning, good afternoon almost. I wanted to start by quoting The World Today. The Today World is a satirical publication that through false news puts us in a grotesque mirror of reality. In 2014, in the midst of the crisis and cuts, some cuts that made special honeycomb in culture, we read the following news: the cuts force to fire one of the girls from Velázquez's painting. Moreover - the news said - precariousness would force to retitle the most famous paintings of El Prado in order to make them more in keeping with the unstable situation of the art workers. For example, from Goya, Saturn devouring his children would come to be called Saturn devouring his fellow; The shootings of May 3 would be the improper layoffs of May 3, and Danae receiving the golden rain from Tiziano, would become Danae receiving the finiquito. Beyond the carcase that this news can provoke us, especially the people who live in our own flesh the cuts of culture, what The World Today shows with this news is how the precariousness of culture affects the world of art, how it impoverishes it and how it kills its diversity. For this reason, the victims of the precariousness of the cultural sector are not only their workers, but society as a whole. Unfortunately, as happened in 2014, the health crisis we are experiencing has been particularly stubborn in culture. Culture was the first to close and yet it has been the last sectors to receive aid. Although we would have liked this royal decree - which is already the second in the field of culture since the beginning of the pandemic - to have arrived before, it is good news because it is a royal decree that seeks to protect women cultural workers and, with it, also seeks to protect a culture for all. The royal decree - it has already been explained - not only extends the aid of the first royal decree on culture that was adopted, but it expands it and creates an exceptional subsidy for the technical staff of the culture. This reflects one of the great demands of the sector, which was expressed, for example, through initiatives such as Red Alert, and it is evident that this Government is listening, that this Government is rectifying and that this Government is continuing its efforts not to leave anyone behind. But what this royal decree does is to take one more step - an insufficient step, a small step, but a step - in recognizing the importance of culture in our society, because culture is a right, as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights says, and, no matter how much it bothers those of the mythical 'Death intelligence!', cultural rights are widely recognized in our legal system. Citizenship not only lives from home to work. That is why I want to claim here once again that culture is safe and that it is totally incomprehensible that in some autonomous communities, such as Catalonia, one can go to Mass and cannot go to the theatre. [[Applauds]] This human right, which is culture, is not guaranteed until precariousness ceases to be the common denominator for the entire cultural sector. He explained Remedios Zafra in an essay entitled Enthusiasm, already before the pandemic. The past crisis was devastating for the cultural sector and since then the cultural system has been living with creative people, who in most cases live in absolute precariousness, and whose enthusiasm is what is used to justify their labour exploitation. This royal decree seeks to alleviate an emergency situation, but, Minister, we need more ambitious, more structural medium- and long-term policies. After all, we must consider culture as a fundamental right. Recently, cultural professionals and activists presented a manifesto in which they argued that a universal basic income was the best possible cultural policy. Proposals like this put on the table that a redistribution of wealth is necessary so that the craft of culture, but also access to culture, be for all and not a privilege. In this sense, as a woman, as a person who dedicates himself to culture, as an editor rather than a politician, I want to put on the table an essential element in which culture is a privilege, which is gender inequality in culture. Cultural works are widely feminized territories, with a large majority of women and yet when we find jobs where there is greater prestige and better remuneration, curiously women disappear. A few days ago, the Observatory on Gender Equality in Culture presented a very valuable study that pointed out this remarkable inequality in terms of gender in culture with all the details. We must tackle this gender inequality urgently and go to its very root. We therefore support the new impetus that the Ministry of Culture wants to give, through the general budgets of the State, to the Observatory for Gender Equality in the field of culture and ask it to continue to work in this regard, with determination, ambition and with a consideration of culture as an essential element for achieving social justice. I don't want to end without mentioning the subject of bullfighting. On this issue I have to align myself with other speakers who have spoken before and who believe that this is not the place for aid to the Tauromaquia. At Unidad Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú we consider that tauromaquia is not culture, that it is animal abuse and, therefore, we think that no funds should be allocated to tauromaquia. In any case, they should be allocated to a plan for the conversion of the Taurine sector. Our society has clearly said that most do not want bulls and this House will have to accept it. [[Applauds]] Thank you. I want to end a quote from Remedios Zafra that I want to address today, after the show that we have experienced, especially those who get so nervous when we talk about cultural rights, public education or linguistic wealth. Remedios Zafra says: If power in the West had a voice, it would have been an echo that would have passed through the past. It's not good for the poor to believe. It is not because creation is mobilized by knowledge, knowledge generates consciousness and consciousness is question that asks: Hey, you, why do you have so much and I have nothing? Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if this is what happens to you; let's see if so much shouting defending privileges and not supporting culture is going to answer to this your real political goal, which is not to touch your pocket. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u94	Thank you, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr López Maraver has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u95	Good morning, President. The Government brings us a royal decree in which it has abandoned the entire cultural sector and sends it to misery. They no longer convince their four millionaire friends of the artist's progress watered with paguitas. They now intend to sneak it in saying that they have run out of spring-summer parrots and now they come with the autumn-winter collection. And since the Pisuerga passes through Valladolid, we offer a alms to the world of bull and circus. You have put in the queues of hunger the Taurinian sector, the workers of dance, the lyric, the circus world, the theatre, writers, booksellers, painters, sculptors, cinema employees and technical and auxiliary personnel of the cultural sector. Mr. Rodríguez Uribes, I told you, Decree 17/2020 solved little or nothing the fundamental problem of our culture. That is why now, which comes with another badly glued patch that pretends to laugh at the face of the entire cultural sector, cultural professionals need a definitive solution. The spring decree put cultural professionals in the queues of hunger and this November is even worse: bread for the first course and hunger for the second. You're specialists in breaking down sectors. They blew up the automotive sector, then they blew up the tourism sector; tourism that for the most part comes to Spain, precisely, to enjoy the historical and cultural heritage, not those ideological films that no one sees. And now the commitment to this decree is to give the definitive point to the cultural sector. You want the whole of Spain asking for alms. This decree refers to the imminent expiry of the benefits provided for in the May decree. Why have they had to wait for the expiry of these benefits to be brought closer in order to extend their effect? Why don't they give a definitive solution, not three months? I assure you that on January 31st you will return here to make a toast to the sun. Pay the payroll and let people work with the appropriate security measures. They create an exceptional unemployment benefit for technical and auxiliary staff in the cultural sector, which will be equal to 80% of the current monthly public multi-effect income indicator. For all of us to understand each other, the gentleman or lady who works for a company in the auxiliary sector and who meets the very difficult conditions that they have imposed to meet the aid requirements, will be granted EUR 430 per month for three months. Gentlemen of the Government, this is what you earn in the day and a half. You return us to the cuts of the Zapatero era, to the famous 400 euros of ruin. Worse still, if these people are autonomous, they already know what the government is doing with the autonomous: sticks and more sticks; and euros, zero. The Spaniards are getting tired of you having first-class citizens and second-class citizens; pay 100% of the payroll to everyone. At most, its bureaucratic yincan will have access to some 3000 thousand people, that is 4 million euros. Minister, you come here to breastfeed and the figures are showing you how you have been highlighted by the more than 750 amendments recorded in RD 17/2020 which you came to present in spring assuming and which has been an absolute failure, as I have already warned you; among other things, that is why you are here again today. Now I ask you, what solution are you going to give the circus sector, the oldest show in the world, over 3000 years old, to which you have been starving since March? When you are worthy I present to the family Segura Quirós of the Alaska circus, the Quirós circus, the Africa circus and the Nevada circus, 18 brothers with their 84 children, more than 9 cousins, with their 21 children plus 40 other paid families and all the auxiliary staff. More than 1000 people have been standing in a camp since Christmas 2019, having to feed not only them, but dozens of animals - horses, elephants, lions - that eat every day, but it seems that the radical animalism with which this coalition government commulgates cares very little about this matter; they beyond dogs and cats, if I see you I don't remember. That's right, ban and ban. The circus sector is very vulnerable, most of its members are autonomous, so these measures do not solve one of the problems they are facing because of their temporality. Minister, if you want to do something, promote the circus as part of our national culture and allow your shows to be held with health guarantees. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, its absolute ideological sectarianism has burst into the second mass spectacle of our nation, an international cultural expression that leaps across the Atlantic and crosses the Pyrenees: our national feast. I told him in the spring and I repeat, the Tauromaquia is wealth, cultural heritage rooted in the roots of Spain, with ecological, productive and even legal vectors of our nation; it is culture in the highest and most real sense of the word, which is the involvement with the homeland itself, a historical and real involvement towards the arts of all kinds and creation, an involvement in the rural and ecological world for many centuries and an essential bastion in front of Spain that many call empty and that is now more alive than ever. [[Applauds]] However, what you have done with the Tauromachia in this decree is an absolute trap and a take of hair. They propose access to extraordinary aid for flaggers and pickers who have not received unemployment benefit since the end of the races in October 2019. Directly these people don't exist. What have these people lived on if not for a year? And if anyone existed it must have participated in 2020 is more than 8 bull shows. If you have been in charge of banning 99% shows this year! So they don't exist either. And if there are any left, you have fifteen days to access the help. And after January 31st, what happens? The bulls in this country start in April. That decree has laughed at the face of the bull's world. There is not a single aid for entrepreneurs, for bullrings, for organizers of popular celebrations or for lidia herds and much less for bull-killers. Gentlemen of the animalist environmentalist government, you have killed 99% of the bulls in this country at once; you have ruined hundreds of cattle farms that have been forced to take thousands of heads to the slaughterhouse that have not had a way to feed and, most bloody and serious, you are about to end up with the brave bull, native Spanish breed of unmatched genetic potential that allows the development of a unique fauna and flora where there is a perfect and sustained biological balance: the dehesa. Minister, before or after all sectors of culture have already asked for your resignation, do you know why? Because you've left everyone out and, most seriously, you're taking away people's belongings and belongings - your traditions, your popular parties, the national party, your customs - is the most sacred thing you have, and that's not going to be forgiven. In spite of all this, we will vote in favour, because in times of ruin even a beggar takes away hunger. Thank you very much. [[applause of the honourable Members and Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Lopez. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] The floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress is Mr. Goofy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u97	Thank you very much, President. Mr Errejón, a conceptual precision: If there is concertation, humble families will be able to choose; if there is only public or private, they will be able to choose only the rich. That's the freedom we talked about this morning. [[applause.-Mr Errejón Galván makes affirmative gestures with his head]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I must admit that at first I was surprised that a decree-law on unemployment benefits and allowances was defended by you and not by the Minister for Employment, Mrs Díaz, but then I thought about it better and did not miss me so much because I changed my mind for Mrs Díaz to defend this royal decree-law. Because it is the defeat of Mrs Díaz' sectarianism, especially with regard to the Taurus professionals. Although the Minister of Culture defends the rights of the Taurus professionals depending on the day and depending on the newspaper, she has won the pulse in this matter to Mrs Díaz, even if it is very limited and very insufficient. We in the Group of the European People's Party are pleased that the most radical theses do not succeed with this Government for once. However, ladies and gentlemen, let's go in pieces. This Royal Decree-Law establishes, first of all, a special unemployment benefit for those citizens who have exhausted their benefit or unemployment benefit during the first state of alarm. A help that is positive in the midst of a huge economic and social crisis such as that experienced by Spain, but that again is an example of a lack of forecast because this help comes late and stays short, and also because Mrs Díaz is a specialist in announcing benefits that she then does not pay. An economic newspaper was talking this week, citing union sources, that 40% of people in ERTE face defaults for SEPE's collapse, and that is leaving a lot of people behind, Mr Rodríguez Uribes. Secondly, it extends until 31 January the possibility of extraordinary access to the unemployment benefit of artists in public performances in view of the exhaustion of the measures of Royal Decree-Law 17/2020, as you have told us. This would not have been necessary if the Royal Decree-Law had already been dealt with in this House as a bill, as we approved by all the groups of the Congress of Deputies. Why? For his fights, for the fights between Podemos and the PSOE, for the fights between Culture and Finance, and even, as a matter of urgency, he convened a Bureau during the Plenary of Congress to extend the deadline for amendments to the Royal Decree-Law. While the cultural sector is suffering, you are constantly delaying the processing of this rule. Thirdly, an exceptional unemployment benefit is provided for technical and auxiliary staff in the cultural sector. It is only fair to help workers who are faced with the same intermity as other cultural workers, who have been equally affected by the suspension of cultural shows and who have been helpless for eight months by their Government. These have also been left behind, Mr. Rodríguez Uribes. And fourthly, this royal decree approves the right to unemployment benefit for the Taurino professionals - from Rondón, his new partners in Bildu have told him - and it does so because the Ministry of Labour has denied them a right that is contained in Decree-Law 17/2020, which recognizes access to unemployment benefit for public performing artists. Ladies and gentlemen, are they or are they not the professional artists of public shows? They are, and they are, because the law says so, as the Royal Decree of 1985 says in its article 1: All relations established for the execution of artistic activities carried out directly before the public in media such as theatre, cinema, broadcasting, television or bull stands are included. And I say that the decree, when it speaks of artistic shows in bull squares, will not refer to the congresses of Podemos in Vista Alegre, although they also give shows, it must be recognized. [[Applauds]] But the Tauromaquia Act also makes it clear that it is part of the Spanish cultural heritage. If you do not trust us, at least trust the Ombudsman, who was a member of the PSOE - it is true that of the other generation, which Mrs Lastra says now - and you are a person of prestige who has told you that you do not share the restrictive and unorthodox interpretation made by SEPE and, if you do not trust the Ombudsman, read your own decree-law, which includes the article on the performance of the professionals of the Tauromaquia in the chapter entitled Measures of protection by unemployment of artists who carry out their activities in performing arts and public shows. They're public entertainment artists. We could start here a debate for or against the bullfighting and I could quote, for example, the famous Cervantes award, Francisco Brines, when he says that bullfighting is the most beautiful and perfect spectacle that the Spaniards have created and the position of the Popular Group is known, to protect the bullfighting as a cultural expression. Some of you would disagree frontally, but it's not about that, it's about being fair to all the workers, it's about not discriminating against anyone; it's about recognizing workers who have contributed to Social Security their right to this benefit; it's about helping desperate workers, who have been without income for six months, since last October the season ended; it's about workers who are mostly not first swords, who are pickers, flags, who have low salaries and earn a few hundred euros. Mrs Díaz is aware that she is a minister for all Spaniards and not just for those who vote for Podemos. What would you think if the People's Party from the government passed a decree excluding a group because we didn't like it or because we didn't vote for the People's Party? What would they be saying? Mr. Uribes, for many months you have had for pure sectarianism many humble families without knowing how you were going to take bread to your mouth. I smelled the defenders of the working and working class! What a shame, gentlemen of Podemos, what a shame, Mr. Uribes! [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] And, meanwhile, the Socialist Party playing Don Tancredo, because the Minister of Labour is Podemos', but I say that the President is Socialist Party, or does Mr. Churches command? And the minister, as the saying: Not a bad word, but not a good deed. If you really want to help these workers, give them the SEPE's right to benefit from March and retroactively, or also approve retroactively the aid to assistants and technicians in the cultural sector. Madam President, I'm done. These measures are very short and very late, but citizens who can benefit from them are not to blame. We will therefore vote for the validation of this royal decree-law and request its processing as a bill to improve the text in the sense that we have transmitted to you. In the defense of culture, of all culture, you will always find the People's Group. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Carazo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Lamuà Estañol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u99	Thank you very much, President. That some lordship who represents here also the parties that are in the Independentist Government of Catalonia ask speed, agility and effectiveness in the aid to the cultural sector the day after his advisor slapped and humiliated the cultural sector of Catalonia by stopping the aid that they had to leave today, is a little embarrassing. [[Applauds]] Rubbish yourself a little because, ladies and gentlemen, with the bread of culture you do not play, with the bread of our citizens you do not play. That is the exercise of responsibility that the Spanish Government has been doing since last spring, and it is to be welcomed that today in cultural matters, for which the majority of the groups in this House have expressed, support this real decree and the necessary and common responsibility that we need to prevail in these pandemic times; that at least in the field of culture and work today we can send that message of shared responsibility to our society is to be thanked. Before we enter the matter more directly, let me say how necessary it would be to see that responsibility shared with all the essential differences in democracy, with all the inevitable criticisms of the representativeness that we have, ladies and gentlemen, how necessary it would be to see it, for example, on Wednesday mornings without reducing an apex of intensity to the debate, but adding all the responsibility and exemplaryness that we are seeing today. How necessary it would also be for these weeks that come in the budget debate that we dispel populism and demagogy, that were, yes, criticism, debate and even confrontation, but above all dialogue, agreement, pact, because that pragmatism, this will of solution, as today we are demonstrating in this validation, that assumption of the common challenges is the best message that political representatives can send to the society we represent. Today - ladies and gentlemen - there is no doubt that culture is one of the sectors hardest hit by this pandemic. By their very nature, by the way most of their acts and actions take place, our cultural sectors were the first to be beaten and had to close their activity; and let us not deceive ourselves, they will probably be the last to be able to regain normalcy. That is why culture is asking us directly, ladies and gentlemen, it requires our response, it demands it. It requires us to be exemplary for and for culture; it requires us to be aware of the need to adapt to every moment, to every stage, right, quickly, as some of you asked, ladies and gentlemen, but always stepping on firm ground. In this turbulent Chamber I believe that there is a minimum common transversal denominator in terms of the fight against COVID, leaving no one behind. It is these royal decrees that materialize that shared will, ladies and gentlemen, that land what we must do to reality. Because, yes, this is going to leave no one behind, and in culture, because of the special conditions of intermittence, of temporality within the year of their employment, that means a major challenge, because Minister Uribes pushed a more than remarkable effort together with other ministries, such as the Labour, to illuminate the royal decree of May. Because there we have given cover to our cultural sectors, because the processing that has been mentioned as a bill will enrich it, improve it and, moreover - I say it first-hand - I am convinced that the ambition of the same ministry will also lead it to channel some of the challenges that we face in this legislature and that have been mentioned here today, in this rostrum. And when in the Socialist Party we say that no one is left behind it is literally. Let us not mix debates, ladies and gentlemen, let us not mingle with collateral issues, let us not allow anything to alienate or blur the central objective of the effort that we have here today, leaving no one behind in the course of this crisis. Let us not abstain from this effort or where we rule or where we have to help those who rule; abstention we do not carry in our DNA, but always fasten our shoulder. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Spain and its culture have already lived the way out of a crisis led by the People's Party, based on the release of ballast to float economically, which was nothing less than our workers, our citizens, our people working in culture. Don't expect us to do that, don't expect us to do that, ladies and gentlemen. If we have decided to lift that social shield with great effort, it is because we are determined not to leave anyone behind, in culture as well and especially. Because this royal decree is going to protect the rights of workers - they are not mistaken, they are not mathematical - and the rights of workers or they are always defended or they are not defended, but to cut, to choose, cannot be defended. This isn't the big store sale. The rights of workers are defended always and without palliatives, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] We must defend it, since culture is one of our great spaces for the future. We believe it, the Socialist Party believes it. Our culture, our cultural industries are and must be one of the main engines to get out of this crisis. This new effort by the Government today is for that very reason, so as not to leave anyone behind and help to alleviate as much as possible the impact that COVID has on our cultural fabric. This requires - the minister has explained - to extend some of the benefits that we have already put in place and, of course, that we promote new benefits to cover those aspects that the reality has taught us and that we have not yet narrowed down. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, culture is the mortar with which we build Spain, together and diverse, plural and united. Culture is also hidden gold in full view of our society. As if it would not generate the transversality that we have seen today in this Chamber? Culture roots us in the common past and brings us together in the harsh present, but above all it is our great opportunity for the future, as an industry, as an economy and as a society. Today he asks us justly, but certainly to return it with more, as he has always done, tomorrow. Let us be just and generous and let us all support for culture this royal decree-law. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u100	Thank you, Mr. Lamuà. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u101	We then proceed to discuss the report on the evaluation and reform of the Toledo Pact, adopted by the Standing Committee on the Monitoring and Evaluation of the Toledo Pact Agreements. Mrs Valerio Cordero has the floor to present the report on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission which I am honoured to chair agreed at its last sitting on 27 October to entrust me with the task of presenting to the plenary of the House the new report on the evaluation and reform of the Toledo Pact, which this year is 25 years old. First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers of the Commission for their continued renunciation of any form of leadership, as well as for their efforts to mitigate the not always coincident positions of their respective political formations in order to build the consensus that is necessary to lay the foundations on which future reforms of our Public Pension System will be supported, all of which will give confidence and certainty to more than 10 million people who are now receiving pensions and to whom we hope to do so in the future. I would also like to express the Commission's appreciation to all those individuals and institutions who have contributed over four long years to the renewal of the Toledo Pact. It is fair to point out the assistance received from Minister Escrivá and his team, especially from Don Israel Arroyo, Don Borja Suárez and Don Alberto Llorente, who have greatly facilitated the drafting of the texts that are presented today and, of course, the text provided by the Commission's lawyer, Mr Ignacio Gutiérrez. The current model of social security can be defined, following Beveridge, as 'the set of measures taken by the State to protect citizens from those risks of individual realization that will never cease to present themselves as optimal as the situation of the whole society in which they live'. In accordance with this model, the European Social Charter, the Community Charter of Fundamental Social Rights and the European Pillar of Social Rights were adopted, which contain the basic Community rules on social protection and guarantee the realization of the principles of contribution, sufficiency, equality and universality in the area of pensions. The demographic evolution envisaged for Spain is sufficiently well known, the three main circumstances of which are the increase in life expectancy, the fall of the birth rate and the ageing of the population; in such a way that the group of people over 67 years of age is gradually gaining importance, which, unfortunately, is being particularly punished for the lethal effects that the COVID-19 pandemic is causing. The starting point of the new recommendations of the Toledo Pact is to avoid measures that could distort or render the pension system of our Social Security unrecognizable. It is therefore, first of all, committed to a contributing public model of distribution and solidarity, which guarantees sufficient social assistance and benefits in the face of situations of need, in the terms laid down in article 41 of our Constitution. It will be necessary to deepen the principle of separation of sources, with the consequent shift in the financing of so-called inappropriate expenditure in order to restore financial equilibrium within the year 2023. It is singularly meant the tremendous contribution that social contributions have made to finance for decades the achievement of important achievements for society, but alien to the purposes of social security. The maintenance of the purchasing power of pensions, guaranteed by law by means of annual revaluation according to the real CPI, as well as the integration and convergence of schemes, is still being defended, with a clear bet on the approximation in the framework of the social dialogue of the contribution bases of self-employed workers to their real income. The Commission considers it important to assess the impact of the extension of the period used for the calculation of the regulatory basis for the retirement pension, depending on the type of professional career of the worker, often marked by periods of unemployment and precariousness. Such assessment should also include other measures such as the choice of the most favourable years in determining its regulatory basis. With regard to employment incentives, recommendation 6 provides that, in accordance with the principle of separation of sources, the financing of such incentives cannot be covered by social contributions and should focus on promoting the employment of persons with disabilities, at risk of social exclusion and victims of gender-based violence, as well as long-term unemployed persons. In addition, within the framework of the social dialogue, the maintenance of employment of those aged 55 or over should be encouraged. A prominent role is also assigned to strengthening the human and material resources of Social Security and the Labour Inspectorate, to modernizing procedures, to combating fraud, to upholding the principle of contribution and to the role of mutual partners. With regard to the retirement age, the Commission considers that the actual age should be close to the legally established age by encouraging the active stay of those who wish to do so, as well as by reserving early retirement for those with long contributory careers, without prejudice to those activities which, by virtue of their unique nature, have their own specific rules. However, it is also considered necessary to address the problem of early retirements, forced by the circumstances in which the application of the reducing coefficients has consequences that could violate the principles of contribution and equity. With regard to widowhood and orphanhood benefits, it is necessary to gradually carry out a comprehensive reformulation without altering their contribution nature, including the abolition of unjustified discrimination affecting the person receiving the pension because there is no previous marriage bond. The protective action of this benefit should focus on persons who are 65 years of age or older when the pension is their main source of income, especially since the most common profile among those receiving this pension is that of an elderly woman with limited economic resources. On the other hand, in accordance with Articles 41 and 50 of our Constitution, the Commission considers that solidarity and the guarantee of sufficiency are fundamental values of the pension system and that, as such, they must continue to be strengthened. With regard to supplementary schemes, the Commission stresses the need to promote, preferably, the employment systems which form part of the so-called second pillar of the pension model. This renewal of the pact deals extensively and intensively with the adoption of structural measures to combat the gender gap in pensions, within the section on women and social security. It is also committed to restoring young people's confidence in the system by taking measures aimed at their full integration into the labour market, as well as promoting access to decent employment for persons with disabilities, whose unique features must be taken into account when accessing a pension and making it compatible with work. With regard to migrant workers, it is emphasized that demographic challenges will make migration policy a key element in strengthening the pension system. On the other hand, robotics, the development of artificial intelligence and the emergence of the digital platform economy affect labor relations and are also projected on our Social Security System. If this implies an increase in productivity but not in employment and contributions, innovative mechanisms will have to be found to supplement the financing of social security. Finally, the need to reach agreement in the Social Dialogue Bureau is stressed, and it is therefore essential that the Presidency of the House formally transfer these recommendations to the members of the House, to the most representative business and trade union organizations and to the Government, in particular to the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Only with the sum of both political and social consensus will we be able to adopt effective measures that will solve in a lasting way the important challenges facing our Social Security today, which is and must continue to be an instrument of vertebration, inclusion and cohesion that guarantees social peace and political stability. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Valerio. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to defend the particular votes cast by their groups, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano intervened by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u104	Egun on. Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen, minister. Given the time available, I cannot go into the substance of each of the thirteen particular votes that we have tabled together with the Republican Left Group, but at least I would like to record their motivation. [[The Lord]] Social movements of pensioners are not asking for impossible, they are asking for dignity; access to decent pensions is a possible and necessary issue. Let us not repeat mistakes of the past in the development of these recommendations. The 2007 crisis has already shown that the rules of the speculative economy are far removed from the real productive economy and especially from social needs. Today, by the end of 2020, in the midst of another major crisis in this situation created by the pandemic, we cannot consider reimplementing restrictive measures, restrictive measures. Getting out of the crisis requires strengthening domestic demand; strengthening pensions, especially the lowest, means giving life to pensioners and their families, but it is also a direct tool for resuscitation of the economy. The previous Toledo Pact was drafted there for 2011, today we are in a very different situation. However, this text has not changed basically in what is its structure or in its fundamental elements, Why? Because basically these recommendations, like those of 2011, continue to respond to the orders of the technocracy, to the framework of the constraints imposed on us by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, that bureaucratic elite that continues to order the reduction of the amount of pensions; pensions that in their own texts state that they are generous, they say so, with this qualification. But what about generosity in a pension of 400, 600 or 700 euros? It's ironic that they're still putting these adjectives. And these same financial entities not only call for the reduction of pensions but also, knowing the effects of their policies, propose different measures to alleviate the situation of impoverishment of pensions. What do you propose? Delaying retirement beyond 65, even beyond 67; making retirement compatible with work; improving pensions with private pension supplements; supporting pensions with social inclusion income. What a coincidence!, many of these measures coincide with the basic axes that we are gathering in the Toledo Pact. We cannot accept, therefore, that these agreements give a good deal of meaning to this tax framework for the limitation of duties. We do not agree with many of the basic aspects of the text of recommendations. Our particular votes are based, precisely, on two observations: first, the Social Security System is not generous and, second, the demographic issue is not the problem, the problem is basically economic. In our 13 private votes we propose to reaffirm the maintenance and improvement of the Public Pension System based on distribution and solidarity, as well as to replenish and compensate the resources of the Social Security box diverted to improper expenses. The pact must include an audit to determine the amount of surpluses that have not been made to any reserve fund since 1978. In the area of mutual societies, a new regulatory framework is needed and, with regard to the recommendation, we call for the withdrawal of the 'extension of supplementary pension schemes' point. Privatization of pensions, even if they are business-related, cannot be seen as one of the fundamental pillars for strengthening the pensions of the majority of the population. They have no redistributive effect, in fact they are unattainable for many low-saving sectors, and they also detract from future resources needed for the proper functioning of the Public Pension System. Another basic aspect is that the Toledo Pact should not consolidate social security reforms that reduce pensions, especially the most precarious ones, such as the introduction of fifteen years as a minimum contribution period to obtain a contribution, the increase to twenty-five years of contribution calculation or the increase from thirty-five to thirty-seven years of contribution to be 100 per cent. In our particular vows we also advocate that working above 65 years has to be voluntary. In the case of early retirements, we include the right of those who are 40 years of age or older to receive 100 per cent, once they reach retirement age. And when they are involuntary retirements, in the case of thirty-five listed years that can access one hundred percent. We also draw attention to those situations of pensioners who have been negatively affected by legislative changes, elimination of the deadline and the pension safeguard clause. As far as the amounts are concerned, they must be sufficient to live in dignity. The pension dignity threshold should be set at 90% of the decent wage. According to the European Social Charter, today a decent minimum wage is 1200 euros; that is what a decent minimum pension of 1080 is for. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. These Commission recommendations do not reflect the basic needs of pensioners. That the Toledo Pact does not respond to these demands of pensioners' movements is very serious. Not supporting the elimination of poverty pensions or the abolition of cuts in the rights of pensioners here today is a major responsibility that they will have to answer to society. With these particular votes we try to reach a basis of agreement for the new social pacts to achieve a new social consensus. Today, in this plenary session, this is not going to be the case, but we hope that these proposals will be taken into account in the subsequent negotiation process to be opened with the social partners and in the process of drafting a new social security law. It will be important for social partners representing pensioners to participate in these processes as well. Be assured that, if this is done, confidence-building processes will be opened with this Government. Yesterday's workers, who raised Social Security, are today's retirees. They deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u105	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, minister. Before I begin, as always as I rise to this rostrum, I would like to address all the Spaniards who are suffering the second wave of this terrible pandemic to convey to them all our strength, our support, our affection and my condolences to the hundreds of families who, day after day, are losing a loved one with this terrible virus. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the spirit of agreement that we have been involved in the work of this Commission will also prevail in the vote in this House, although we have already seen with sadness that there are several groups which have self-excluded from this great agreement. It is interesting to analyse the Commission's agreement. Most of the parliamentary groups voted in favour of the report we are debating today. VOX, Esquerra and Bildu have been excluded from this agreement. It is curious that in the area of pensions, where a future agreement is more than ever needed and for the reform of social security that comes to us, they have nothing to contribute to us. Today's a big day. The work of many years of Members present here and not present is at last reflected in a guide to be followed by the ministry. We do sign that agreement and that is why we are going to vote in favour of this report, and I am also progressing as we are going to be very vigilant about the implementation of what it contains. I would also like to pay tribute to all the Members and social partners who, through their work, have contributed over time to the creation of this text. In particular, I would like to mention María Muñoz and Sergio del Campo, Members of my parliamentary group, Citizens; also the President of the Commission and her excellent work, which has undoubtedly been essential; the lawyer and his tireless work, and the social security technicians. Thank you for that and so good work. Well, as I said, after five years of work, the Commission has finally been able to create and agree on new recommendations that should and should serve as a basis for the forthcoming reform of our social security system. Looking at the text of the recommendations, I believe that it is necessary first to recognize the challenges we are facing. On the one hand, we have to achieve the financial rebalancing of the system, which is not baladí. We need to close the structural deficit of 16 billion a year, to which more than 40 billion will be added this year precisely because of the crisis in COVID. Achieving this goal is fundamental. On the other hand, the principle of the separation of sources of funding is of particular importance as a general principle - which in fact floods the whole text and we welcome it. The approach behind this principle is very simple: contributory benefits must always be financed by contributions and non-contributory benefits from the general income of the State. This is something that has not traditionally been happening and that we have to start doing urgently. The text certifies the principle of contribution, which refers to the need for a proportional relationship between what is paid and what is received by each worker. It is a principle that must be maintained because, after all, if what a worker perceives is unrelated to what he or she contributes, he or she may end up thinking that it makes no sense to contribute. Another challenge facing our pension system, which inspires these recommendations, is a long-term challenge, namely the sustainability of pensions themselves. As regards sufficiency, the Commission opted to recover the CPI as a revaluation mechanism. It remains to be seen how this actual IPC-based update is going to be implemented by the ministry and we will be very pending. To support sustainability, the text provides for bringing the real age closer to the legal retirement age, as the president has also said. In Spain the real retirement age is about 64.6 years, when the legal retirement age is 65 years and 10 months. This is something we intend to correct in the Commission, enhancing incentives for late retirement. In Citizens, even if we agree with these measures, we miss others, such as the promotion of active retirement, which we have proposed as a private vote although we already know that it has not been accepted. We need to delay the retirement age and also to make access compatible with self-employment or work without conditionality and without penalties. That was our goal with this particular vote. Another measure to ensure sustainability concerns the calculation of years of contribution for the calculation of the pension. The Commission assessed the need to continue to expand the number of years to be counted when calculating the amount of the pension for a number of reasons. The first is that work careers are unfortunately no longer as stable as before; moreover, unfortunately, they may be less and less. The second is that there are many workers who today are more than 50 years old and are unemployed, more than half long-term. It is not fair for all people to be covered by a minimum pension because the last stage of their contribution has sunk. The last measure I wanted to highlight in this setting of positions is the need to encourage other long-term ways of saving for retirement, always complementary, never alternative to public pension. In this respect, the Commission has decided on the need to promote the second and third pillars of the pension system. Of course, we agree. Here, too, we fail to see that the Commission has not been more ambitious in promoting this third pillar. In this respect, we in my group have tabled the second and final particular vote on the creation of a universal system of supplementary social security. In this system all workers would be seconded, even if they were not obliged to contribute, and the contributions of companies and workers would be made at the same time, with incentives for the voluntary contributions made by the workers. These contributions could be rescued in circumstances such as long-term unemployment or build up in the face of retirement, in which case they would supplement the public pension, but would not replace it in any case. This system, which has been applied for years in Austria, commonly referred to as the Austrian backpack, has demonstrated its ability to also stimulate private savings in Spain, where we are far behind the European Union. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in Citizens we share the contents of the proposed text and want to thank once again all the social partners, all the Members and all those who have participated in its elaboration. We are talking about more than five years of work suspended by several electoral calls. Thank you for working for consensus. Then we need the House to take an example, especially in the fight against the catastrophe that plagues us. Agreements are essential, they can save lives today. We have a huge challenge as a country and history is going to judge us precisely for what we do today. Spain is worth it. Minister, the ball is on your roof. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u107	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. The BNG is committed to strengthening the public pension system and to ensuring decent pensions for people who have worked for a lifetime. However, we see that unfortunately some of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact Commission are in the opposite direction, which is why we have tabled a particular vote. Thus, for example, the maintenance of the purchasing power of pensions, in our view, cannot be limited to updating under the CPI, minimum pensions must be increased in order to equate them with the inter-professional minimum wage, so that both progress progressively to 60% of the average wage. We believe that private schemes with financial institutions should be discouraged, although tax relief should be totally eliminated, and above all not to promote business schemes, which are equally private, and which from complementary schemes are easily replaced. In any case, those resources must go to strengthen the public system. Nor do we share the expansion of the bases and periods of contribution or promote the delay in the retirement age. On the contrary, we defend the recovery of retirement at 65 and early with 35 - a first step would be forty - without diminishing in the amounts. I'm done. These are vital aspects that we cannot support. We would like to be able to vote yes when the recommendations are moved to the standard because these and other aspects are changed in a positive direction and the reform of the 2011 and 2013 pension system is really being repealed. In the meantime, we're going to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u109	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I rise to the rostrum to explain the particular vote of Compromís and I want to give an example. I was here when the 2012 labour reform was approved - 10 February 2012 - which greatly facilitated dismissal. During all that time - and we still continue with this labor reform - many people were fired; workers aged 50, 55 and 60 went to unemployment and, when one goes to unemployment at age 55 or 60, we already know the chances of returning to work. Therefore, many of them had to retire early and had an 8 % drop in their pension for each missing year until they reached 65 years of age. Therefore, by accepting the aspiration of this group and of all those who had to retire after having been over forty years of contributions, both those who retired forcedly and in advance, we present our particular vote that, in short, what he wants is an amendment to the Social Security Act to eliminate these reducing coefficients for those who retired early, both forced and voluntary, who are 65 years of age or older and who have contributed 40 years. In short, when they reach the age of 65, these reducing factors are not applied to them and therefore their pension is calculated on the basis of the years assessed and their contribution basis. I'm finishing up. This is a reasonable aspiration. Compromís has voted in favour of all the particular votes of BNG, Bildu, ERC and More Country. We will also vote in favour of the proposal for these recommendations. Finally, I would like to thank the work of Mr Ignasi Candela of Compromís, who preceded me in the XI and XII legislatures and who contributed greatly to reaching an agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u111	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u112	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Members of Parliament. First of all, I wanted to thank the President of the Commission, as well as the other speakers, all those who have come to our work from the Toledo Pact Commission, the lawyer and the social security staff - without them it would not be possible to carry forward this agreement on the Toledo Pact - and, of course, the minister here today and his explanations. In fact, in addition to recognizing those people we have met in this legislature, it is also important to recognize - and they will allow me to personalise it - who the witness, Carles Campuzano, and all the enormous work he has done in the area of pensions and social security, so it is fair that today he has the appropriate recognition in this plenary session. The Toledo Pact Commission is also part of a way of understanding politics - this week I recalled it from this rostrum - with respect, with profound ideological differences, but ultimately trying to look for those pacts that allow us to move forward respecting the other, knowing that you have the same right as yourself to raise your options. In this culture of the pact, in this culture of making politics an axis of change is where they will usually find us. In fact, the Toledo Pact implies this also intergenerational pact, i.e. reaching an agreement with broad political and social consensus, but also reaching an agreement that will not shield or kill the vision of future generations. And this is where many of the improvements that we understand to be made in this Toledo Pact are foreseen: improvements in the system, freeing Social Security from inappropriate spending, with incentives for employment that come out of public policies and not from contributions; shielding the increase according to the real CPI; increasing the calculation of the pension, but also allowing freedom to choose the best stretch in working life; maintaining and betting on a system of distribution, or one of the most important, giving that message of confidence that makes it possible to make right decisions when considering the pension system, so that people are sure of what the rules of play are in this pension system. However, he did not want to end without referring to the fact that this Toledo Pact also opens doors to what we have been claiming. The Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia provides that the Generalitat of Catalonia may also have functions in the management of the system and, therefore, it is possible to make a non-centralized model, in full coordination with the system, but respecting that pact represented by the Organic Law of Autonomy Statute. I would also like to claim the historical debt that Social Security has to the State or that historical debt that the Autonomous Communities have with many buildings that are pending to liquidate the amount of that transfer of competences that took place years ago. The recommendation on disability is incorporated, and we believe that it is also a great step forward with recommendations on disability and new forms of employment. This does not end here; we will be attentive and constructive. Today there is a step forward in achieving this new agreement in the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, but there are still many issues to work on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u113	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u114	Good afternoon to everyone. I join the thanks that have been given and those who will come, to highlight the respect that has always presided over the numerous sessions of the Toledo Pact, the workers of the ministry and, of course, the lawyer, Mr Ignacio Gutiérrez. Having said that, I must start by saying that pensioners and contributors are entitled to an open debate on their pension system and their future. It is not right that we only have seven minutes to defend the individual votes and to dispatch a subject that affects millions of people with a budget of more than EUR 150 billion. Finally, the Kingdom of Spain. Let's get to the point. The recommendations presented are not ours, so we do not vote in favour. It is true that the Toledo Pact, unlike what happened in February 2019 - and that is why at the time we voted no to that text - has recovered the revaluation with the IPC clearly, which is also not to throw rockets because it is what has always been until the 2013 reform. And it is true that it recognizes in a veiled manner the looting of funds from the Social Security box. But what good is it to acknowledge that social security contributions have been misused if a replacement plan is not proposed for what has been looted? According to the Banco de España, social security's debt to the state exceeds €72 billion, but how did it get here? Let's go to recommendation number one. The looting of the Social Security box is observed and passively accepted. It is explained that the State has diverted the contributions of more than 18 million workers, and it is done in a way as if nothing had happened here, absolutely nothing. We are talking about social contributions, deferred wages, active workers; we are talking about the diversion in the use of money that is intended only for the pensions of our pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, for decades Social Security has had a surplus and the various governments, instead of creating reserves to deal with crisis situations such as the current one, have used these surpluses for inappropriate expenses that were not of Social Security. And this is very serious; very serious. The resources of the single box - I repeat, the single social security box - are not of any Government or party, belong to the contributors, whether they are wage earners or self-employed; that is their money. Attendance documents in the Covenant Commission state that if the surpluses used to pay improper pension expenses had been accumulated, a reserve fund of EUR 519 104 million would be available today. Little joke. In other words, there would be more than sufficient resources to meet the current and future needs of the system. But we are proud, we have managed to demonstrate that our social security system is sustainable, as the minister says very well. It's sustainable. And since the system is sustainable, the reforms carried out - always downwards - of pensions are not justified, nor are the reasons proposed justified. Reforms that, pact to pact, government to government always cut pensions, we always go down. What consensus is this? And we denounce the worst, that while our single Social Security box was being looted, social security was being forced to borrow absolutely illegitimate State loans, as the Court of Auditors itself reported this August, which also demands to compensate for this enormous injustice, which, according to the Court of Auditors itself, reaches hundreds of billions of euros. The General Act on Social Security, article 109.2 - all can read it - provides that if social contributions are missing for pensions, the State will make such contributions as may be necessary. He never talks about loans; he never talks about loans. We're talking about a law. We therefore ask, together with Coespe and its technicians, for an official audit to determine the amount of these lootings and we demand that, according to that audit, the State undertake a programme of restitution to the Social Security Fund, as requested by workers, pensioners and the Court of Auditors itself. Ladies and gentlemen, a big lie has been created, that the pension system is unsustainable. In fact, on the basis of this lie, the Toledo Pact was created in 1995 twenty-five years ago; a commission was set up, they say, to make the system sustainable. While, paradoxically, the box was being looted on the one hand and real pension cuts on the other were recommended. Awesome! At the same time, the real open political debate was avoided - a sample is today, thirteen particular votes that no one is going to know, no one is going to know what they are about - that put the system at risk. What really puts the system at risk is the plundering of social security contributions, the deindustrialised productive model and labour legislation that condemns precariousness to workers, i.e. precarious today and future precarious pensioners as well. [[The lady]] To conclude the circle, the recommendation opens a huge door to changing the pension model. A new model of pensions is proposed, inspired by the English model of two components: one, a pension system - a cut-off pact - rickhitic, which is geared towards pure charity; two, a supplementary pension system, based on private pensions, by which the financial system and the bank manage to fully enter into what they consider to be the big business of the pension system. Or, in reverse, as everyone has acknowledged in the Toledo Pact, if the system is sustainable, as the Minister even acknowledges, why are private investment plans? Or why are minimum pensions not raised to 60% of the wage? Or why not lower the mandatory retirement age? Or why is bread and salt denied to long-term pensioners who have been expelled from the labour market and are penalised with life-long reducing coefficients? Or why is it already talking about extending the period of calculation of the regulatory base, which will lead to further pension reductions? I'm done, sure. Or why do they only hinder the regularization of immigrants, allowing discrimination and preventing more social security contributors? Why? Very simple: because we accept once again the pressures of financial capital, banking and employers, to the detriment of workers and the system of distribution of our social security. I would have liked to have had plenty of time to engage in a real and serious debate, recommendation on recommendation. I believe that pensioners and contributors cannot be underestimated and are entitled to this debate so that people know the clear positions of all parties. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u115	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Cabezón Casas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u116	Thank you very much, President. I want my first words to be in memory of the thousands of Spaniards killed by the pandemic, many of them pensioners and elderly. I take this opportunity to convey our regret, that of my parliamentary group, to their families, who have lost their loved ones in the worst circumstances. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in February this year President Casado offered Sánchez ten state pacts, including the pension pact. Since then, in my group we have not stopped for a minute to achieve this, because there are 10 million pensioners to give peace of mind, because there are 19 million workers who need certainties, because there are more than 3 million self-employed seeking confidence in the system and because there are 7 million Spaniards with savings deposited in complementary systems who want security. For all of them, President Casado instructed us to reach this agreement, both by seeing Rodriguez in the party and us in the parliamentary group. An agreement to give certainty and balance the system. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I was telling you that this is a very hard-working state pact and that we have not stopped until we have achieved it, and this shows once again that the PP is capable of achieving great agreements and this shows, ladies and gentlemen, that the PP is a party of government. [[The Vice-President, Pastor Julián, took the Chair.]] Allow me to highlight the work of the spokespersons of all the parliamentary groups and of the Bureau of the Commission, in particular I would like to thank its President, Magdalena. Thank you very much, Magdalena. To the lawyer, to Ignatius, to always find that word to approach us. And the whole Social Security team, too. Let me stress, let us highlight, that there is scope for agreements in this House and that the Spanish also demand them. And let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Spanish politicians are demanding solutions from us and not that we be the ones who create problems. That is what the People's Party is about, in providing solutions to the problems of the Spaniards. Since its inception in 1995, the Toledo Pact has been an instrument for defining our model of social security, which today also has a broad political and social consensus and which fulfils a primary mission: to serve as a working document for the future, so that, as the governing body, pensions are removed from the party debate. Ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for the Public Pension System and the parliamentary groups agree on the fundamentals, in the defence of the Public Pension System, on which I must say that we are proud, because the future of the pension system depends on everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, agreeing and reaching agreements requires a lot of empathy and generosity, it requires being willing to convince and not impose, it requires being willing to resign and it requires not giving anything for granted, it requires not presupposing, it requires alliances and it requires work. And it also requires that all these approaches that I have described above are in the will of those in front of us, that both parties be willing to make transfers and, ladies and gentlemen, the PP - as a party of state that it is - has shown, we know how to agree and we know how to agree. But the pact is not to swallow them and the PP will never accept them, ladies and gentlemen. In recent months, we have worked in the Commission, with current pensioners, young people, the self-employed, the disabled, immigrants, those over the age of 55, long-term workers and people who are very hard at saving to supplement their future pensions. But we also wanted to listen to the sector, the independent bodies, the AIReF and the Banco de España to make this Toledo Pact much better. We have made proposals for all of them because of responsibility with the Spanish and because that is what concerns us and concerns us. In short, we have worked on this pact seeking to generate trust and to give certainty to society. But we will not be naive, the recommendations are the framework on which the Government has to draw or draw normative development. Let us hope that the Government, which Mr Escrivá, will opt for a realistic, focused style that counts on us for normative development and does not drift into a surrealist style. They will allow me to explain why my group has put a particular vote to the recommendation of complementary systems, reaffirming our commitment to the development of business plans, but also ratifying our commitment to individual savings plans. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we asked to maintain the tax deductions from these mechanisms. In short, regulatory stability and fiscal stability to promote future savings as a complement to pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, the recommendations of the Toledo Pact are not perfect, and we know that. Since my group we would have gone further on some key issues, but we can proudly say that this agreement strengthens Social Security and its fundamental principles: the public system of distribution, intergenerational solidarity and a single box. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I say well, they reaffirm the principle of a single box and, Mr de Esquerra, it will not be easy for them to break it because they will always have us in front of them. [[Applauds]] The single box is a guarantee of social cohesion, equality and solidarity between Spaniards. Today, here in Congress, in this session, we are living two totally different ways of bringing forward two fundamental issues for Spanish society: pensions and the Education Act; two paths: consensus and imposition, and after listening in the Congress of Deputies, the home of all, arguments and explanations about the Celaá law, can not be allowed to be approved by cover in the middle of a pandemic, running, without dialogue, without the contributions of civil society, parents or education professionals, because what is at stake is the future of our young people. In contrast, there is the dialogue of the People's Party, with President Casado at the front, who has staked with this pact for pensions supporting these new recommendations, listening to the pensioners, negotiating with the political parties and with dialogue and contributions at the working table. What a difference! Ladies and gentlemen, what do you think the citizens are demanding of us, the agreement of the Toledo Pact or the imposition of the Celaá law? We've got it all figured out. I conclude, Madam President, with some final reflections. 'Nothing can be worse for a society facing a severe and prolonged economic crisis but losing hope and self-confidence, and creating unnecessary uncertainties about the main source of income for a very large part of its population. And few things can break that confidence further, such as that of failing to maintain the intergenerational pact that allows the continuity of society over time. Society must honour its moral commitment to its elders, and give them the sustained horizon in the time of adequate public pensions. In turn, the idea of an intergenerational pact implies the need to care for future generations who inherit the legacy that the previous ones transmit to them, and to which we must guarantee a realistic and viable horizon for their own long-term development.' What I have just read is a fragment of a report from the 2013 Committee of Experts on the Public Pension System, and I believe that we will also agree on this idea. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Cabezón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] At the time of fixing positions, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the first place, for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Recognizing the efforts of the members of the Toledo Pact, it is clear that I will abstain in the vote because I believe that the recommendations leave a bar to the action of this evil Government in question as sacrosanct as it is with regard to the public pension system. I would like to point out that the gradual delay until the age of 67 in the retirement age in view of the higher life expectancy is a measure that disregards the hardness of a long working life and does not facilitate the renewal of the labour market when youth unemployment in Spain reaches staggering data of 40%. Retrieve, Mr. Escrivá, the contract will be rescinded as soon as possible. The increased criminalization of early retirement also contrasts with the Government's efforts to tolerate and even promote the massive processes of pre-retirement that destroy the productive fabric without an alternative to work, as happened with the closure of mining. Ladies and gentlemen, the only guarantee of more and better pensions is linked to job creation. I doubt the ability of this evil Government to generate jobs when it is doing nothing to prevent their destruction; see the alarming drift from industry. I also distrust the economic measures and budgetary manipulations that lead to financial rescue and the loss of sovereignty. And finally, I miss a mechanism for updating the lower pensions that ensures the minimum purchasing power of our elders. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u119	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, after all the hazings and chryspas that we live here, today it is a huge satisfaction that on a subject that affects all citizens, they are as old as they are, they have the ideology that they have, they live where they live, we have been able to speak with serenity, work with serenity and arrive at a common axis and trunk to tell the citizen that, from now on, the government of those who rule in this country is guaranteed their pension, the government of those who rule in this country are going to be able to make their decisions to know when they are going to retire, when they are going to collect and what they have to do. But it does not end there, it begins today; it is the great responsibility of the Minister and the Government to start bringing here the legislative proposals that will bring about what we have agreed in the Toledo Pact. There is the Bureau for Social Dialogue with Trade Unions and Entrepreneurs, which is very important. It is also very important that the Government be able to have budgetary allocations for those things that come out of the financing of Social Security. And I want to talk about a topic that has always been the flag and battle of Coalition Canarias, because I was the first person who brought here, which is that of non-contributory pensions. And why did a canary MP bring him in? There are many new MEPs and they do not know that in the Canary Islands there are three times more non-contributory pensions than in the peninsula, especially because Canary women went to emigration, because Canary women in tomatoes never contributed, because in tourism in the first stage they were not assessed, and they are pensions of 360 or 400 euros. With the effort of this society and with the minimum living income we have to give dignity to women who do not work, as with most non-contributory pensions on the peninsula, but who have worked as mules all their life and who now have to have a decent pension. People who have worked for more than 40 years are left unattended. I have many friends who have entered from buttons or ujieres in Caja Canarias or in hotels with fourteen years old, which they still have a lot of years to quote. We must give a viable and just solution. It is a commitment that the Government must acquire and bring to the Congress of Deputies as soon as possible. As a member of the Canary Islands Coalition, I would like to thank Magdalena Valerio, former Labour Minister and President of the Commission, for her work, in which we feel comfortable with the Canary Islands Coalition, VOX, Podemos, Bildu, the Plural Group, the PDeCAT, the PP and the Socialist Party. One could speak freely and especially in the end there was a contribution from everyone. This society needs that today, because one of the worst things that has happened has been that people has precipitated their retirement decision with a penalty against the uncertainty and political war that took place at a certain time. The Toledo Pact was born so that the issue of pensions was not an element of electoral confrontation, nor was it born so that at some point...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u121	Your Honor, you have to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u122	I'm done. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Magdalena, for your dedication to this Commission, thanks to the spokespersons and thank you very much not only to the lawyers, but also to the staff of the Ministry of Labour, Migration and Social Security, who have been wonderful. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas González-Moro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u124	Thank you. Before assessing the contents, I would like to make three notes in relation to the context of how this report reaches the plenary. Firstly, we have been warning for a long time that European funds will be matched to counter-reforms and that pensions are always in these demands of the European Union, and this report opens the door to them. And two more questions of context. On the one hand, at the same time as the budgets, it is clear that one thing will cover the other; there is not enough talk of these proposals for reform of the pension system because the great political debate right now is the budgets. And, on the other hand, that the pandemic and state of alarm context was the worst for a sector such as pensioners, which has been intensively mobilized, especially through Coespe, to achieve political impact - in some respects it has been - and to continue to legitimately defend their rights on the street. After contextualizing this, I'm going to go into more concrete things about the content. As I said, it opens the door to regressive reforms and as far as progressive reforms are concerned, it does not set out concrete commitments. This is the case with the elimination of reducing coefficients. However, in other matters - I insist - it opens the door to counter-reforms. For example, it does not repeal the reforms of 2013 and 2011, and maintains the twenty-five years for the computation period. For us to get an idea of how we got here, when it went from two to eight years, it meant for the PSOE the first general strike that organized it, in 1985. Now we go for twenty-five years and this opens the door to the end of computing all the work life. Secondly, it does not set the minimum pension - already mentioned - at EUR 1084, which is what the European Social Charter recommends. Third, it does not consolidate the CPI as an indicator for revaluation. The wording quotes, but then opens the door ambiguously to other indicators being used. Fourthly, it opens the door to company pensions. And fifthly, the lengthening of the retirement age, a nonsense in a society like ours, with high unemployment rates. What needs to be done is to reduce working hours and increase wages, i.e. to distribute work and wealth. Many of these issues were reflected in the particular votes that have maintained left-wing forces, but all of them have been rejected. For these reasons we stand against the report and any of the future reforms that will bring us, which will be retreats for the working class and, in particular, for pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today should be considered a big day, an important day. It is not any agreement, it is not any procedure, it is not any objective that is intended with this agreement. A pension system, this or any pension system - beyond having a constitutional dimension here - is the axis on which the welfare state is based, which defines the social vocation of a State and which concretely defines the scope or the solidarity dimension of a society. Today we came here to validate an agreement. An agreement of the Commission for the Monitoring and Evaluation of the Toledo Pact specifying the scope or dimension of the political and social commitment to ensure the maintenance of the pension system. An agreement which is as plural and democratic as few things can be, which aims to be a channel on which to build later on all those measures and policies aimed at ensuring, through adequate and regularly updated pensions, the economic sufficiency of citizens during their senior years. Let me focus on this, on the agreement, on the great value of the agreement between different parties in the Toledo Pact, because that and not another is the guarantee of the system. All political formations know that they cannot and should not be alienated from an agreement that involves guaranteeing the public pension system and, therefore, the possibility of participating in the definition of its terms and characteristics. Plural, disparate, different, we are all aware of the importance of the pension system for citizens and no one, unless he makes a serious mistake, should be left out of the commitment of that pension system guarantee. Furthermore, we must be aware that all, absolutely all the measures envisaged in the report can be improved. It is no exaggeration to say that virtually everyone in this Commission could have given another wording, another twist or another meaning to many or to virtually all the recommendations of its current text and of the past as well, but it is equally true - I speak for myself, but I believe that I do so for all those who have participated - that the search for agreement and consensus has prevailed in the Commission's working groups because, in turn, we are all aware that not only in times of slump, but at any time the pension system has been the crux of the survival of many families. For this reason, we are all aware of the need to ensure their continuity and that for this to happen a key element, which is to generate confidence, is essential. It is imperative that those of us who represent them be able to reach agreements that involve a commitment for citizens to maintain confidence in the system. At this point I would like to refer to the particular votes, because we understand that the time in which we make our contributions was that of the debate on the text and that, although I can participate in some of them, today and at this time the particular votes only serve to give testimony of particular points of view which, being legitimate in some respects - like others that my group or myself has maintained - do not serve the purpose of giving confidence to the citizens, do not bring added value to the agreement. A different question is, moreover, whether the scope of some particular votes is aimed at questioning the basis of the system and, therefore, at proposing an alternative different from the existing one, which is legitimate, but at the moment it is opaque and ineffective. Therefore, this agreement is also relevant because, along with other aspects, it aims to accommodate different characters and people. Many collectives - autonomous, over 55, long-term unemployed, women, young people, disabled, migrants and others - obtain certain treatments that will be questionable, but which are the ones that have obtained a certain consensus. The agreement also confirms the main features of the system, which, in my view, are vertebrates, such as the public system of sustainable distribution, which guarantees economic sufficiency to citizens during their senior years. [[The lady]] It is public and of distribution and not only because the Constitution says so, but also because, without prejudice to its contribution nature, a commitment of solidarity in its threefold dimension - as recommendation 11 says -, generational, sectoral and territorial, which is the expression, after all, of the nature of distribution. The system maintained today by those who tomorrow expect to be beneficiaries and the repetition of this intergenerational guarantee is the realization of this distribution character and of that public character, and goes beyond the debate on the future of the nature of pensions. In addition, the recommendations reiterate their commitment to sustainability and sufficiency without having to establish, as has been falsely done, a kind of dichotomy or false alternation debate. With all due respect, that approach is absolutely wrong. In the end, allow two or three more sections of the recommendations to be highlighted. One, the complementary systems, which come not to replace but to complement them, precisely when we are all aware that the replacement rate tomorrow will be different. Two, that of the management of the system of recommendation number 8, where its new wording gives rise to overcoming certain centralizing and unitary vision where the block of constitutionality projects an inclusive and supportive vision, and in our case moreover, the compliance with the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, transitional provision fifth and article 18.2 of that statute. But there is one more thing I would like to highlight, and it is that, in my view, it has not been sufficiently highlighted that the pension system is a system in constant reform; not doing so would mean condemning it to have no future, and that is why the new wording of recommendation 20, which prompts the Government to appear, at least annually before the Commission, in the face of possible changes, is relevant. Okay, I'm gonna finish. There have been many people, the actors who have appeared and participated in the realization of these texts. I will not fail to mention, first of all, Magdalena for her outstanding leadership of the debate that has achieved this agreement, and it is important to point out it; to spokespersons like Ana, Iñaki, Genís, Jordi, Pau, Pablo, Mery, Tomás, and, of course, Mercè - whom I want to make not a special mention, because it goes for everyone, but it does highlight their work - to whom I send a great hug. But also Gerardo, Aina, Sergio, Ignaci and Carles - to which some have also quoted - because this text is the heir of another that was generated in the previous legislature. [[Mrs Valerio Cordero makes affirmative signs]] And why not, of course, I would like to give a very special recognition to the Commission's lawyer, Ignatius. Truly, without you things would have been different; you have helped us, you have been not only a participant, but also a supporter of this agreement. I hope, as a text says, that this will stimulate the mind and awaken the confidence of the citizens in their best and most important tool against the risk of unprotectiveness in the elderly. Needless to say, I will vote in favour, but I also hope that the House will be aware of the importance, the value to citizens of obtaining this agreement within the framework of the Toledo Pact. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Pita Cárdenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u128	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. A previous issue, a mention of pensioners, who have been the most vulnerable population and who have suffered this pandemic issue as no one. A mention also previous, special, how not!, to Mrs Magdalena Valerio: companion, you have done a work of empathy and extraordinary generosity. Thanks to the comrades, to all the spokespersons, to each and every one of them. I am always saddened and I always repeat this: if people saw us debating - and that is a democratic deficit we have in the Toledo Pact - surely, we would gain respect for our citizenship. We're still pointing at this deficit. I wanted to address this intervention to the pensioners who have been throughout this whole process of the Toledo Pact vigilant, encouraging and pushing and who today - as I have been told - are disappointed with the text: Santiago and the compañeros of the forty, Joseba de Navarro, Ramon, many of them. Needless to say, we understand and fit that disappointment. We entered the Toledo Pact with a previous agreement of the Government, a previous agreement in the area of pensions that obviously did not all - we would have liked to have the correlation of forces for that already - but yes many of those demands expressed in the mobilizations of the Coordinator of Pensioners and the various groups of civil society. This agreement - and they will allow me to remember it quickly - contains a Toledo Pact that guarantees the sustainability and sufficiency of the public pension system, a pact that talks about updating pensions in accordance with the real CPI, through law, on a permanent basis, and increases the purchasing power of minimum and non-contributory pensions; that talks about promoting the reduction of the gender gap in pensions and the revision of widow's pensions, guaranteeing equal treatment in cases of couples without a marriage bond; that talks about reviewing the gap coverage system and determining the regulatory basis to avoid harm to people with irregular careers; a pact that talks about downloading to Social Security those improper expenses that Jordi quoted, ensuring the sustainability of the system; that talks about reviewing the recruitment bonuses with the aim of reducing them, ensuring the maintenance of those who contribute to the integration into the labour market of groups with particular vulnerability, and of course talks about eliminating the so-called sustainability factor and the pension revaluation index. It is true that the text that is being brought to the House for adoption today is not our text, but it is a condition of possibility for the development of our government agreement on pensions. The Toledo Pact, you know, is a non-legislative Commission, it recommends. It is now up to the Legislature and the Executive to develop it, and we fully trust in the development of this government agreement. It's just a first step, fellow pensioners, we don't brag too much, but neither do we. The text makes it clear that the public system is sustainable, downplaying the interested account that it was unsustainable, and that it is sufficient to pursue the objective of ensuring the development of the decent lives of pensioners, of which our constitutional statement speaks. Nothing ends today. Today the task of legislating on the basis of the agreement begins. The struggle continues. We also want to send a clear and compelling message to all those who have pretensions or temptations of privatization, by whatever means, of our public pension system: we are not going to let the invisible hands of the market be made with our public pensions; we are not going to allow our public system to enter the jungle of the market, where they always - always - win the same. Not with us. Ours is a social and legal state - Iñigo quoted it - and there are rights won that should be out of question, because their sustainability rests on the very legitimacy of our democracy. Our duty, above all, as a political group, is to fulfil the mandate of our voters, who in this matter are summed up in a single slogan: govern who governs, public pensions are defended. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Pita. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u130	Today we present an agreement that is the result of the struggle of thousands of workers and pensioners who have pushed for the recognition that a pension is not a privilege or a gift, but a right; that we do not agree to lose purchasing power; that the system must remain public; that we want sufficient pensions to live and not to survive; that we must eliminate the brutal discrimination against women that is present in the system, and that we want guarantees that in the future we all have the right to a public pension. There were many objectives that our group had in this agreement; some have been met and others have not. Firstly, to guarantee purchasing power. No more loud letters announcing an increase of 0,25 %. Pensions will rise to the pace of life-enhancing, with the CPI, just as we had committed ourselves. Secondly, it reaffirms the public and solidarity character of the system. This agreement obliges the Administration to comply with article 50 of the Constitution. Private plans are, in any case, a voluntary option and this agreement favours linking them to collective bargaining. Thirdly, public responsibility and sufficiency. We know that for years the system cannot be financed by contributions alone. It was therefore essential to make it clear that the separation of sources does not imply that the payment of contributory pensions is limited to contribution income. On the contrary, it is explicitly mentioned that the general income of the State will ensure the adequacy of pensions. This was fundamental. Fourthly, it ensures the sustainability and transparency of the system. We've been hearing about the end of the public system for years and years. Well, there is a huge pool of spending resources that is paid with contributions and that responds to political decisions - legitimate, but political - of the different governments. These expenses will be placed in the General State Budgets, as appropriate; a proposal that gives solvency, security and transparency to the system so that there is no doubt that our system is solid and has a future. Fifthly, equity. The pact talks about bringing the effective retirement age closer to the legal age, which we do not share, but no person of retirement age will have to choose to extend his or her working life to compensate for a low pension, as possible modifications cannot break the principle of sufficiency. This was also fundamental. In addition, we open up the possibility of choosing the best years of contribution for the calculation of the pension and eliminate the fear of extending the period of calculation further, a very important issue for women or for those who have lost their jobs shortly before retirement. Sixth, gender justice. We have achieved compensation for the much higher contribution gaps suffered by women and the improvement of access to widow's pension in the case of unmarried couples, as well as the rise in minimums and non-contributory contributions which, as other female partners have said, affect women much more. And, seventhly, guarantees for the self-employed. The agreement states that they can contribute to real income. Guaranteeing decent pensions not only for current pensioners, but also for the people of my generation was one of the reasons why we decided to move from seats to Congress to redo that social contract. This agreement is an important step towards this; a step, as Mery said, but it would be absolutely unthinkable outside the era of bipartisanism. As I was saying, we adopted a framework that now touches on turning into reforms and laws and, for that, we need to keep pressure on the street. This Monday - and with this I ended - we were left by an incredible woman named Maria Salvo. A hundred years has lived. Of the PSUC, republican, of Initiativa, of the Workers Commissions; an anti-feixist militant of the ben petita. Not sixteen years he spent in prison, nor all the torture he had to suffer, ever erased his smile or democratic commitment. She was a finder of our history, a militant of hope. She may have told us today that step by step is on the way and that we will never fail - that I would certainly say - because to the public and to the common it is worth dedicating life, that is for sure. Thank you, Maria. And they're missing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Vidal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sáez Alonso-Muñumer has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will begin my speech by stating a commitment: VOX's commitment to ensure the sustainability, sufficiency, solidarity and equity of public pensions, VOX's commitment to guarantee the pensions present and those that will be paid by the more than eighteen million people who are now contributing. That commitment begins by telling the truth, not ignoring it, not hiding it. Let's talk about truths. First. The system is in red numbers. Since 2011, Social Security, despite significant current transfers from the State, has been experiencing continuing deficits. Data: in 2019, a deficit of 16 793 million euros, despite having current transfers of 15 645 million euros. Monday. In the Spanish state there is only one box. There is no box for Social Security and no box for the State, and to say the contrary is an accounting fiction and an absolute lack of knowledge of the rules of consolidation. Third. The deficit is not fixed, only transferred to the central administration. It is proposed to end the policy of loans through increased transfers, but it is not said that in order to finance such transfers the State has to apply for loans. Wake up, ladies and gentlemen. We have a state in debt of 1.3 billion euros, 114% of GDP. We owe much more than we enter, than we produce in a whole year. Fourth. The central administration becomes the key to ensuring the financing of social security. It is highly assumed that such a indebted administration will be able to provide funds in the medium term when social contributions are not sufficient. By the way, one of the points of innovative mechanisms that complement their funding is spoken of. That means raising or creating new taxes. Thursday. Public accounts are not sustainable. The European Commission places the structural deficit of the Spanish economy at the end of 2021 at 5.2% of GDP, compared to an average of 2.1% in the euro area countries. Public debt will exceed 120% of GDP by the end of 2021. Let's make numbers, let's not stay in percentages. If we take the government's estimates on GDP and deficit targets, we would be talking about a public deficit of EUR 124.9 billion in 2020 and EUR 93.4 billion in 2021; in total, EUR 218.3 billion more that we have to finance. Friday. There is no proposal on birth, although there is no proposal on immigration. Our fertility rate is 1.23, the lowest in the European Union, just behind Malta. Incomprehensiblely, Spain is, together with the Netherlands, the country that devotes the least aid to families and children. Seventh. There is no proposal to promote job creation or increase productivity. Ladies and gentlemen, if employment and productivity are not increased, the gap between contributions and pensions will grow and will require greater transfers. Spain has an unemployment rate of 16.2%, double the average of the euro area countries, an unemployment rate that will move by 2025 in 14.2 and 14.3, according to estimates made by the International Monetary Fund. Spain is the only country in the European Union that has recorded a negative correlation in recent years between gross value added per hour worked and economic growth. Eight. There is little roundness in defending the management of the single social security fund. Transferring management to the autonomous governments would be irremediably at the beginning of the break-up of the solidarity of the system and of the equality of all Spaniards in the field of performance. Ninth. Young people are asked to trust blindly. Young people must be informed, not hidden from reality. The reality is that youth unemployment is 40% and we have a per capita debt of around EUR 27 600. In the meantime, it calls for the full integration into the labour market of minors arriving in Spain without accompaniment, rather than empowering them to return to their families. Tenth. Spain needs to carry out a drastic reduction in political spending and the elimination of duplication. To this end, in VOX we have submitted a GNP to adopt the budget on a zero basis, a methodology that requires justification for each level of expenditure. With a zero-based budget, we will identify all unnecessary political spending and achieve savings. Those of us who have applied it in our work know what we are talking about. Where can you save? One idea: the expenditure budget of the autonomous communities, growth between 2002 and 2019: it has multiplied by 2.1; it has increased from EUR 90,418 million to EUR 191,673 million. Ladies and gentlemen, to be honest with the Spaniards is to tell them that Spain's problems are of sustainability of the public accounts as a whole, to tell them that if we do not do the structural reforms will be imposed on us from outside. To be honest is to say to the Spaniards that it was the Socialist Party that in 2011 froze the pensions to 6 million Spaniards and cut the salary of public employees by 5%. It is to be said that the cuts applied by countries such as Greece, Ireland or Portugal were between 15% and 40%. Being clear with the Spaniards means showing them that the only way to maintain or even improve the purchasing power of pensions is by reducing political spending and eliminating duplication. To be responsible, ladies and gentlemen, means speaking clearly to the Spanish and telling them that this report is a deception about the sustainability of the system, that any responsible party would not sign it, and VOX, ladies and gentlemen, is a responsible party.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u133	Mr. Saez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u134	I would like to end by thanking the President of the Commission, Magdalena Valerio, and the spokespersons, who appear and are counsel for the respect observed at all meetings. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u135	Thank you, Mr. Saez. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u136	Thank you, President. Good morning; good morning. Minister, who is fundamentally benefiting from this renewal of the Toledo Pact? It benefits mainly Spanish citizens: liabilities; pensioners, who will improve their pension; those who are active, because they will have guaranteed in the future the pension to which they have generated the right; because the purpose of this renewal of the agreement is essentially to preserve for our grandchildren a historical conquest from which our elders are currently benefiting. If I had to define in two words what this renewal of the pact means, I would say recognition and commitment: recognition of the need to preserve a public pension system, recognition of a history - ours - that of Spanish Social Security, which in the last twenty-five years has been an example of responsibility, but above all of recognition, ladies and gentlemen, that politics and only politics is able to find solutions to those who displace the market and offer shelter to those to whom their invisible hand only offers misery and resignation. Right, Maria Pita? I would also add that it will be the policy that makes the necessary reforms of these welfare systems possible. Without public support, it will not be possible to build, reform or consolidate pension systems. I fully subscribe to these words; they correspond to José Antonio Griñán Martínez, spokesman for the Socialist Group on 2 October 2003, a great socialist politician and a great person. [[Applauds]] Today, our social security system has been in force for 43 years and the Toledo Pact has been in force for 25 years. Our collective history: recognition and commitment, and I would say trust and certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, this pact is historic, it is a country pact, a pact that compels us all, from A to Z, to the elderly, young people, minors, women with disabilities, migrants and workers. Let's put ourselves in context. The recommendations should have been renewed five years ago and three legislatures have passed. We started from very confrontational, very polarized positions. Its cause: the breakdown of the political and social consensus of the neoliberal reforms of 2012 and 2013; let's remember the scant 0.25 or a dark sustainability factor, socially unsustainable reforms that are now de facto abrogated. These recommendations mark red lines, the President said: the radical transformation of our public system of intergenerational distribution and solidarity pensions is discarded; it is therefore rejected its replacement by another one of capitalization or private pensions. Let's be clear! Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of uncertainty, certainty. I address - and I send a strong hug to the people, to the families who have lost their elderly relatives - to our elders: the anguish over pensions is over, the CPI has come to stay. [[Applauds]] But I am also addressing young people: these recommendations, Omar, guarantee the protection of the present and the future, and this Commission will be vigilant. This four-year journey has been one before and after for many Members and Members of Parliament in these last parliamentary term, also in the present; politically, because the politics in upper case has returned to this House thanks to consensus, a great consensus; and, personally, learning what the social protection system is has been to know the greatness of our country, our welfare state, a Spanish engineering mechanism, which would say both José Antonio Panizo and Fidel Ferreras, who discovered it to me. These recommendations, as the President and many spokesmen have pointed out in a rigorous manner, lay the foundations for ensuring the sustainability of the pension system in the short, medium and long term - therefore, they do not serve those jokes that ending political spending we end up with the pension deficit; that is a hold-up that people do not swallow, gentlemen of VOX - and guarantee purchasing power: the CPI has come to stay. In addition, they adapt to this changing reality, said the PNV spokesman, to end once and for all with precariousness. These recommendations include migrants, which are key to the sustainability of the system. And also, to protect families, to solve possible inequities. We have spoken about it, said the spokespersons, people who die or couples of whom one of the members dies and who are unprotected, or people with long contributory careers who, for reasons other than them, have been subjected to the perpetual penalty of their pensions. And, of course, they eliminate or are on their way to eliminating great discrimination, especially gender discrimination. They certainly generate trust and certainty. These recommendations have begun to walk in these General State Budgets, which should also be a great state pact in this Chamber, and the spokesman, Adriana Lastra, said, of course: we would have to fight to see who is the first parliamentary group to support these budgets. I'm finishing up. These recommendations have begun to walk, as I said, in these budgets. The Socialist Group has voted no to the individual votes. We have our pension model, of course, but certainly the Socialist Group prefers to think that, given these models that have been shown here today, that there are different models and in many cases very polarized, this is a very important meeting point, it is a basis of agreement from the consensus, also from the discrepancy, but above all, to build. I believe that this debate has been an example. This text is a very important step for social consultation and to give a very important image to the citizens who are waiting for us. I'm done. I invite the members of the Toledo Pact to continue to be vigilant about what the Government is doing. I conclude, President, by thanking my parliamentary group for trusting me for these four years; the services of the House and, in particular, the lawyer Ignacio Gutiérrez, who has been a person with infinite patience; the ministry, and of course, I join the congratulations made by the President of the Toledo Pact to Minister Escrivá and, in particular, to Borja Suárez, Director General of Social Security Management for her maximum involvement, beyond her duties, and to the colleagues of these legislatures. I incarnate him in Aina because we were traveling companions on a little rough trip. Finally, I thank President Magdalena Valerio for her vehemence in defending the public pension system. We have learned a lot from her too, she is also a reference for this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u138	We turn to the items on the agenda relating to the opinion of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors on the Declaration on the General Account of the State for the financial year 2017, as well as to the resolution adopted by that Commission, and to the opinion of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors on the Declaration on the General Account of the State for the financial year 2018, as well as the resolution adopted by that Commission. Both points will be discussed cumulatively. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor on behalf of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u139	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, President. Incidentally, I believe that for the first time practically, it is necessary to see in this Chamber, in the Congress of Deputies, the general account and, in turn, the processing of the General Budgets of the State. This chance gives us an opportunity to make some assessments and - I am also telling the government groups - to try to make some ad futurum corrections in relation to the budget. It is true that it is the general account of 2017 and 2018, in 2017 with Government of the People's Party and in 2018 with budget of the People's Party and Government half of the People's Party and half of the Socialist Party. Therefore, do not take it as a reproach to each of your groups, it is only to be seen and that this applies to all groups, because some issues need to be rectified. [[The lady]] Beyond entering into the valuations of entities that have remained out of the general account or not, which are still too many, I will focus my intervention on the following valuation. When the general account is made, many valuations can be made, but it is good to make an assessment of how the budget that is being settled and that has been incorporated into the general account has evolved. When you value the budget, you have to assess whether it was well done; and to assess whether it was well done, you have to look, first of all, at whether or not many changes have been made in the budget and in what areas they have been made. We find a situation that is not new, that is repeated and that I will not tire of reporting. Programme budget, programme budgets 12, defence. Initial budget, 7568 million; budgetary amendments, in 2017, 1283 million euros of amendments to the defence budget, representing 17%. An amount is budgeted in the defence programme and changes are made by 17%. Does that happen in all programs? Well, no. Let us see some examples that I have chosen because they will also be illustrative in other respects. In the industrial programme, changes of 5.31%; in the trade, tourism and SMEs programme, changes of at least 0.06%; research, development and innovation, changes of only 2.13%. In 2017. Therefore, the Ministry of Defence is poorly budgeted, which is increasing. That's a fact to correct. Let's see how the budget is executed. Is it run equally in all programs? We'll see you don't. Ministry of Defence, expenditure committed in relation to budgeted expenditure, 99%. The Ministry of Defence is diligent, capable of executing virtually all of its budget. In Industry, the diligence is not so much, 89 %. Alarmant, trade, tourism and SMEs programme, 47 %; not even 50 % of the budget is implemented. Research, development and innovation, exactly the same, do not run 50%, only 48%. In defence, 99%; in industry, 89%; in trade, tourism and SMEs, 47%; in research, development and innovation, 48%. This was because the PPs were very bad managers and misbudgeted. What happens in 2018? Well, a very similar thing. The defence budget is also increasing; less, of course, it is not increasing by 17%, but it is increasing by 12%; the industry budget is only increasing by 5%; the trade, tourism and SMEs budget is shrinking again and the research, development and innovation budget is exactly the same. But how does it run? How do the PP government and the Socialist Party government implement this budget? The diligence in defence programs remains the same. In Defense 99% of the budget that is increased is executed. This diligence in Industry is going to be reduced: in 2017, 89 % and in 2018, only 77 % of the industry programme is implemented. 47% of the trade, tourism and SMEs programme is implemented in 2017 and 48% in 2018; only 49% of the research, development and innovation programme is implemented. We are now doing the budget and we will have to take this into account because in Catalonia we know that the important thing is not budget, it is, but the important thing is to execute. That the governments' diligence in implementing defence budgets is 99% and that of research, development and innovation, or trade, tourism and SMEs budgets does not actually reach 50% is a deficit that we must correct, especially the government. As I want to be fair and not completely criticise everything, I must make, even if it is posthumously - posthumously as a minister, not as a natural person - a certain recognition to Minister Montoro because from this rostrum I harshly criticized him, especially in 2017, regarding the revenue budgets, which seemed to us at that time overvalued, and now one can see that in 2017 97% of the tax revenues budgeted and in 2018 96% were finally settled. [[Applauds]] I hope that this will help us all to improve, in the parliamentary procedure, and above all in the implementation, with a view to 2021. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor. [[Pause]] He's not gonna step in. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u141	Good afternoon, Madam President, dear colleagues, and staff of the House. Today it is up to us to address the accountability of the Court of Auditors for the 2017 and 2018 financial years, with the Government of Don Mariano Rajoy, and the transition and grace period of the incoming Government, of Mr Sánchez's first Government. What is the Court of Auditors' opinion on? It speaks of non-integration into the consolidated general accounts of some entities, it speaks of lack of individual accountability by the corporate and foundational public sector; it speaks of out-of-date presentation of the annual accounts and many other shortcomings in the liquidation of the consolidated income budget, budget implementation shortcomings or lack of complete inventories of the immobilized assets of the General Government of the State. Well, with this what? From here, what? From here on, we are going to approve the Court of Auditors' opinion, we are going to give our approval to this monitoring carried out and, what else? We can do a lot of things. We can do what, regrettably, is done repeatedly and has been done in the Court of Auditors' Follow-up Committee, which is to protest the delay in the accounts, when we know for sure that this is far more the responsibility of this House than of the Court itself, because we are responsible for the procedures and delays to a large extent for not properly regulating it. We can do what we are seeing in previous interventions, that is, a sort of rear-view mirror control of the previous Government; legitimate function, but sterile function to the extent that that Government has already lapsed, initially with a motion of censure by a new parliamentary majority and, subsequently, because it has been sent to retirement, to say the least, by the citizenry with its vote. Therefore, we are not going to waste time on sterile issues. A third thing that we could do and that probably some of our colleagues are going to do is take advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid and using the accountability of 2017 and 2018 to kick ass against the 2020 government. Most likely I'm getting ahead of the events we're going to see. In any case, bad parliamentary practices or, at least, parliamentary practices that add nothing and do not contribute. Our role, for what citizens pay us, is to provide solutions and move forward. In what way do we have to move forward? We need to move forward by proposing positive things, and we are not going to propose anything exceptional but to pick up what the specialized forums demand, all the international forums on audit entities. Thus, the international forum, Intosai, meeting in Moscow in 2019; the European forum, Eurosai, meeting in Istanbul in 2017, or the Spanish forum, that of the OCEX, meeting in Barcelona in 2017, all of them say that external control is needed, that these supervisory entities not only have to address compliance, but also the management of public budgets. That is, we are always talking here about what are the objectives of the policies we propose and the effectiveness, the level of achievement and the achievement of those objectives are never evaluated, so we do not have an efficient monitoring of the extent to which these budgets are achieving the objectives that were being set. It is not just about making an inventory of good and bad practices, it is not just about seeing what the problems of budgetary control are, what the accounting problems are, but it is about knowing what the real impact on society is on the budgets every year, and that we do not have, so we are not properly fulfilling that role. A second added function is that of international forums, particularly the academic sectors critical in this area. What do you propose? That it is not just a question of seeing these shortcomings, these poor budgetary practices, but to see to what extent these bad practices are related to a fundamental problem, to an essential problem, to a systemic problem of corruption, because behind many of those practices corruption is hidden. As these academic areas point out, it is not only a question of analysing corruption from the perspective of the corrupt or the corrupt, but also from the perspective of the corruptor, because, in general, when there is corruption and when there is systemic corruption and nesting in institutions there is someone who corrupts. And in this country we continue to look elsewhere, we still do not want to identify the lobistic activity that is exercised on this same institution and on the rest of the institutions of the State and do not want to know that it is the powerful, that it is the political-financial powers that are making derive in all the countries of the world, of course, and in all the institutions what should be the general interest in particular interests. We are the number 13 country in gross domestic product of the world, we are the number 26 country in human development index and, if we consider the variant of equality, we become the 38 country of the world. That is, we are a country that is less fair than developed and much less developed than rich. Respect for the institutions and respect for political action are absolutely essential for progress in development. Indeed, if this Parliament, if these institutions do not start to respect themselves, it is very difficult for us to keep pace with our level of development at our economic level and at our level of wealth. If we continue to drag the institutions, if we continue to give more peculiar shows of schoolyards of malcreated children, it is very difficult for us to move forward. We have to look at the most advanced countries in Europe, at those who make policy proposals, at those who look at their problems of corruption, at those who look at their institutional problems. We have two magnificent institutions of which we have been endowed with the Constitution, such as the Court of Auditors and the Ombudsman, two magnificent weapons of which this legislative power has at its disposal in order to be able to do its job properly, so that this country can live up to what it must be. Unfortunately, at the moment, these are what I call - in our visit to the Court of Auditors I told the President - two magnificent Ferraris parked and unused. We have two institutions to which we are not drawing the juice to create a better State, a more decent State, which is worth leaving to the next generations. We're not using... [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u142	Your Honor, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u143	Thank you so much. I'm done, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u144	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u145	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this rostrum gives the VOX Parliamentary Group the opportunity to express what no other group has ever said here with complete certainty: that the guarantor of compliance with the rules does not comply with them. I could talk about the lateness of the public sector or the average period of payment to suppliers, the bad endemic and tip of the iceberg of a sad reality, fruit of the management of the various governments of this nation, and it is that, among many other reasons, for issues such as this almost 4 million Spaniards have given their confidence to our political project to improve the institutions of the state and to get families, citizens, bearing fewer burdens, to receive better public services so that, in short, this great nation becomes the agile, dynamic and competitive economy that every compatriot longs for. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the statements of the general accounts of the State for the financial years 2017 and 2018 again reflect another year's greater shortcomings in the compliance with accounting standards, in the lack of accountability in terms of information, transparency and time and in the collection of revenue that entails management costs; yes, ladies and gentlemen, an entropy that results in having to collect more so that the euro demanded by the private effort of the Spaniards can be spent on what is promised. Different criteria for imputation of obligations and rights, overvalued consolidated results, lack of inventories of public assets and a long etc., something unthinkable for the private sector, which could only make these mistakes under the yoke of sanction and fine. What is the point, therefore, of maintaining an excellent Court of Auditors, which does a magnificent job, whose annual budget is EUR 70 million, which is paid for by our taxes, which, in order to improve public management, makes the same recommendations year after year if then the person who has to carry them out continues to make the same mistakes? Continued recidivism highlights the absolute lack of diligence of those who should preach by example. We are in the usual situation: to demand from the administration what the Administration is not able to carry out. [[Applauds]] I'm just going to give them a piece of information. In the 2018 account there are exceptions for the Court of Auditors quantified at almost EUR 50 billion, which accounts for 12% of the total net consolidated obligations recognised or which would also represent more than 8.3 million income declarations, i.e. the money of more than 8 million Spaniards taxed by IRPF would be subject to a doubtful accounting exercise in the eyes of the Court of Auditors. But the most serious of all is that the caveats and recommendations are repeated repeatedly after declaration and year after year with the same common denominator and without any government of sign or color - red or blue, blue or red - taking letters in the matter to tackle the problems of scope and only cover minor issues. All this happens systematically, while the citizen on foot is attacked and humiliated with phrases such as: there is a lot of tax fraud or the Spaniards do not pay enough taxes to maintain public services. And it is, ladies and gentlemen, that no matter what parliamentary group it is that urges the government to change things. So far, governments have alternated with one another - so much rides, so much rides - and they do not finish doing when they are in the government what they used to ask to be done when they were opposition. [[Applauds]] Where I said, I mean Diego. Today, all groups seek to urge the Government to make improvements to the general account of the State, and some of them, who have put forward motions for resolutions, look forward to the general budgets of the State under way, despite the fact that we do not know what will be the specific destination of the immense expenses to be incurred, the lack of effective control over them and the lack of awareness of the financial position of departmental services and public bodies. These opinions adopted are two opinions of consecutive years, with motions for resolutions in many coincident cases and some of them already raised in previous years. The perceived desire is certainly serious, especially in the light of the tax increases that this Government is going to prepare, paradoxically, without being accompanied by any measure of rationalization and efficiency of the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, have you seen that the executive mastodontic that governs us has presented some rationalization measure in the budgets that it intends to adopt? I certainly don't. Does it include some of the resolutions contained in the opinions of previous years, such as the follow-up to the measures and actions carried out by the idle Commission for the Reform of Public Administrations? Ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group is quite clear. It is of paramount importance to make the effort to apply the budgetary methodology on a zero basis as soon as possible. That is why, as my fellow Member has already said, on 4 June we presented a non-legislative proposal to the Committee on Budgets, urging the Government to implement this methodology. We are faced with new times, even more difficult than we are sadly living, which require structural reforms, and a good recipe would be to start by making a budget adapted to the moment. Spain has a major structural challenge inherent in the public sector: the improvement of its institutions, efficiency in the management of public administration and in the use of resources, optimising information in decision-making, achieving a reduction in the public deficit in the medium term and improving the efficiency in the exchange of account information and accounting data with the General Intervention of the State. I'm done. As the Socialist Group has tabled several motions for resolutions, in line with what I have just said, this parliamentary group hopes and hopes that the motions for resolutions tabled today by the group supporting the Government, namely its own prescriptions, will be applied by the Executive on a voluntary basis and without the need for the Court of Auditors to recommend it again and, therefore, be reflected in the general account for the financial year 2020, although the evidence shows that they will do exactly the opposite of what they promise. Well, that's it. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u146	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. I see that the spokesman for Podemos continues to try to control our interventions. How he likes the control of opposition to his party. Firstly, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for its work in these reports. From the point of view of a novice in this Commission, I have to say that it is overwhelming to read and analyse his reports, not only because of the reports themselves, but because of the amount of information, data and work I have in mind behind the Court of Auditors and the whole of the Spanish administration, a great deal of work in the interests of transparency, control and control. We think it's worth it. After all, it is everyone's money, not anyone's, as a socialist badge said. That is why I do not understand the position of those groups that support the Government who have voted against this control, this control and this transparency. The Bureau of the Commission will decide on the appearances and reports that we have requested from the various groups; one Bureau which has three components of the Government and two of the People's Party, the opposition, and we know from what we have seen during these months that control, control and transparency are not the main qualities of this Government. I think the rest of the groups are wrong to leave these decisions in their hands. I was talking to them about the enormous work of the reports, and for that reason we are aware of the difficulties that these are perfect; and with perfects I mean that there are no breaches either in form or in substance of any administrative body or discrepancies between them and the court. But this which we can consider a goal to achieve, we must also know that it may be impossible. That is why we must welcome improvements to the general accounts of previous years, because it is very difficult and these improvements respond to a difficult task for many civil servants. First, we are pleased that the report is being made more and more quickly, although we continue to call for the necessary studies to be carried out to promote legislative reforms and the adaptation of material and human resources that are necessary to shorten the deadlines for accountability and the adoption of the statement on the State's general account for each financial year. We are also pleased with the improvements in information and in the actions that are being transferred to us year after year, but we remain concerned about the shortcomings that are being detected over and over again and that are reflected in the successive declarations of the general accounts of the State and in the resolutions of this Commission. That is why I asked the President - and I ask all of us - what we can do to make definitive progress on these issues, how we can improve the collaboration of the General Intervention of the State with the court and both of them with this Joint Commission. I also asked him whether there were joint working teams between the Court of Auditors and the General Intervention. We believe that there should be them and that they should report to this Joint Committee on their work to confirm that significant progress is actually being made, as we have been calling for. And finally, if it is possible that even in the reports there are the maximum responsibility for those departments that make mistakes. The President of the Court of Auditors concluded her intervention on the 2018 State General Account by saying: The declaration ends with the same proposals to the General Courts that contained the final declaration for the 2017 financial year, but the incidences have increased in 2018. The kings of transparency, the Socialist Party, made the data worse. In addition, the consolidated budget result in 2018 is overvalued by 2292.8 million euros and therefore worsens not only the shortcomings that the court analyzes, but the budget itself. Let's compare 2017 and 2018. In 2017, the deficit forecast was 3,10 %, with the People's Party government closing it by 3,03 %, i.e. 7 hundredths less deficit. By 2018, however, the forecast was 2.20% and closed by 2.53%, 33 hundredths more deficits, even though, as Mr Bel has said, the revenues were quite square. As for the expenditure rule, it was met in 2017 by all administrations except the autonomous communities. On the other hand, in 2018 the General Administration of the State was incorporated into this non-compliance. The debt target was met in both years. I think 2017 we can consider it a good fiscal year, not so 2018, and we will see the general state account of 2019, knowing that the projected deficit increased by more than one percentage point and that after six years of economic growth and reduction of the public deficit the socialist government again increased it. If it goes in your genes, gentlemen of the PSOE. On some motions for resolutions that our group tabled, we do not understand the vote against the Government and the other parties that support them, because they are proposals that seek to comply with the legislation by improving transparency and accountability or following the direction of the court; we do not understand it. Finally, I would like to talk to you about the Social Security Reserve Fund, because the Socialist spokesman in the Commission, in her speech on the 2018 State General Account, criticized the management of the People's Party and said that we had squandered the fund. He said it was a fund for a specific situation and not a structural situation. And I ask the Socialist spokesman: weren't the 3 million unemployed they generated in their government a specific situation? Did they intend to leave them as structural, that is, forever? When we arrived at the Government we knew that we could do so on a short and non-structural basis, and we did so, recovering more than 2 million jobs; if they had left us a few more months, we would have all recovered. On the other hand, then minister Valerio, today a partner in Congress, pulled back from the bottom in 2019. And another thing I say to you: of the countries that went through the worst economic and financial crisis - Ireland, Portugal, Greece and Spain - the only country in which pensions have not been lowered has been Spain, thanks to the use of the Reserve Fund. I do not say that, says Don Octavio Granados, Secretary of State for Social Security with the Socialist Government. And it says more about the use of the Reserve Fund at the end of 2017: It is used and well used. I'm sure you know more about the subject than you do. The other option is to grant a loan to Social Security. The difference may be in financial costs, and perhaps that is the reason why the fund was used in these years, to save the State financial costs and thus reduce the deficit and debt. Doesn't that sound like a laudable target to you? The truth is that seeing these General State Budgets that they have submitted for 2021 I'm sure not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u148	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Ramón Utrabo. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u149	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to say to the spokesman for the People's Group, as I have already said to the Commission, that the decisions taken by the Bureau of the Joint Committee are as sound and legitimate as those taken when the majority of that Bureau was in the hands of its party or its Government. I would also like to say to the spokesman for VOX that I am glad that in his speech on this occasion he did not compare the State with the private company, as did the Commission; something is something, because I believe that the difference is quite significant and remarkable. Turning to the issue, today we bring to plenary the Commission's opinion on the reports on the 2017 and 2018 budgets, which are discussed jointly. These reports do not usually identify indications of liability of any kind, because this is a financial control and compliance with accounting rules in which the Court of Auditors gives its opinion on the general account of the State and the exceptions are indicated, if any. It is very relevant because it accounts for the implementation of the budget and the economic or property performance of the State, among other issues. I must also highlight, as we did in the Commission, our congratulations to the Court of Auditors because this is the first time that the objective of approving this account has been achieved within the six-month deadline. It should be made clear that these accounts relate to a budget drawn up by the Government of the People's Party and largely implemented by that Government. We do not approve this budget and these reports give us reason. We are now in the process of a general budget for our country, a serious budget, balanced in its revenue and expenditure and, more importantly, the most social budget of our recent democratic history. The exceptions in these reports are virtually the same in both accounts. One of the issues raised by the Court of Auditors is that deviations continue to occur between the initial budget estimates and the net entitlements recognised in the settlement of the revenue budget. The entities that do not surrender are many and persist at the present time. The General Administration of the State continues to lack complete inventories, with an important part of the immobilised material remaining to be included in them. The situation and developments in public debt are also noteworthy, but I would like to point out that the Court has a special impact on the balance of social security assets on both accounts. For the second year in a row, its balance sheet shows a negative net worth in December 2018 of EUR 33 260 million and in 2017 of EUR 13 720. The solution adopted to meet ordinary expenses - and it is not a criticism, Mr Spokesman of the People's Group, but it is the reality - has been to use and squander the Reserve Fund during the years of the People's Party government. In 2017, 10,192 million, and in 2018, 13,380 million. I would like to stress that during the years of the People's Party government - I insist, it is not a criticism, but an objective reality - this Reserve Fund has been virtually eliminated. And, yes, this reserve fund was to cover a specific situation and not a structural situation of lack of funding as pointed out by the Court of Auditors itself. From 2012 to 2018 there have been a total of 77,437 million of that Reserve Fund. The financing of the social security system must be adapted to the nature of protection. The financing of the social security system needs capitalisation, and we do not say so, says the Court of Auditors. Social contributions should be intended exclusively to finance contributory benefits, without prejudice to contributions that the State could make as guarantor of the system; yes, right-wing gentlemen, guarantor of the system, which is what differentiates public management from private management. There are expenses that Social Security is assuming that should be made with contributions from the State, such as employment policies, non-contributory benefits, financial burdens on the system, such as aid to specific productive sectors, through the anticipation of retirement age in certain activities, or bonuses to the contribution in certain special schemes or systems for young people, etc., such as policies linked to family protection and the reconciliation of family, personal and work life, which, although very necessary, do not have to be charged to these contributions. The inactivity of popular governments during these years to solve this situation has given a totally alarmist and distorted image of the system, which has caused much uncertainty in current and future pensioners and has generated unnecessary alarm among the population as a whole about the sustainability of our pension system. That is why I am pleased to see today that these reports, in which the Court of Auditors had such an impact on our social security system, come to this House when we are also discussing the renewal of the agreements within the Toledo Pact. The Socialists have done what the Court of Auditors recommended. [[Applauds]] That is why I would like to congratulate my colleague Magdalena Valerio and all the political forces that have made this coincidence possible today so necessary to guarantee our pension system and, I insist, to end that unnecessary alarmism that you have contributed to generating. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ramon. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in five minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, before voting, the secretary will first read out two institutional statements. The first, on the 30th anniversary in Spain of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the second, on the Declaration of 9 March as the Day of Missing Persons without Apparent Cause. But let me, before starting this reading, remind you that today, in addition, eighty-seven years ago the day when Spanish women were able to vote for the first time. Since the presidency of the House, I would like to remind Clara Campoamor and the other people who fought to prevent the construction of a country by cutting off half of its citizenship and making a full democracy possible in Spain. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u152	Mr. Secretary, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u153	Thank you, President. Institutional declaration on the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Spain. Today, 20 November, Universal Day of the Rights of the Child, the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies wishes to reaffirm its unanimous commitment to the goal of ensuring that all children can prosper, learn, make their voices heard and achieve their full potential. This universal day marks the date on which the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child. A convention that is the most ratified international human rights treaty and recognizes a number of rights of children, including those relating to life, health, education and play, as well as the right to family life, to be protected from violence, not to be discriminated against and to have their views heard. A particularly relevant commemoration this year 2020 at the end of 30 years since Spain signed and ratified the treaty. In Spain, the role of the convention over the past three decades has been fundamental, driving legal, political and social changes that have led to the improvement of the lives of children inside and outside Spain. However, despite the many advances, many challenges still remain in the area of children in our country. Our country is the second country with the highest child poverty rate in the European Union, a poverty that now affects more than two million children. School drop-out is particularly high in our country and is especially concentrated on boys and girls with a more disadvantaged economic situation. Other rights also require greater momentum, with the need to eradicate violence against children. There are currently more than 18,800 reports of suspected child abuse per year. Another fundamental challenge is the role of children in society, betting that their voice is heard in all spheres, betting on stable and permanent channels that allow them to exercise that right. The socio-economic consequences of COVID-19 are particularly affecting the most vulnerable children, widening gaps in inequality and worsening their living conditions. The Congress of Deputies therefore wishes to reaffirm Spain's unanimous commitment to respect, defend and promote the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as to redouble its efforts to address the main challenges facing children in Spain. For that reason, we appeal to the Spanish Government, institutions and society as a whole to move towards the eradication of child poverty, to promote equitable access to education, to promote meaningful participation of children in decisions concerning them or to establish a legal framework for comprehensive protection against violence against children, among other issues. In addition, the Government of Spain is urged to continue to make progress in the full implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, in its knowledge and dissemination, as well as in the implementation and implementation of the concluding observations and opinions transferred by the Committee on the Rights of the Child to our country. - INSTITUTIONAL DECLARATION WITH REASONS FOR THE X ANNIVERSARY OF THE DECLARATION OF THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPARTMENTS OF THE 'DAY OF DISAPPOSED PERSONS WITHOUT APPARENT CAUSE'. [[File number 140/000005]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u154	This November marks the 10th anniversary of the unanimous adoption in the Congress of Deputies of the Day of Missing Persons without apparent cause on 9 March, a declaration that added to the desire of thousands of people and families affected by cases of disappearance, heat, support and recognition of the Congress of Deputies. On the occasion of the tenth anniversary of this declaration, the Congress of Deputies wishes to renew this recognition to persons affected by disappearances without apparent cause. It wishes to reiterate its unanimous support for families suffering from these dramatic situations and to show its institutional encouragement to the Security Forces and Bodies responsible for preventing, investigating and resolving these cases. In these ten years there has been significant progress in the visibility of this cause, in the provision of services by the different administrations, in social sensitivity and in police coordination, which, together with the constant push of associations of relatives of missing persons, have placed Spain among the reference countries in the attention to this problem. But it is necessary to continue to make progress in improvements in family assistance, police specialization and the adoption of a specific legislative framework, as already addressed in the Special Commission established for this purpose in 2013 in the Senate, as well as in the parliamentary days held in this House in 2018 and 2020. For this reason, on the 10th anniversary of the Day of Missing Persons, the Congress of Deputies wishes to express its support, in a solemn and unanimous manner, for the disappeared persons, with the rights and demands of their families, as well as with the constant work of all those, associations and police and judicial bodies, who are in the process of resolving and clarifying disappearances. Madrid, 10 November 2020. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u156	We started with the votes. No-law propositions. No bill of the VOX Parliamentary Group on the application and development of article 3 of the Spanish Constitution by adopting the necessary measures to ensure the duty to know the Spanish, the right to use it and its application to natural, legal persons and to all public administrations and institutions of the Kingdom of Spain. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 102 plus 240 telematics votes, 342; 64 telematics votes; 102 plus 175 telematics votes, 277; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u157	The non-legislative proposal is rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the creation of an independent authority for economic recovery. [[File number 162/000405]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u158	No bill by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the creation of an independent authority for economic recovery. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 240 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 33 plus 62 telematics votes, 95; against, 69 plus 126 telematics votes, 195; abstentions, 52 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u159	The non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u160	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion resulting from an urgent call by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the measures taken by the Government to curb the COVID-19 pandemic in Spain and minimize its effects. The terms of the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the VOX Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group were adopted. [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 240 by telephone, 342; in favour, 33 plus 113 by telephone, 146; against, 69 plus 126 by telephone, 195; abstentions, 1 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u161	The motion is rejected. - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the regulation of rental prices [[Madam Vehi Cantenys]] IN THE FIELD OF A FUTURE LAW ON RESPECT. [[File number 173/000040]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u162	Motion resulting from urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group concerning the regulation of housing rental prices through a future law on this matter. [[Mrs Vehí Cantenys]] The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Republican Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common. [[Mrs Vehí Cantenys]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: in favour, 102 plus 240 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 11 plus 52 telematics votes, 63; against, 91 plus 182 telematics votes, 273; abstentions, 6 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u163	The motion is rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the European Union and cooperation to prevent the grave aftermath of the image of the Kingdom of Spain in the outside world. [[File number 173/000041]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u164	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on actions by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation to prevent the serious deterioration of the image of the Kingdom of Spain abroad. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 240 by telephone, 342; in favour, 33 plus 112 by telephone, 145; against, 69 plus 126 by telephone, 195; abstentions, 2 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u165	The motion is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u166	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 2/2006 of 3 May 2006 on Education. We are voting first of all on the Commission's opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] When the vote was taken, the voting was as follows: 102 plus 240 telematics votes, 342; 69 plus 109 telematics votes, 178; against 33 plus 114 telematics votes, 147; abstentions, 17 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u167	The opinion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u168	The vote as a whole is taken on the organic initiative. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 240 by telephone, 342; in favour, 69 plus 108 by telephone, 177; against, 33 plus 115 by telephone, 148; abstentions, 17 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u169	Accordingly, the draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 2/2006 of 3 May 2006 on Education was adopted. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u170	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 33/2020 of 3 November, adopting urgent measures to support entities of the Third Sector of State Social Action. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 239 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 68 plus 168 telematics votes, 236; against, 18 telematics votes; abstentions, 34 plus 53 telematics votes, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u171	Consequently, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 240 by telephone, 342; in favour, 33 plus 129 by telephone, 162; against, 69 plus 110 by telephone, 179; abstentions, 1 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u172	Consequently, the Royal Decree-Law will not be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 32/2020, OF 3 NOVEMBER, APPROVING SUPPLEMENTARY SOCIAL MEASURES FOR THE PROTECTION OF UNEMPLOYMENT AND SUPPORT TO THE CULTURAL SECTOR. [[File number 130/000033]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u173	Royal Decree-Law 32/2020 of 3 November adopting complementary social measures for the protection of unemployment and support for the cultural sector. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 102 plus 240 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 102 plus 210 telematics votes, 312; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 29 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u174	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 239 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 33 plus 128 telematics votes, 161; against, 69 plus 109 telematics votes, 178; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u175	Consequently, the Royal Decree-Law will not be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u176	Reports of Standing Committees. Vote on the report on the evaluation and reform of the Toledo Pact, adopted by the Commission for the Monitoring and Evaluation of the Toledo Pact Agreements. We voted on the Commission's report. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 240 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 102 plus 160 telematics votes, 262; against, 2 telematics votes; abstentions, 78 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u177	The report of the Commission was adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u178	Declaration on the General Account of the State. Vote on the opinion of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors on the declaration on the General Account of the State for the financial year 2017 and the resolution adopted by that Commission. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 237 telematics votes, 339; in favour, 102 plus 212 telematics votes, 314; abstentions, 25 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u179	The opinion and the motion for a resolution of the Joint Committee were adopted. - OPINION OF THE JOINT COMMITTEE ON RELATIONS WITH THE COURT OF AUDITORS IN RELATION TO THE DECLARATION ON THE GENERAL ACCOUNT OF THE STATE OF THE YEAR 2018, AS WITH THE RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE JOINT COMMITTEE. [[File number 250/00003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u180	Vote on the opinion of the Joint Committee on relations with the Court of Auditors on the statement on the State General Account for the financial year 2018 and the resolution adopted by that Commission. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 236 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 102 plus 211 telematics votes, 313; abstentions, 25 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-18-CD201118-bis.u181	The opinion and the motion for a resolution of the Joint Committee were adopted. Very good afternoon. The meeting rose. It was four and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
