ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the speaking times of the parliamentary groups. Take your seats, please. Let us continue the debate. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u2	Men explain things to me; summary of yesterday's plenary session. Yesterday we were confirmed the murder of a thirty-seven-year-old woman in my land in Mallorca. The men of VOX will never read the names of the victims of sexist violence in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] I ask for a minute of silence for Habibe and for those who are no longer [[Some honourable Members stand up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u3	I'm sorry, Mrs. Muñoz, but I am the one who is ordering the debate. I want you to proceed, please, with your speech. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u4	Your proposal, Mr Abascal, is a project that does not hear the cry of millions of women who go out on the street every 8 March to say that we want to live. You deny the reality, and the reality is that, in 2020, 37 women have been murdered at the hands of their partners or ex-partners, and you are not able to look me in the face when I'm telling you. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I confess that I believed that none of what you said yesterday could impress me. After almost a year of barbarism-free bar and chulesque and threatening attitudes, I thought they had reached their limit. What an illusion! I believe that yesterday Mr.Abascal reached the Guinness record in bubbles per minute, and see that his admired Trump had put the bar on him very high. So I wonder, are you all right? Are you sure we are talking about this country and this government? What happens to you, do you think you can go speak on behalf of Spain by handing out cards of good and bad Spaniards? Is it believed that the rule of law and public freedoms are what Bannon sends you every week from the United States in a newsletter? The truth is that, as one of the youngest Members of this House - I have not been here for as long as other ladies and gentlemen who have been here for several decades - I wonder whether this distance between that speech from 'to me the thirds' and the reality of the country is normal. Do you know what I think ordinary people are seeing? That the week of more contagion since the pandemic began, with dozens of confined municipalities, with the country's capital in a state of alarm, when you expect responses from this Parliament, you set up a theater. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen, you're making a fool of yourself. Of course, the situation in the country is serious, but I doubt very much that the reasons you have listed are the same as those of the normal people in our country. I doubt that Mrs Olona or you yourself have ever felt the breath in the back of precariousness. Chaining temporary contracts for more than a decade, not being able to emancipate, not being able to afford to form a family or live in social exclusion, this is the reality of hundreds of thousands of young people and families in our country. Fortunately, we now finally have a Government that acts and wants to create a more just future with opportunities in our country. You have tabled a motion of censure in the midst of a pandemic and in the midst of a very complicated economic situation. They want to censure a government that has been working from the very beginning, that has set up a social shield, that has set up ERTE and that has put in place a minimum vital income. Do you remember the 2008 crisis? It's possible they didn't notice her very much. Then the government of Mariano Rajoy saved the banks before the people and you gave them economic shields from the bars of Esperanza Aguirre. The misfortune of that logic is that you then funded yourselves to come here today, while the consequences of the crisis on families and our small businesses continue to suffer today. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that by now you will have realized that the United Nations can not support your motion of censure. It is obvious, but we have made it very clear to you because it seems that Mr Abascal has not yet found out. When women say no, it's no, and it's only yes. [[Applauds]] Yours is not a motion of censure, yours is a motion of destruction and, in the face of your proposal for destruction, here is a Government that is trying to rebuild the country as soon as possible; in the face of its lack of proposals, here is a Government that has responded and will continue to do so; and in the face of its hatred, we only have to continue to work for the prosperity and consolidation of the social measures that are being implemented. Ladies and gentlemen of PP and Citizens, you whitewash and even implement where you govern VOX proposals that undermine the foundations of our democracy; imperfect democracy, but plural and diverse. That's scary, VOX is scary, you guys are scared. Most people feel terrified just by imagining Ortega Smith as Minister of Health, who said that his Spanish antibodies were going to defeat the Chinese virus, or Mr Espinosa de los Monteros carrying the Ministry of Finance as the works of his own house, or Mr Abascal as president declaring war on China because you would be able just as your admired Aznar was capable. You are afraid because you claim hatred and violence as your own, and that puts your party where we all understand it is located, in fascism, and PP and Citizens as accomplices. The point is that this threatening attitude does not remain as an echo on the walls of the Chamber, but rather gives the impression that you are using this rostrum, this failed motion of censure, to point out from here your opponents and political enemies and wait for your squadroners to act violently on the streets and in the neighborhoods of our country. We saw it very recently in the Madrid neighborhood of San Blas. We saw it very recently in the Benimaclet neighborhood of the Valencià Country. Luckily, in front of every squadroner, hundreds of citizens... ladies and gentlemen! [[protests]] [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u6	With such a loud cry, with such a loose gesture, you take away the dignity of this House... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u8	... and turn Congress, the seat of national sovereignty, into the afterlife of democracy. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, freedom is not declared to sound, to shout and to point out borders between who is Spanish and who is not. If freedom is freedom to spread in the midst of a pandemic that has taken many lives - too many victims in our country - then they do not know that freedom without respect for others and without coexistence is simply selfishness and, if they already accompany it with threats, it is simply bullying. If you like this country so much, learn that there are many other ways to be Spanish. As Pablo Ibarburu says: You expressing love for Spain should not frighten me. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. I give the floor to Mrs Fernández Castañón.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u10	Thank you, President. Spain: Aida Lafuente, María Teresa León, Maruja Mallo, Neus Català, Carmen Mayore, Matilde Huici, Dolores Ibarruri, Carmen de Burgos, Dolores Medio, Margarita Nelken, Clara Campoamor, Victoria Kent, Federica Montseny, Encarnación Fuyola, Encarna Montoya, Trinidad Bustamante, Anita Sirgo, Tina Pérez, Celestina Marrón. And not only them, hundreds of thousands of those who wanted to erase with great effort and great repression during decades of history, all the pioneers defending democratic and republican values, rights and freedoms: feminists, anti-fascists, anti-Franchists. They put the body and the life so that we can talk about democracy here today. They set a horizon and we are daughters, granddaughters and great-granddaughters - and also children and grandchildren, yes - of all those Republican pioneers. This government that they attack by system and without foundation walks with firm passage towards that horizon; this society walks with firm passage, violet glasses, green handkerchiefs and class consciousness. [[Applauds]] Three years ago my parliamentary group tabled a motion of censure to clean up the institutions, to say that the institutions had to rise to the standards of citizenship, to say that a government presided over by a structurally corrupt party, by that mysterious character M. Rajoy, was inadmissible. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And it turns out that three years ago the premises were laid for us to have a progressive government today that in the midst of a pandemic brings social measures, brings retributive equality, brings memory, brings labor rights, brings minimum living income. [[Rumors]] And the VOX Group, in its line, that line of blockage and parliamentary vagrancy, brings this motion to'make a house for them', because that is what they do in the House, a lot of noise and few proposals. But it's true that they bring a proposal, I'm going to tell them because they didn't make it clear yesterday, it was a little hidden. His proposal is that of a worse country. They propose a worse country because they have decided to call consensus progress on human rights. What kind of person can be allowed to despise human rights? For only the one who understands that his way of life depends on the exploitation of other people. [[Applauds]] For this is what you understand as liberal: to me that you do not force me to be supportive, to my son that you do not educate him in diversity, to me that you do not touch only one of my privileges; and this of climate change, you will see, is that I do not get the empathy to think of the next generations and the world that we are going to leave you. So these ideas can only be sustained by two questions: that you have economic resources far above average and an absolute lack of human empathy. You may be so at the bar bar, which is more or less the level of speech that you bring to this House - and, by the way, to see who can stand you - but it is that you are pretending to rule with this motion of censure. Imagine a government that says the land is flat, imagine a government that denies Machist violence. By the way, the next time you deny the machist violence that the 1070 women killed by their partners or ex-partners have been playing in this House since 2003 and many other women also killed by machist violence. [[Applauds]] Moreover, I tell you one thing, Mr. candidate, never again deny the existence of Machist violence. Neither do they deny the climate crisis, nor do they deny labour rights, nor do they deny international treaties, and do not continue to deny that there was a dictatorship, that there was a coup d'état against the Republic and against democracy, as the Secretary-General on public television two days ago. You deny diversity and any day, if you rush me, already put, the same deny even evolution. They come with the motion of censure with less support from history. They want to rule Spain, but one thing happens, they don't like practically anything about Spain; they don't like their languages, they don't like their villages, they don't like their diversity, they don't like their neighborhoods, they don't like their people, they don't like their cultures. [[Applauds]] And they don't know the history of this country because the history they know is basically the one they have of their predecessors, who were very busy treasured everything they could of the Francoist expolius. It's normal that you don't want to hear about historical memory, lest you have to scratch your pockets. But it turns out that this country is diverse, and we are very proud that it is a country of countries; we are proud that different languages are spoken and no one is excluded from it; we are proud to say: Freedom cannot be found in the law, nor in the walls, nor in the coffins itself; We are a people's sun; Rights and liberty; Ez gara bat, askó gará; 'There is the magic and it can be of all', 'the people are the ones who order the most'. [[Applauds]] This is the country of the 15-M; it is the country of the tides; it is the country of the PAH; it is the country of the 8-M; it is the country of the Fridays For Future; it is that of Maria Mercè Marçal; it is that of Rosalía de Castro; it is that of Maria Zambrano; it is that of Xosefa de Xovellanos. It is a country to which Luis Cernuda wants to return; a country from which no anti-racist activist has to go; a wide country in which we all have room, even you, and which advances, which advances in rights, advances in democracy, advances, as much as it weighs, towards a feminist republic where the only thing that does not have room is their hatred. [[Applauds]] In the face of the country that we are, of Spain that we are, of the country that we are proud of, you present this motion of censure to destroy it and to return it to eighty years ago. Stop covering with flags their privileges and their hatred. Leave that smoke and mirrors trick, that game in which smoke is this motion of censorship to camouflage that you are parliamentarians who do not work, and mirrors are the flags with which you seek to cover your shames. At such a difficult time, have decency and get to work for the citizenry, which is what this House is for. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor. Dear Aina, welcome. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen and from the members of the Government, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u12	Thank you. The last time I stepped on this Chamber we elected the President of the Government. Today it seems, rather, that it is in dispute who will be the head of the opposition. Nine months have passed, that was a beautiful day, despite the noise that tried to install the right; a bright day, of hope, not only because it constituted a left-wing government that we had so many fought for, but because this Chamber showed its humanity and showed that this is not only a bronc space where politicians on both sides dedicated themselves to insulting each other bitterly. We show, at least the vast majority, that there are things that are above all like life or solidarity. Let us do more, especially in days like today; we defend respect, hope, love, as a country project, as the basis of our relations and actions. Today in the Chamber hatred is breathed, because just as love and respect can be a country project, hate can be a country project. Hate, distrust and selfishness are VOX's country project. This motion of censure does not seek a change of government; nor do they approach the majority, and they know it. Nor are they concerned about the mismanagement or good management of the crisis. They come to generate noise, chrispation, confrontation. Its goal is basically to put coexistence at risk and create chaos. That is what you come to do, because you need mud, if not, you cannot live; because we are facing an absolutely radicalised, extremist right which does not accept democratic norms, which does not recognize the legitimate government and which uses that health crisis to erode it. They want to use basically the fear, frustration and hastyness that we all feel for them. Fear cannot be patrimonialized; that is miserable. These last six months have been very hard for the majority: for our grandparents and grandmothers, for the people who live alone, for the children, for the parents who have had to live with them; for the invisible workers who are paid for poverty and who, from night to morning, have become essential workers, that is, without paying a single euro; for those who are in ERTE and for those who do not have that kind of luck; for the workers of SEPE, who with absolutely minimal resources, thanks to the cuts of the previous government, have had to respond to an allusion of applications never seen; for the self-employed, for the small entrepreneurs; for those who have lost some family member and the pain of loss we added the nightmare of having to decide who from the family could go or not to the funeral because we were more than ten or, worse, without even being able to say goodbye; for the cancer patients and autoimmune diseases, which we have also experienced a double confinement for the sake of the first couple, for the sake of the first couple, for the sake of health, for the sake of the first couple, for the first couple, for the sake of which we could not. Six hard months in which we have all felt anguish and fear and great uncertainty and we still have it: fear of losing home, health, work. That is why they are bringing this motion now, because they want to be ashamed, they want people to be suspicious of this Parliament, and they want to do so by taking advantage of our legitimate fears to generate hatred, to poison our brains. Fear is natural, we must not ignore it, it is a mechanism of self-defense; the key is how and what answers we give to fear and make it clear: in our fear we send ourselves. [[Applauds]] All of us, all of us, feel anger and pain, all of us, but our response is based on solidarity and on developing an economic model compatible with life, not racism. We face a challenge that we don't know everything about and that we certainly miss a lot to see. This crisis is in no way like 2008, its origin is not financial; in fact, the COVID is probably nothing more than an accelerant. This is a crisis of transformation at all levels, of the state, institutions, businesses, school as well; so the question is not so much who pays as who leads this transformation, with what interests and above all with what principles. This government wants to lead and wants to do so by putting solidarity, equality, human rights, our public services, ecology, feminism and the descarcation of our lives as principles that preside over the transformation, because it is not enough to reverse the cuts of the previous crisis; a modern country must be built. [[applause]] For this we have fought in Europe, to agree on resources, to lead the social and ecological change that Spain needs, to continue raising the social shield and, in the face of that, the revolt of the 'Cayetanos' arose and, in the face of the possibility that the government's strategy would be more equity and more social justice, a small group in Núñez de Balboa told us that they were not willing to take on the part of their efforts. The revolt of selfishness came to say that they do not help; of course, they have no fear of public health being saturated. VOX has not made a single proposal to improve people's lives since the pandemic began, nor one, in this motion. While people in the industry and normal people organized themselves to produce masks or breathers, VOX generated sham; while Nissan workers organized themselves to defend their jobs, VOX encouraged revolutions with golf clubs. What you have dedicated yourselves to is to generate rift, confusion and darkness, a lot of darkness; your contribution is basically to create a climate conducive to aggression and harassment for ideological reasons, such as the one that continues to suffer from Vice President Iglesias and Minister Montero. [[Applauds]] But there's something that the VOX cops don't understand that they send them to their house, there's something they don't understand: that our strain is of Titans. [[Applauds]] Their respect for Spain is more authoritarianism and close their eyes well before everything that bothers them, blind to territorial diversity. VOX would charge the autonomous communities with a feather and municipalism because - they say - they are superfluous expenses; what they do not say is that today cutting in autonomous communities is basically cutting in the welfare state, is cutting in health, in education and in social services, which are the autonomous competences. His imperialist drive - apart from being unconstitutional - is yet another expression of the hatred they have for the other. They violate the freedom of citizenship to be recognized within a territory with identity, language and institutions of their own. Blind also, of course, in the face of climate change and, in this case, their negationism is dangerous. In the words of the European Environment Agency, there is a direct link between environmental degradation and disease growth. Deforestation and climate change influence the emergence of viruses and the expansion of pandemics. That's what they were actually warning us in 2014. Blind to women's demands, we don't understand why we have to keep waiting to have the same real rights as our colleagues. Blind also in the face of precariousness because here we are presented with a neoliberal fantasy where the market will already take care of fixing everything he has usually destroyed; the law of the jungle. Blind and back to Europe, at least to democracy. Blind also in front of the numbers - or that or we are absolutely fooled - because tell me without tax collection how we will guarantee our public services, how we will improve our health, how and with what funds we will face the transformation challenges. And blind, with my back I'd say, also to our neighborhoods. I will use a few words from my partner, María Freixanet, who said: What an unbearable level of class and racial violence there is in multicultural foreign words! What a shame! Blind to illustration and progress. There are many things we don't know about this virus, but what we are learning is that there are policies that work and others that don't. Trump doesn't work: conspiracy, lies, superstition. A couple of days ago he surprised us and said to his electorate, "Don't vote for Joe Biden; if you vote for him, he'll listen to the scientists. That's Trump, that's VOX's reference. Help doesn't work; hiding what you don't like under the carpet doesn't seem to help stop the virus. You know what works? Cooperation between people and between institutions works, social dialogue and ERTE works: thousands of families and businesses today remain afloat because of this. Moratoriums of eviction work, which have basically allowed, unlike the previous crisis, citizens to maintain a roof. Negotiations with Europe have worked to ban austerity and to reach a historic agreement to revive the economy. And in the meantime, what was the right hand doing? What were you going to Brussels for? To conspire against your country, to harm the interests of Spain. While the President of the Government and the Minister of Economy were working for a great deal, the right was working to make the situation worse, not against the Government, not against his country. And this has a name, ladies and gentlemen, disloyalty and betrayal. [[Applauds]] The right has again applied an old recipe that Minister Montoro told us in 2012 - he escaped -, said: Let Spain fall, that we will already raise it when we govern. Therefore, if you do not govern, you wish the country - your supposedly beloved Spain - any kind of calamity. That's how patriots are you. A country is its people - this is very clear - and on the right it doesn't like people. And that is continually demonstrated by you, for example, in yesterday's vote in the Senate in which you voted against a front against hunger. That's what VOX is. Do you remember Andrea Fabra? His words still resonate in this Chamber. "Fuck you!" she said in this Chamber the day the cuts in unemployment benefits were approved. "Fuck them!" he said; "Fuck the people who had lost their jobs because of the crisis." And that's what they keep doing exactly where they rule. Fuck you! Speak, Vallecas or Usera; fuck!, for workers, for poor, fuck! Fuck it! Long Knight too, fuck it! [[Applauds]] Out of the historical memory, because in order to be able to command you need to erase the memory, so that we basically forget what happens when you rule. Breathers, trackers, doctors, no, fuck it! [[Rumors]] Do not be nervous that those words were spoken by a person of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] In this Parliament there is a huge void, that of a right with a sense of country and a sense of state. Today, the role of a country-wise right is being exercised by the CEO - alone - by reaching agreements with the rest of the social partners and this government. Today we are not just here to reject this model of right-wing country and this infamous motion. No, today won't be your day, Mr. Abascal. Today we are here to reaffirm a democratic commitment to human rights and freedoms, and we are also here to send a clear message of tranquillity, of security, of hope to all the people who are listening to us, because in our fear we do not command VOX, in our fear we send ourselves. [[Applauds]] The country is not built from hatred. No country can be built from hatred, so you will never be able to rule, because you want a piece of cloth more than the women and men we make up this country. We want courageous policies, we want serenity, dialogue, listening, science, industry, research, culture, love. We want love. Citizenship must know that, although we face difficulties, it is not alone, because we are working here to make everything work out fine. No distraction; let us show that this Government's commitment will not remain in good words, but will bring with it a transformation project. Next season: budgets. I'm done. Many victors have been heard in this House lately, many. I'm going to propose two: Long live life! And live the joy! [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and of the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. Finally, I give the floor to the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Ms.Maestro Moliner. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u14	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen democrats of the CEDA, nostalgics of the dictatorship, members of VOX, we look forward to another of the great ridicules sponsored by your party. At this terrible time of global humanitarian crisis, you are using misfortune to campaign. Of course, their humanity and height of sight leave much to be desired. 'Electoral fraud, extortion of the third world': either its jurists skipped many classes of law or pretend to deceive us all. They were lost first of law and they bring us here today first of fascism. 'Chinese Virus'; the virus has been granted nationality! Of course, they are the advanced students, but they completely obviate the contribution of the State and its Government to the fight against this pandemic, also in Spain. But as long as we have to rebut their occurrences, I must tell you that, in the face of their proposals, as my colleagues have already said, this government is betting on uncomplex public services. You, the adalides of privatization, together with the People's and Citizens' Party, are engaged in confrontation and strife. This Government has dedicated itself to strengthening the social shield and prioritizing public health, and you bring your mediocre air of greatness with this motion of censure to a legal, but above all legitimate, government, regardless of what it weighs. They conclude their document with a fierce criticism of the Memory Act. Aren't they trying to prevent the crimes of more than four decades of terror from coming to the conference? Because I'd like to read the names of all those victims here, too, but most of them are missing and in corners and, on top of that, I'm afraid it would take months. Of course, I won't ask you why you didn't do it in the other session. It is my duty to tell you that reparation for the damage caused to the victims and the recognition of those who gave their lives for freedom is the responsibility of the State. Indeed, historians will already be involved in history, so stop insulting the intelligence of the Spaniards by equalizing victims and executioners. [[Applauds]] Of course, their reference historians not only have in common not having studied the history career, but they learned from Francoism what Francoism learned in turn from its Nazi allies: that a lie repeated a thousand times becomes truth. But, knowing that his references on the subject are the pseudohistoric Fernando Paz, who had to resign from VOX's candidacy for his denialist statements of the Holocaust, or his press officer, Juan Pflüger, who defines Francoism as the return to the greatness of the imperial past, with all this they claim to be a tortician exercise of manipulation, and they want to make us see as a murderer a worthy worker leader like Largo Caballero, and they also bring back the myth of Passionaria's threat to Calvo Sotelo, who never existed. Ask the Journal of Sessions or consult the press of the time to see if they find anything, but they will not find it, because it is simply a lie. In fact, what bothers you about this law is precisely the truth, because you are ideological heirs of those who rose up against the legally constituted order, with the help of Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy, but not only ideological heirs, because not in a few cases you are also direct relatives of those who drowned in blood in Spain for more than forty years. But let's talk about Spain, because you say you defend what you really hate. They hate Spain that is early and they want to condemn it to an unworthy life, they hate Spain that fights to keep its work as Alcoa or Nissan, they hate women, who relegate us to domestic and caring jobs, they hate our elders, and they claim to receive pensions of misery, and they hate the Spaniards of the nationalities, who make up our homeland and speak languages as Spanish as Spanish. I am proud - and I say this here - of belonging to the Communist Party of Spain, which contains two terms that you hate: Communist and Spain. And I conclude, President. You're not worthy of being Spanish. Paraphrased the historic secretary general of my party, José Díaz Ramos, those who use the flag of patriotism, those who prostitute our country, those who condemn hunger to the people, those who subject to the yoke of oppression to 90% of the population, those who dominate by terror are neither Spanish nor advocates of the interests of this country. I'm afraid history won't absolve them, otherwise it will condemn them in any case for high treason. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.-Applause of the members of the Government, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Master. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u16	Mrs. Vidal, I'm glad you're with us. [[Applauds]] Ladies of Podemos, who are moving towards a feminist republic without the applause of the president of the government, who was frightened in that case, you do not represent women, you are women, but you do not represent women. [[laughs]] [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] We have seen you, ladies and gentlemen, and your compañeras shouting rudeness on the streets, but the vast majority of women in this country are not like you. They don't storm chapels, they don't insult or assault cops, they don't ask people to die on the street: 'Madrid will be the tomb of Abascal'. They don't shout rudeness on the street: 'A menstrual cup in the mouth of Abascal'. [[Laughter]] The MENA don't call their children. They're sensible enough to say that if they're kids, what they have to do is hand them over to their parents. If you want to raise them in tribes, it's your problem, and you really want to make them believe that you represent independent women, and that's why only women come out here today to do a caricature of a macho character, just because the alpha machito has ordered it? Is that why only women come out? [[applause]] [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you also keep your cell phone card? When you're going to negotiate the money with Iran, do you take it with a veil or don't even invite it? [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] I don't know if you noticed that yesterday President Sánchez changed his speech on false allegations of gender-based violence. They didn't exist before. Yesterday he said there were very few of them. Of course, I suppose it's because yesterday we knew the condemnation, benevolent indeed, of that mafia who is called Free Childhood and who was dedicated to abducting children by falsely denouncing their parents, that mafia of which you were accomplices, because you brought her to this House, you brought her to Congress of Deputies. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] I did not like to hear what you have said about us or what you have said particularly about me, I do not enjoy it, and I regret that you use you to attack us in that way. Women have to believe them all the time, don't they? And then why did they have the shame of saying that a VOX deputy had invented an aggression? Why did Mr. Echenique order you? [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are women, you have all my respect, but you do not represent women, you do not represent the women we know, you do not represent the women of our families, you do not represent the deputies of other political groups, and you do not represent millions of Spaniards who would never vote for you, and of course you do not represent the girls protected and abused in the Balearic Islands. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the stand.- Rumours.- Various Members: Bravo!]] Let me conclude with an act of justice for Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group. You have come out to say that we were vague, and it says Podemos, that in this legislature you have presented 149 initiatives. [[laughs]] Do you know how many VOX you've presented? 1039, excluding the 6,000 questions for government control, Your Honor. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u17	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u18	Mr. Abascal, the phrase is: 'Madrid will be the tomb of Machism'. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I understand that with 'Madrid will be the tomb of Machism' and with this motion of censure it seems to me that you think it is the center of the world, and it is not. [[protests and applause]] I'm going to ask a question to your ladies at the VOX booth. Every time you talk about lifting a blind, have you ever raised a blind? Look how they raise their hand! Do you know what it weighs? [[Several Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group raise their hands]] [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u20	Do you know what it's like to go down the blind, up the blind, down the blind, up the blind, what it weighs, every day with the cold and the uncertainty? Every time you say that about stepping on the street, do you mean Usera? You mean Vallecas? Are you referring to those who have confined the Madrid Community Government, which you support, perimeterly, absurdly and ineffectively? Or do they refer to multicultural terns? [[Applauds]] Shame. Every time you say 'Spain at dawn', have you taken the subway at six o'clock in the morning? Have you waited for the FEVE with all the shell? Don't you realize - that you have to be screaming to say yes, that it is true, that once, that I also have a friend who is gay - that his words are a sea of plastic? [[Protests.- Several honourable Members make affirmative gestures]] [[laughter and applause]] Look, you can do what the Falange did, you can go to the bars and then take that as an argument. But you know what? That, in the end, the trap resuscitates, as they say on my land, because the only time I see Mr. candidate here at first, in Congress, at 9:00 in the morning is when he has to intervene. And that's what this motion is about, asking for prominence, because you don't bring a single proposal for this country of countries, for the country you want, for the citizenship you want, for Nuñez de Balboa, if you rush me; you don't bring a single proposal. They want to speak for the people, but they vote against the social measures brought by this government. Look, they are very concerned about our suit - which I think is a more classy comment than anything else, because we come with all the dignity and all the decency to represent the citizen - by the workers of this House, but you voted against repealing sick dismissal in March. [[applause]] So it seems to me that the workers of this House and this country are much more concerned about defending their labour rights than about how we come dressed and dressed in this House. [[Applauds]] You announce as the apocalypse the destruction of Spain, but if for you and for your policies it would destroy the entire planet. Seriously, seriously nuclear energy as renewable energy? Can't you at least google before you talk? [[Applauds]] Look, the dissonance is such that you can see the cardboard. You guys are dicks, heirs to the Francoist expolio, playing to be franchisors. And I'm going to list why with examples. Espinosa de los Monteros, his great-grandfather's brother was ambassador to Nazi Germany, appointed in 1939 as military governor of Madrid, and under his command were the temporary concentration camps where those who defended constitutional legality went. The monastery clan has its position thanks to the connivance with dictatorships in Latin America, the real ones, not the ones you invent. And Abascal, well, for Abascal is another heir to the families of victory. Here in Congress, don't be mistaken, don't work. Man, you are the opposition, it is good for you to present initiatives! We present them in the Official State Gazette. [[Applauds]] And how are they going to work if they haven't given the water a stick! His proposals for public policies, those that arrive, those that are proposals, are the parliamentary loren ipsum, they say nothing, they have no concreteness and often show an absolute lack of knowledge with what has been done to date. But I will recognize something, because it is true that there are things that do good; for example, blocking the House's activity this week in the midst of the pandemic. That's what you're doing very well. [[Applauds]] I suppose the goal was to show up - I don't know if the aim of showing up has gone so well for them, this is equally questionable - but above all they block every day all the hours that make us waste in the House saying not systematically to the functioning of the House itself. They do not come to change the policies that are made, they come to block the activity of the House, because this House works to respond to the needs of the citizenry, and you have no interest at all. What you're doing is a ridiculous Berlinguian and you, as I told you before, have small Spain. His ridiculous has precedents and has references, a great reference for you is Donald Trump exceeding the quotas of infamy every day and about to be repudiated by his own country in an electoral way and, by the way, we know just yesterday that he pays more taxes in China Trump himself than in the country he presides, where he leaves puphos. So this thing that pays China maybe has to do with the patriotism that you practice. Trump is ridiculous with his orange face and Chaplin taught us with great mastery how ridiculous Hitler looked, and, in fact, the voice of dictator Franco sounded quite ridiculous, but, you see, this notes something important: that it can be ridiculous and at the same time be dangerous, and the speech you have is dangerous; it is. In this motion they are alone, but in the danger of their speech not; in the danger of their speech is the photo of Columbus. I wish the photo of Columbus was a point, but since then it has been an escalation of virulence, of aggressiveness, of questioning of human rights in which the People's and Citizens' Party also participate. People's Party and Citizens are ruling supported by VOX, which is ruling supported by the declared ultra-right, by those who each day engage in attacking human rights and democratic principles. They are its partners, it is a reality and cannot be denied, it is called Andalusia, it is called Murcia, it is called Madrid. VOX says abortion is a crime and Mrs. Arrimadas' party says abortion is a failure; VOX says that in eighty years this is the worst government, legitimizing the Franco dictatorship, and Mrs. Arrimadas said yesterday that neither Francoist nor fascist, that taxidermist. But, you see, it is not about what is said, because unfortunately one has already found that many times what is said has no value; it is about what is done. To govern thanks to those who deny sexist violence is an anti-democratic complicity; to govern with those who criminalize children alone from other countries, in a very vulnerable situation, is an complicity contrary to human rights, to govern with those who claim the goodness of Francoism is an complicity against the Constitutional Covenant. [[applause]] But they don't want us to talk about that - about unsustainable inconsistencies, better not to talk about it - let's talk about the banter, the banter in the House. Well, delighted, but if we do it without false equidistance, that here we are not all the same, that here we are not all the same. [[Applauds]] Because we have heard barbarities yesterday and today, and the benches have been listening respectfully, because we respect the institution, because we respect popular sovereignty and because we respect the space of privilege given by this rostrum to defend ideas with the word. Suddenly the rift is terrible - well, I agree -, as the spokesman of Citizens denounces, but to me if I do not deceive neither my eyes nor my ears nor let go of the noise of the bench of the right, I think I remember that that same deputy has taught supposed curricula vitae of the spokesman of the Socialist Group in a threatening way, he has laughed at people in the gallery in a gesture, and he has even done what he has never seen, that it is to insult in a demonstration those participating in it, to then be able to become the victim and be the bride at the wedding and the dead at the funeral. [[Applauds]] Let the maera - which we say in Asturias - go to be the victim in front of the LGBTI community, which continues to suffer discrimination and aggression because of the mere fact that it is. Look, they talk more about us than our speeches, and it's a shame, I say it to you as someone who has devoted most of his life to thinking about language as an element of transformation, but according to whom words are seen to be of little value. And something else is happening. It doesn't just happen that speeches with nice words are carried away by the wind, that sometimes speeches encourage the scare. VOX's speech recalls a pot where there is boiling water in full boiling, and - it is true - usually in the end the water evaporates and what remains is the burnt pot. Right, VOX is probably that burnt pot. But something else is happening. It may be that as long as the water is boiling, as no one is watching that pot, suddenly someone is thinking of throwing it, tearing up the whole kitchen and making a latch, and then we have, in addition to a burnt pot - which would be just the problem of the VOX bench - a kitchen made a disaster, which is a collective problem, and I will explain this to you because it is good that those who are ruling with the support of VOX in Andalusia, Madrid and Murcia know it. Make it clear that this goes beyond the fact that Mrs Olona is a snob who makes herself a self-righteous self in front of a vandalist painting of the statue of Long Knight who prays 'Red', because that is simply ridiculous, but what is not ridiculous is that yesterday you have created a whole argument to be saying that those who defend human rights and those who defend democracy can be susceptible to being targeted by attacks and aggressions. [[Applauds]] That's getting out of your hands, and if you're not getting out of your hands, I'm very clear what it is then, but I want to think that it's getting out of your hands to you and to those who are ruling with the support of VOX. It's getting out of hand, and that's a concern, a danger, and something that scares the whole citizenry. That's dangerous. That's why our rotundo doesn't - and I'm done, president - for us. By the way, I am not representing all women, I am representing more than 100,000 Asturians and Asturians, specifically - you know how that also works for representation in the House -. [[Applauds]] We say not by ourselves and by all those we represent, by all people who do not understand that with all the task ahead we spend two days wasting time, for all those who do not want neither hatred nor ignorance nor superstition nor chrispation in their lives or in networks or institutions. This not that we tell them is also the not that women and men who put their bodies and lives in order to bring democracy, freedom and rights here would tell them, so with memory, with the future and with the responsibility to work for the people, we tell them no, and we continue. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.-Applause of the members of the Government, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u22	So you represent those who don't want hatred or chrispation. Who'd say! Who would say, Your Honor! Do you know what is the only party that has held a convicted man for violence against women in his office? The party with which you govern, the Socialist Party, which held in his office a condemned for violence against his wife, in particular for providing several umbrellas to his wife, Mr. Jesús Eguiguren, president of the Socialist Party of Euskadi and, by the way, one of the architects of the negotiation of surrender of State institutions with the terrorist band ETA. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Indeed, it is very easy to repeat a lie many times to turn it into truth. You have done so, and I have been tempted to have the sound of the cries of the mobilizations that you call in by these loudspeakers, where it was said 'Madrid will be the tomb of Abascal'. I have retweeted it so that all of you, the whole House and all of you who are listening to us can see it right now. How dare you tell a lot of Members that you do not even know whether or not they have raised the blind? How dare you do those cartoons? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? [[applause.- Mrs Fernández Castañón makes negative gestures]] He's not ashamed of himself. I myself, Your Honor, raised the blind at eight and a half... [[Laughter]] Yeah, they're gonna laugh less now.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u24	At eight and a half in the morning, along with my father, he went to his trade every day, accompanying him, because he was going to kill the terrorist gang ETA, they were going to kill his partners, who knew that every day he raised the blind of his trade at eight and a half. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Various Members: Bravo!]] His caricature is gross, it's insulting, it's fake. It refers to a lot of Members from different groups saying that they have never raised a blind, that they have not worked, but what have you worked? I guess some of them will have done it. But how dare you make a cartoon like that? Is that the parliamentary level you claim? You come here and call the rest of the world a classist, and you say that you have refused to accept VOX's proposal that all Spaniards be paid masks because there are Spaniards who already have to choose between masks or milk? Classist? [[Applauds]] Class and sexist is not paying Social Security to your assistant, which is what some members of their group do. [[Applauds]] We don't admit a single lesson, Your Honor. This is the performance that its boss has organized today, only women have come out here to try to caricature a party or several parties and to qualify us as sexists. You guys were part of a staging today, you're extras. Today you were part of a decoration, it is the vases that decided the alpha machito that had to come out to degrade in the middle of the House. [[Applauds]] They have come to make a good and bad performance and speech about violence against women. We care about the real women, who are mostly the ones who receive the assaults, but we also care about the men who receive them; we care about false complaints, we care about the girls and the boys who are assaulted, the elderly and the elderly who are assaulted within the family. [[Applauds]] We care about everyone and we care especially about women who are victims of rape, because we are the only ones who say that rapists go to jail forever. And that's something that doesn't say just one of the groups on the left side of this Chamber. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]] You don't represent women. They're women, obviously, but they don't represent them. They do not represent Spanish women who do not vote for them, who carry out a family, a business, companies with their effort and daily work. You don't represent all those women. You're not an example, you don't represent them. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u25	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 177(4) of the Rules of Procedure, I announce that the vote will not take place before 13 o'clock. I would also like to announce to you that the deadline for the issue of the telematic vote will be at 12 o'clock in the morning. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is difficult to take the floor and talk about serious matters, about what worries Spain and about what worries the Spaniards, after such a display of hatred, ignorance and chrispation, after such a display of the worst of the human being. The arrival of extremism a few years ago in Spanish politics has brought nothing good. There is not a single positive value that Podemos has brought to Spanish politics. What you bring - hatred and verbal and physical violence - is the worst of human beings and we hope that in the future, even if you can't turn it away, at least you can hide it a little more. Ladies and gentlemen, if anything becomes clear after listening to yesterday's speech by Santiago Abascal, it is that Spain is in danger. So simple and so serious. As Mr Abascal pointed out, we are facing the worst health, economic, social and institutional moment of our lives and we must react urgently with decisive measures if we are to guarantee a better life for our children. But if something is clear after listening to the interventions of the parties that form this Frankenstein coalition of government, it is that neither socialism nor communism nor separatism nor terrorism can offer any solution; on the contrary, they can only make things worse and more and more accelerated. Interventions by these parties must serve as an alarm to awaken those who are asleep. The future of Spain, our ability to create opportunities, to guarantee the well-being of the Spaniards and, ultimately, to ensure our freedom, independence and sovereignty requires a change of course that this Government does not want or can and does not know how to give. That's why a motion like this was urgent. Spain must first of all postpone the poor health management of our politicians. No one in his or her right mind would think of choosing the most critical health moment of the last hundred years to put health in the hands of a person with no health knowledge, a so-called epidemic expert, who is not a doctor and who fails in all his or her predictions, and a group of experts who simply do not exist. All this to be coordinated with seventeen subsidiary administrations in which no one is clear who is in charge. However, that is exactly what our political leaders have done, a seamless plan. The result was predictable: not only the worst health outcomes in the world, but death, pain and uncertainty for all Spaniards and, more typical of our politicians, the translation of responsibility to the citizenry: states of alarm, closures, curfews, accusations to our service sector, attacks on the Horeca - Horeca sector, for those who do not know it, hotels, restaurants and cafes; as they have never worked, will it not sound to them?- [[Applauds]] All the less assume that our politicians have failed in their work, that they have not been able to offer massive tests to identify the infected, that they have not been able to carry out the relevant screening tasks, that they have not been able to offer a sufficient hospital response, that they have lacked beds in some autonomous communities while they were left in others and that they have burned our healthcare professionals with an inept management of resources that, by their very nature, are always scarce. One could not know, because they know nothing; of healing, neither. The other major crisis that will unfortunately persist when the health crisis is brought to an end is economic and social, and one inevitably brings to the other. We have said many times that the best social policy is employment and economic growth is the only engine of job creation. Without economic growth there is no possible welfare; on the contrary, desirousness, lavishness in dealing with reforms, debt and waste are the sure path to unemployment, poverty and economic ruin. Pedro Sánchez and his communist and separatist partners are using Spain as a funder of their particular ideological project; a project that confronts the Spaniards, which meets priorities that have nothing to do with urgent reforms that ensure growth, job creation and well-being and that generates accelerated unemployment, poverty and more economic ruin. We cannot afford to jeopardize all the achievements made of which, if you continue, you will not be able to enjoy our children and grandchildren. Before the virus and in just a few months the government of Sánchez e Iglesias had already placed Spain, as every time it ruled the left, at the gates of a recession. The virus surprised Spain without the duties done - five years without reforms - and was worsened by the worst management of the world's pandemic, which supported the accumulated weaknesses in the Spanish economy. Spain needed a strong and agile response to keep our businesses and jobs alive and that was always our double priority - we have repeated it here to the point of satiety -: liquidity and employment. We proposed ambitious moratoriums on the payment of taxes, measures to support critical sectors, that the State should assume the payroll of the workers who had been banned from working, but we were ignored. On the contrary, its measures were insufficient, of the lowest in measures as a percentage of gross domestic product, and extremely ineffective, as has been shown. The delay in aid has certainly aggravated the crisis, as shown by the chaos of the ERTE, the exasperating slowness of ICO credits and the minimum living income, which months after approval had not reached even 1% of those who needed it. Today we find that Spain will suffer in 2020 the biggest recession in the West, with the destruction of employment, which is already the most intense in Europe and with the deterioration of the productive fabric, which is being devastating, especially for our young people, with an unemployment rate above 40%, the highest in Europe. If we follow the same path, we will take many risks, but there is one terrible one to which the wrong policies of Sánchez and Iglesias will lead us inexorably: the ruin of the welfare state, the insolvency of Spain and an explosion of poverty. The Spanish have the right to health, education and pensions and to be assured by the State, as the Constitution says, but time is pressing, ladies and gentlemen, and the margin left for us to avoid the disaster is running out. We have seen very rich nations - very rich, Mr. Iglesias - succumb to socialism causing misery, pain, hunger and scarcity. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in time to avoid this, but for that it is necessary, first, that we all become aware of the situation in which we are and, secondly, that we all commit ourselves to a real transformation of Spain, as Mr Abascal rightly proposed yesterday. [[Applauds]] The public authorities are now part of the problem and we need to get them to start being part of the solution, that instead of consuming the creative energies of the country, politicians are dedicated to supporting business generators, workers, traders and self-employed, SMEs and entrepreneurs, and that instead of creating burdens and obstacles, we are going to stimulate a favourable framework for economic development, growth and employment. It would be good if one of your ladies and gentlemen would one day meet those people who create jobs, rather than devote themselves to the precious world of words. Spain has been generating imbalances in its accounts for years. The government's overexpenditure generates a deficit that accumulates year after year in the form of debt; debt that is contracted with foreign actions, so that with it we lose sovereignty and risk our prosperity. That is why we have to go to the root of the problem and select well what we spend to curb that unnecessary expense, while widening the contributory base to increase income, without raising taxes. The consolidation of public accounts is the moral obligation of any responsible leader. As Mr Abascal said yesterday, we must stop the waste of what is already the largest and most wasteful government in history, which has more ministers, more secretaries of state, more directors-general and more advisors to the finger, which deploys more public expenditure in history, which does not repair expenditure and fires aid to chiringuitos, friendly means and subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing a historic opportunity. Spain will have extraordinary financing mechanisms articulated with our European partners, up to 140 billion in the coming years that we will have to invest intelligently in programmes that will generate returns in the future, not in superfluous expenses that are bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. We must take advantage of them to put the welfare of the State behind us and save the welfare State. To achieve this, in order to consolidate the modernization of Spain, we have to undertake an ambitious reform of the Administration. Spain has a high public expenditure that is perfectly non-dispensable, as the reports of the Banco de España and the AIReF acknowledge. And while we reduce superfluous spending, we need to increase income with a plan of structural and comprehensive reforms that drive the growth of competitiveness and the generation of employment and wealth in Spain. So the challenge we have to face is twofold: on the one hand, to improve the low productivity of the existing economy, because we have a serious problem when comparing ourselves with countries in our environment, such as Germany, France or the United Kingdom, and on the other, to broaden the base of our economy with programmes to stimulate the mass creation of a new business fabric that creates employment, and to make Spain go from being a fiscal hell to a paradise of employment. [[Applauds]] To this end, I would remind you briefly of some of the measures proposed yesterday by Santiago Abascal; measures which, by the way, coincide with the recommendations of the European Commission, and better coincide because, if not, we will not receive any assistance. And since I have seen that some media have not collected them with sufficient integrity and that some of their lordships have ignored them, perhaps because they do not understand much about economics and the numbers are not theirs, today I am going to repeat them, schematically, even numerically, with a decalogue, to see if they are getting it. First. To encourage the strengthening of companies, because we have already found in this crisis that smaller companies suffer the most when they are badly given. Second. To recover the single market, which you like to fragment so much, because it is absurd to aspire that our companies will someday undertake internationalisation if we force them to start their activity by operating in a fragmented national market; absurd, from all points of view. For this reason, market unity is essential and regulatory simplification is absolutely essential to operate in any market with a single regulation. Third. Investing in human capital formation, betting on our young people, training them and training our workers, demanding that educational laws give priority to the effort - not as with the educational law of the left, for which effort and duties are fascists - and assuring young people that their effort will be rewarded, because training is the real social promotion, the key to the vault of any economy that seeks to progress in productivity and generate wealth. We have examples from around the world of how a good education system generates more wealth, and the opposite. Fourth. Investing in training and technological capital will not sound like it either, because they don't know much about technological capital or its world. However, Spain has one of the best fixed networks in the world in the digital field, but unfortunately it does not have enough profiles formed in digital capabilities. We also lack an ambitious agenda that makes it possible for digital transformation to be a driving force for innovation and progress. Again, there is a need for a complete shift in training, and in this case in the digital sector. Moreover, we must recover - as Mr Abascal said yesterday - our sovereignty over the data, a wealth source that you have not yet fully understood. Fifth. Create a better labour market, protect those who because of the pandemic cannot work and recover the jobs destroyed during this crisis as soon as possible, and then re-create new jobs, as had never been done before. The relationship between gross domestic product growth and job creation needs to be improved, as it has traditionally been low in Spain, so that all future growth will result in job creation, and we will not find Spain the country that demands higher growth rates, before generating a job. Sixth. We have to tackle a massive drop in taxes and social burdens to promote economic recovery and make our economy attractive for investment and entrepreneurship: more businesses, paying less. Seventh. The decarbonisation plan - perhaps one of the most ambitious and creative of those mentioned yesterday by Mr Abascal - through a policy of mass reforestation. You come here talking about things we haven't said; you haven't heard what we've said and you're attacking us on the contrary. Pay more attention. [[Applauds]] The plan, as I say, is of massive reforestation, of interconnection of all the basins and creation of irrigation; a plan, as Mr Abascal explained yesterday, which can generate five million jobs, guaranteeing, by the way, water, an increasingly valuable resource for all Spaniards. In addition, it is a plan that would help anchor the population in emptied Spain, regain birth, regain our energy independence and reduce the electricity bill. Eighth. A plan of investment in infrastructure, but in economically and socially profitable infrastructures, taking advantage precisely of the European funds that will be available for Spain and thus advance those sensible infrastructures that were planned for the coming years, creating in the short term activity and employment and sowing the seed in order to have infrastructures that in the future allow a greater return on our economy. Ninth. A plan to support the industry - and we can never forget it - to compensate for the significant loss of weight suffered by the industrial sector in Spain and in the whole of its economic activity. As Mr Abascal said yesterday, it was a huge mistake to allow that process of de-industrialisation that took place since the 1980s. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, industry accounted for 29% of Spain's gross domestic product, but today the relative weight of industry in Spain is far below the 20% target set by Brussels. Tenth and last. A plan to defend our poor primary sector and a plan to support trade and tourism, which are one of our main sources of income, thanks to the thousands of workers and entrepreneurs who have developed the sector, until they reach global leadership. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this time you have understood. If not, I will explain it to you even more briefly on future occasions. So we have the essential foundations for looking forward with optimism, but we have to build on them. The present and future of millions of us depends on us being able to make Spain an attractive country for investment, fruitful for industry and in favour of entrepreneurship and employment, quite the opposite of what your Lordships of Podemos draw every time they come up to this rostrum of speakers. [[Applauds]] And in this task VOX will always work, ladies and gentlemen, because fortunately we are still in time and that is what we have come here for. We have come to give a voice to early Spain, to that which you do not fully know, but it is a Spain that does not despair, a Spain determined to write its future with its own letter, to work it with its own hands. We want to say to the Spaniards that there is hope, that Spain is not necessarily engaged in unemployment, debt and the irremediable loss of competitiveness, that we will work tirelessly to save your effort by simplifying your work, eliminating obstacles to your activity, encouraging your development, accompanying you in your exports, celebrating your successes, being tolerant of your failures, teaching the new generations the importance of your role and appreciating the difficulties that you and your families overcome every day. And to all of you, workers, job creators, self-employed, traders, entrepreneurs, we send you our maximum solidarity, our maximum support, our maximum respect because thanks to you we will make Spain great again. [[Applauds]] Therefore, on behalf of VOX, today I want to convey to all of them - workers, traders, self-employed and entrepreneurs - a very simple message: we know that you are having a bad time, we just want to say thank you. Thank you for your effort, thank you for your contribution to the national economy, thank you for your work, thank you for your awakenings, thank you for taking risks often at the expense of your own heritage, thank you for creating employment, thank you with all your heart. [[Applauds]] And now, as we approach the conclusion of the motion of censure, I want to extend our thanks to more people. First of all, I would like to thank the millions of Spaniards who see us with sympathy and, of course, also the four million voters who have chosen us the last time and for whom we dissipate ourselves daily to make them proud of what they have voted for, because unlike other parties we never consider them our captive voters, they are not our heritage, they are simply mature and free voters who must be won every day if we are to be voted again in the future. Thanks also to those other millions of Spaniards who have not yet voted for us, but who see us more and more pleased and who in increasing numbers are becoming more aware that although they may not be able to defend VOX in their personal areas, VOX will always defend them, live where they live and have voted what they voted in the past. [[Applauds]] It is Spain that is early in the morning and Spain that wants to have reasons to get back early in the morning as soon as possible. Thank you, of course, to our supporters and affiliates. They are the ones who have supported the party during the desert crossing in these five long years in which VOX was nothing more than the first political startup in history, which was born without business support, without financial support and with almost all the media against, with some courageous exceptions that I will not name in order not to harm them, and to which we also show our gratitude. Thanks to those few thousands of initial militants who believed in us and with whom we were able to cross that desert, bad than good, until reaching an oasis in Andalusia, because from now on to today everything has happened at lightning speed. But even if everything goes very quickly, we will try not to lose the humility and the ability to overcome with which we have come so far. We are well aware that taller towers have fallen. Thanks also to all those who were at our side in the beginning, although at some point they got out of the car for reasons that no longer matter to us today. Thank you, Alejo, José Luis, Ignacio and so many more. Thanks also to our hundreds of elected positions: councillors, autonomous deputies and MEPs and thanks to our candidates throughout Spain, who have not entered the first, because in VOX we almost never enter the first, but who continue and continue with tesón at the foot of the canyon. Thank you for being so persistent. Thanks to the volunteers who with their sometimes dangerous but always important work on the street make known the ideas of VOX in any corner of Spain. I assure you that all those of us who have spent hours and weeks distributing brochures on the street know how much effort you make and we value it. Thanks very special to the VOX Parliamentary Group, which two directors of different newspapers have defined as the brightest of the Congress of Deputies. I cannot be more proud of this group of fifty-two Members. You have all passed through this rostrum and you have made it clear that you can reach the highest level of public responsibility from civil society, compensating for the lack of previous political experience with brilliant careers in such diverse professional areas and with your enormous capacity for work. I am particularly proud of the culture of the group that you have created among all and of the way you have to support each other every day and, of course, your model behaviour, even being surrounded by so much barbarism and despite the daily insults and improvisations of other Members in this House and also in the committees. You are an example of talent, dedication, professionalism and good forms, which unfortunately are lacking in Spanish politics. You make me proud and fortunate to belong to this group every day. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]] Thanks also to the leadership of the parliamentary group, to Macarena and Enrique, to our area deputies, to the assistants and advisers on all the different half-storeys for which they have distributed us, or rather dispersed, in this building because it has only served to coordinate us more. You are the empirical demonstration that by implementing high standards of quality and demand, you can do more with less. That is why we know that when we reach the Government, we will be prepared to undertake ambitious reforms, incorporating our own talent and as much external talent as we have recently been approached, but maintaining a manageable and efficient scale. We don't care how things were done all our lives, we care how we can do better, and that's how we move forward. Thank you, Ignacio Garriga. [[Applauds]] Thank you for the sacrifices you and your family have voluntarily made. Thank you for fitting without complaint the precarious work situation in which we have placed you when your relationship with VOX is known. Thank you for being willing to substantially worsen your quality of life for improving that of others. Thank you for having put up with the pressure to lead a group like VOX in a place like Catalonia; only those who have fought against nationalism from any party can understand what that entails. Thank you for accepting your temporary transfer to Madrid and thank you for accepting the return to Catalonia, where you are more necessary than ever, because when the others abandon, your tournament. Many thanks, Ignasi to accept the challenge of contributing to a better Catalonia. [[Applauds]] And thank you for assuming the wear and tear of filing the motion of censure yesterday. You're the living example of how you transition from what's going to happen, to what we're going to do. I can't forget the best of all of us, Don José Antonio Ortega Lara. Thank you, José Antonio, for being our Honorary President, but above all, thank you, José Antonio, for being our moral referent. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]] I know you don't like being the focus, so I'll be very brief. Thank you for being there whenever we need you, for helping us and guiding us in so many ways. This is the government that Otegi wanted, and we are the party of José Antonio Ortega Lara, no more honor. [[pointing to the blue bench]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]] Finally, I want to thank the man who brought us here. Almost twenty years ago José María Aznar referred to him as that boy, president of the New Generations, Abascal, who has to go to college escorted because they want to kill him. Of course they wanted to kill him, as they wanted to kill his father, Santiago Abascal Escuza, and as they wanted to kill his grandfather, Manuel Abascal Pardo, when they raised the blinds - something you do not know. And they wanted to kill everyone, but not because of their political ideas, ladies and gentlemen, but because of their unconditional defense of Spain from Alaves. Fortunately, Santiago, they couldn't with either of the three. Your father didn't get a chance to see you in Congress, as your mother and grandmother are seeing today, but even though he's no longer with us, from heaven he looks at you with the pride of a father who knows that he has educated his children in the best values. [[Applauds]] A son to whom he gave roots to know his own identity, to know where he came from and to give wings to trace his own flight. That boy today became the leader that Spain wanted and that Spain needs. There can be no more pride for a father, I am absolutely sure, and I am sure because, although in another way, everyone around you feels the same pride; pride and gratitude for being able to accompany you in the voraciousness of transforming a modest vehicle at the service of Spain into the third political force of the country, a genuine alternative of government with solid foundations. It has been such a success that yesterday ten extremist parties, the ten evil ones, including the PSOE, had to join in order to try to fight us all, and yet they will not be able to. [[Applauds]] In this party we are not much of praise and homage. Here you are not told, "Stop, President!", every time you return to your seat from the rostrum. We are rather Spartans, sometimes perhaps too sober and austere, as if we were from Amurrio more or less, but it is fair to recognize the right to present against wind and tide this motion of censure, which has shown the ugly seams of the Frankenstein government and the courage you have had in accepting the wear and tear experienced by everyone who dares to try to change things. It is better to leave with scars for having tried it than with the skin intact by cowards. And for all that, thank you, Santiago. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]] I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. I conclude with an appeal to all those who believe that a better Spain is possible, whether young or old; left or right; Asturians, Catalans, Murians or extremists. We will soon be out of the epidemic, despite the politicians of all parties. We will soon recover increasing degrees of normality and, although on the way we will face great risks - perhaps the most serious being that of the continuity of this government disaster we have - we must re-believe; re-believe in Spain; re-believe in our ability to achieve a better future; re-believe in our own ability to create, innovate, grow, expand; re-study, innovate, create jobs, generate wealth, go abroad, take advantage of our many talents and the opportunities that Spain always offers, even in the worst of the scenarios. We will continue to believe in you, because we will always believe in Spain. And when we come to rule, we will make things easier for you, we will simplify your life, we will facilitate your development, we will value your abilities and your talent, we will create behaviors and conduits so that you can develop your impulse, we will create opportunities to recover the Spanish talent that has had to emigrate away from our homeland, because we believe in you and we will never cease to believe. And we don't care if they tell us that we are alone in these beliefs, because it fills us with pride to know that we are alone with millions of Spaniards who want a better change and strive daily for it. If the others leave us alone with the millions of Spaniards who do not give up, we will also not give up, because we have come here to give that battle, to give the battle of ideas, to give the cultural battle, whoever we are facing, without fear of anything or anyone, every day of our life. And they don't realize that it's them who's going to be left alone. Long live Spain! [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Alive!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u27	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u28	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, thank you very much. Dear Ivan, thank you very much. Very briefly I come to the rostrum to thank the support of the VOX Parliamentary Group in this motion of censure, but above all to make a recognition and to formally thank from this rostrum for the extraordinary work that all Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group have been doing during these legislatures. But, above all, I would like to thank you for your courage and stoicism to bear in this House the hardness not only of legitimate political criticism, but of the insults, of the permanent stigmatization and of the hatred that is being systematically poured out against all of you by a large part of the spokespersons who have been coming out to this rostrum; a brutal stigmatization and brutal hatred that we have already seen in many cases, and you have experienced it by some of the Members, which leads to direct violence against you. It is an honor to be accompanied in this Congress by a group of brave men and I must say that without you behind me I am unable to do absolutely nothing of what I do. I'm very proud of you. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I understand you will not make use of your replica. [[Consent]] Thank you very much. Mr Casado Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Abascal, in politics what is not possible is false. Antonio Cánovas, I trust it sounds like you. Today I would like to remind you that what you are calling us here today is a motion of imposture which has nothing to do with the debate on the general interest required by the upper-class policy. It makes us waste our time in the middle of the second wave of a pandemic that has already infected one million Spaniards and has claimed the lives of another 60 000, yesterday in the middle of the black day with more than two hundred dead. Our heart is with them all today. [[Applauds]] And all this while the Government takes advantage of this motion to conceal the failure of its management, its arbitrariness with the administrations governed by its opposition and the threat of imposing constitutional exceptionality again. But VOX for these prosaic things isn't even expected. While we have been calling for a legal reform and a health pact to fight the coronavirus effectively for six months, its only contribution has been Vistalegre and a convertible bus. There was no need for this trip, three months of waiting and attacking the People's Party for nothing, a lot of noise and a few nuts, like everything you do. He set up this session as an act of the Catalan pre-campaign and began a flight forward when the electoral delay left him hanging from the brush. They have spent the whole summer dragging their feet and, after not finding a postin candidate, he has had no choice but to register the motion, that is, with a Sanchez-style applause hall. They have at last launched this flare to fleetingly illuminate their autonomous candidate, but knowing that it would not solve the darkness in which this Government has plunged Spain and that it would also point out its position for its partners to come to the rescue, as has happened. In forty-three years of democracy there have been five motions of censure, three of them in the last three years, that is the stability that the new policy has brought. Historically, the only motions with meaning have been those put forward by the parties leading the opposition and I remind you that this is not a subjective attribution, but arithmetic or, rather, democratic. The PP doubles in deputies to VOX and multiplies by thirty its senators. You know that the motion of censure is a constructive mechanism, so what is voted on here today is whether you are qualified to be president of the fourth euro economy and whether your party has the experience and the solvency to lead the oldest nation in Europe. The answer was already clear and has become even clearer: no. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And that's why I'm talking to you as a candidate today, Sanchez I've been talking to you every day for two years and in this Chamber I do it every week. I'm telling you this because you come here only once a month when you have questions, especially this whole quarter that has been locked up guarding weapons for this medieval just to which you have challenged us. Don't fool the Spaniards. Censorship motions are not to censor a government, but to name a new one. They're not even to call elections. That decoy was used here two years ago and there they are, on the blue bank. The difference is that they had an alternative majority and you didn't. That's why we haven't introduced it, because we would need the votes of independenceists and battalions, and we don't want them. Today Sanchez will come out of this thing on the shoulders of the deputies of VOX and with his profanity ovation him. What a hood he has thrown out and go underfoot with which to finish the work, Mr. Abascal! [[Applauds]] He wanted to cut off the two ears of the PP and has finished as a monosabio of Pablo Iglesias. The dislate we have witnessed is not a motion of censure against Sánchez, but against China, Soros, Botín, the European Union, autonomy and even the dress of politicians. He even quoted Hitler and the Soviet Union! And it won't be for lack of time. While you were carefully preparing your particular development, appearing only in seven public events in three months, adult politics has continued to work. A humble servant has done only fifty acts, but since the PP we have led the rebellion of the mayors, we have defeated the government in the courts for its indolence with the pandemic and we have doubled the pulse of Sánchez in Europe for the coup to judicial independence, as was seen yesterday in the council's letter. [[Applauds]] Yes, we have also presented an alternative to educational counter-reform, an anti-occupation law, an economic shock plan, a state health pact and pension renewal, and above all our colleagues, at the head of six self-governments, 2860 municipalities, thirteen deputies, cabildos and councils, have been ruling for all their neighbors, just what you can't do and your party has never done. [[Applauds]] Thus the opposition is led and a credible alternative, not reciting war feats and riding an army of trolls in the networks of Bannon and Le Pen. Mr. Abascal, I'm going to confess something to you. In these two years as president of the PP I have not responded to his provocations, above all out of respect for his voters, who have mostly always trusted us, and also because I resisted believing his irresponsible and corrosive strategy for Spain. But today, at last, he's been exposed. This motion does not shoot her against the Government, but against the party that has given her work for fifteen years, and I regret to say that the shot came out of her butt. [[Applauds]] But I accept the orderly. It's time to put the cards up. We've come this far. You have exercised Victor Frankenstein to suture the scars that were opening in the government of Sanchez in recent months, you have come to the aid of the creature at its worst time to revive it for another season. It should be considered why Sánchez so enthusiastically welcomes this censorship function. That's why I shouldn't have introduced her. But what they both hide is that they need to survive. When it comes to polarizing, the tacit agreement is very easy among those who draw revenue. For that reason you can be calm, the left will take care of you as until now, will give you as much projection as you can, will use you to continue your offensive against the PP, because they know that we are the only project that threatens the position of the Government and represents a real alternative for Spain. [[Applauds]] VOX is Sanchez's life insurance policy to follow Moncloa's tenant. It is known that politics makes strange companions, mattress in this case. However, Mr Abascal, even if you address this motion of censure against me, it actually goes against yourself and the consequences of your actions. It is a smokescreen to cover up your responsibility in the dramatic situation in Spain. What is portrayed here today is the destruction caused by the divisional policy of VOX, which is tainted by Sánchez's confrontational policy and sponsored by their respective propagandistic terminals. And if not, tell me why I was celebrating with fireworks on the night of Sánchez's election victory if less than a year later he is presenting a motion against what he was celebrating. Why did you prefer to grant Sanchez seats in constituencies where VOX had no choice but the People's Party did? Why do you ask me today for an impossible parliamentary 'Spain sum' after having rejected just a few months ago a generous, necessary and winning 'Spain sum' election? [[Applauds]] You chose to give Sanchez deputies so he could be president, and now he comes to ask me who didn't want me to have. Lord Abascal, like St. Augustine before being holy, you want virtue, but not now; better another day. Now, what he wants is not to change the government, which he knows will not succeed, but to supplant the PP. But, give up all hope. He's not the first to try, but I assure you he'll be the last. [[Applauds]] Let me lower your expectations a little bit and put your feet on the ground. You just had zero deputies in Galicia and only one deputy in the Basque Country, by the way, at the cost of losing three to constitutionalism, as happened in the general elections, in which the friends of the killers of Miguel Ángel Blanco got their sister's seat because the remains of VOX were useless. VOX is what it is, but I respect its voters very much. Therefore, I will take the opportunity to address them; first, because they do not deserve to be radical or extremist, because they are not; second, because they do not deserve to be used for an agenda that takes away the great focused and winning alternative that Spain needs. I'm sure that's not what they wanted. I know very well the disenchantment that led many of them to move away from the People's Party; I understand them, so much so that that was why I introduced myself to lead my party. What they wanted to express with their vote was a message that we do not ignore; I personally have very much in mind. But I also want to tell those who voted for what you hid from them. The time has come to move from anger to something that can be more constructive, and that will never again give Sanchez a victory with less votes due to the division of his opponents. Because the Spaniards of today and tomorrow will judge us by the ability we have shown to gather strength to win, to stop and reverse this true black triennium in which the government has plunged Spain, also wasting the sacrifices that the Spaniards have made and using another crisis to squander our path of reconciliation, freedom and progress. In democracy, gathering forces is to gather votes, regain wills, renew efforts and pursue the great national goals we want for Spain and its citizens. The rest is to lose; and to lose means to rule others, the worst, so simple. You, Mr Abascal, only offer Spain fractures, defeats and angers. But, which is even worse, you offer to the left a guarantee of perpetual victory. [[Applauds]] His motion speaks of election fraud on the part of Sanchez. There is, of course, but that is your alibi not to recognize your own fraud to your electorate. You knew very well what would happen if Sanchez won and formed the radical and independent majority again. Sanchez was lying to everyone, but he wasn't cheating on anyone. Despite that, you once again gave him the opportunity to win and rule and he took advantage of it, as you wished. You did not tell the truth of the effects of the division of the vote, on your plans and on your real purposes; you hid it, deliberately confused the electorate, deceived it; you used the good faith of many Spaniards sincerely concerned about your country; you used your vote to weaken Spain and subdue it to Sánchez, telling them that there was no risk that that would happen, even though knowing that it was false the one plus one plus one, the supposedly clandestine surveys, the anonymous fences on roads, the pickets on our rallies and the bubbles by WhatsApp to the cry of: Pass it! In this they also look like the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Mr. Abascal, you play the same game as Sanchez, even if you play it on the other side of the field. They both want to empty Spain centered to make it their particular battlefield. And for that the obstacle is the People's Party. You're the right one who likes the left the most, and that's all you are. [[Applauds]] Today you censor yourself, and it seems to me that in that censor, and not in Sánchez's, you will be more successful than you would like. He has made the same trap as him; he has committed the same fraud as him. You have put the Spaniards in the hands of Sanchez, because you think it will be from those hands that they are going to throw at yours, and that makes you a necessary collaborator of all that catalog of accusations that you have made these two days. What have you done to avoid what Sanchez does? Yeah, he's the worst president in the last 40 years, 40. Yes, your government is the most negligent in the world in the pandemic, with the record of contagion and deaths by relative population, so it does not seem sensible for you to ask for autonomy to give your health skills to Simon, Illa and Sánchez. Yes, it is the worst that is managing the economic crisis, with 5 million unemployed and 100 000 companies broken, so I do not understand that you are opposed to lowering taxes in Madrid, to ask for the minimum wage now and to set up a union. Yes, the coalition has attacked the separation of powers and judicial independence until we have mobilized with our partners in the European PP to stop them, so it is not responsible for you to ask for the spexit to leave the European Union and to throw the reconstruction funds and the CAP away. Yes, they agree with independenceists that we have had to remove from the Generalitat and the European Parliament by going to the Central Electoral Board, so it is inexplicable that you share a parliamentary group in Brussels with five parties that support the Puigdemont sedition. Yes, you have the vice president's party accused of irregular financing by attacking the king and occupying state institutions, so it does not seem very opportune for you to call for the abolition of the Constitutional Court and say that you understand confederal republicanism. Yes, Mr. Abascal, all this is true, and it is also true that you have done nothing to prevent it. One of two, or you didn't know anything when all of Spain knew what was waiting for us if Sanchez won the election, or you knew, like everyone else, but it didn't matter. By ignorance or by deception you must give explanations. [[Applauds]] I think they have woven a perfect symbiosis, Sánchez gave him the election campaign with Franco's televised exhumation, which caused them to double their voting expectation in a week, and you gave Sanchez electoral fragmentation because you loved him as president and not me. And today comes to give him another gift, his victory on his particular question of trust; he comes to strengthen the investiture block just when the weaker he was; he comes to fill his cracks with mortar just when they were deeper. And why are you doing all this? Because, in this coalition that he claims to want to censor, he is also VOX, in a clamp that they have all seen, as the handles of a tenaza are united to squeeze on both ends to moderate Spain, and that is where the PP hinders them, in the center. You think that the survival of this radical government is your way to survive and you think that that path has to go through the landscape of economic ruin and social tension that others dictate to you and you execute; pure populism. The worse for Spain, the better for you, that is, you prefer to bury the national interest under your own interest. All this leads to a reflection: If this government threatens Spain and if VOX guarantees the continuity of this government, then the conclusion is clear: either VOX or Spain. [[Applauds]] Since the PP we have spent two years trying to regroup the electoral space with concrete proposals for Sánchez not to be president; you know it very well, as other parties know. I warned with loyalty and transparency of what would happen, but your patriotism ended when sacrifices were claimed, and you ended up weakening Spain just to paramentate now that you regret that weakness. Mr. Abascal, I will tell you clearly what this motion is: It is another lie of VOX for Sánchez to continue in the Moncloa. [[Applauds]] The problem in Spain is not only that the left and the nationalists want to destroy coexistence, the whole problem is that you contribute to it. To the horizontal break strategy of them is added the vertical break strategy of you. The worrying thing is that the reformist project that has made possible the best years of our history and that remains a majority in Spanish society already embodies it alone by the People's Party. The real dispute that exists in Spain today is not between left and right, it is between rupturists and reformists, between populists and democrats, between radicals and centrists, and you and I are on the opposite sides of that dispute. VOX is part of the breakup block with Sanchez and Iglesias. [[Applauds]] Mr Abascal, we are not equal, there are many of our differences, as much as the distance between reformist liberalism and anti-liberal populism, between inclusive patriotism and anti-pluralism, between open economy and autonomous protectionism, between European and Atlantist vocation and isolationism, between general interest and demagogic opportunism. That is why, Mr Abascal, we will vote no for your candidacy to preside over the Government of Spain. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some of them standing]] And we'll vote no because we say no to the breakup you're looking for. Not the polarization you need - like Sanchez -. Not that Spain with black and white garrotations, trenches, anger and fear. Not to that anti-Spanish engineer who also sponsors you, that Cainite anti-politics of the left or right destined to make the Spaniards hate and fear each other. We say no to your motion because we say no to Sanchez and his partners, the visible ones and the one in the shadow, which is you. [[Applauds]] But that's no more than ever a yes. Yes to Spain of coexistence and tolerance. Yes to globalisation and the free market. Yes to the European Union of Rights and Freedoms. Yes to national unity and the whole Constitution, not by fascicles, as you claim. Yes to the rule of law, to the law, to security, but without shortcuts or demagogies. Yes to the autonomous state, freedom of choice in education, health care and social services. Yes to the family, to the future of young people and to real equality between men and women. Yes to tax cuts, job flexibility, support for self-employed people and SMEs to create jobs and guarantee pensions. Yes to the environment and digitisation, which have been PP's flags for 25 years and we will not risk them, even if some copy them and others criticize them. [[Applauds]] Mr. Abascal, you don't give any battle for ideas. You have as your only idea to drag the Spaniards into a battle. Like Sanchez and his partners, he is part of this national tear. It acts and lives for that, to confront society, to make coexistence impossible. You express better than anyone the success that the left is having in its cultural colonization of a part of the right. His real progress consensus is that Sanchez should continue in Moncloa thanks to his indispensable contribution. We do not appeal to identity as a vaccine against the false moral superiority of the left, because it is part of the same virus. Politics without complexes, yes, but with head. Collectiveism and interventionism are not fought with demagogy and populism, but with freedom and tolerance with each person has the skin color that has, pray to the praying god, love the person who loves, dream in the language that dreams. [[Applause.- Various Members: Bravo!]] You are not going to give me lessons in principles and values. I have always defended life - also in the limit situations and in my own home -, as I have defended reconciliation and harmony - also with retaliationed family background - and regeneration in my own party, presenting myself to some impossible primaries instead of leaving the boat. From the PP we will remain active in the cultural war, yes, but especially in the one here and now, not against judeomasonic conspiracy or with the castresian cantoral. In the face of historical revisionism, we defend the Transition and the Constitutional Monarchy. Faced with dogmatic feminism, let us work to create jobs for two million unemployed women. [[Applauds]] To defend private property, let us act against illegal occupation and confiscation taxes. For individual freedom, we defend concerted and special education. For the sake of personal security, let us keep the permanent prison reviewable and the fight against illegal immigration, without racism or goodism. For the rule of law, we defend legality either in Catalonia, Poland, Malta or Venezuela. [[Applauds]] Mr. Abascal, real politics is doing things for people. To the things, Ortega said; Ortega and Gasset, do not go wrong with another. Let me explain to you clearly what it is and what it is not the PP. I thought it would not be necessary to make this clarification given their work history, but, at this point, I am afraid it is essential. The People's Party is neither angry nor noisy; we do not feed fractures, but we want to close them, we want to unite the Spaniards again. We want a Spain in network, without isolated groups in bunker and without people alone. We want an open and free society, which does not expect politicians to force it to do what they want, but to help it to do what it wants. Why does politics have to create closed blocks instead of ties and connections? For what society do you make politics, lords of the bloc and the breakup? For what country, Mr Sánchez, Mr Abascal; Mr Abascal, Mr Sánchez? We defend a united and diverse Spain; one of you does not want it united, the other does not want it diverse. We defend a cohesive and open Spain; one of you does not want it cohesive, the other does not want it open. For us, a political idea has to create a link between Spaniards, not a fracture. We don't live in isolation; we don't want to live in confrontation with each other. Do not separate us, do not confront us, we are too important a country to live without ambitious projects that have the stable support of broad majorities. That necessary agenda - which no one imposes on us, which is what suits us and for which we can count on help if we do things right - should concern us all. We must unite efforts and votes around it. It was necessary before the health and economic crises, but now it is much more, it is simply essential. But in the meantime, instead of this, you continue to sweep together each day, dynamizing common history and the future. We do not want that and for this reason, Mr Abascal, you allow yourself to call us cowards. Read Shakespeare: Discretion is most of the value. You have never measured your words in speaking of the People's Party, to which you and your people have devoted insults every time you have wanted. You seem to be the only brave Spanish, the most sincere in the world, but now it's up to me to say something about the People's Party. Mr. Abascal, it's not that we don't dare, it's not that we surrendered, it's not that we're cowards, it's that we don't want to be like you. [[Applauds]] We're not like you because we don't want to be like you. That simple. The People's Party does not want to be another party of fear, anger, grudge and revenge, insult and anger, nor of manipulation, lies and frantist involution. The People's Party is the party of freedom, laws, coexistence, progress, Europe, autonomy and municipalism. The People's Party is our party, but it's not our homeland. Our homeland is Spain and for our homeland this party - which you know well and which you know very well - has paid a tribute of blood that you now trample on people like you. [[Rumors]] I don't know what his idea of patriotism is, but I don't see it as an insult to those who give their lives for the freedom of all, especially when they have been your companions. Doesn't he really have anything good to say about the party he's been campaigning for most of his life? [[Applauds]] Are you really going to dedicate yourself now to handing out notebooks of good and bad citizen, as Torna has done, as Otegi does and as they did to you? [[Applauds]] That's called ingratitude and disloyalty, here and in Covadonga. It can be measured with us when it has credited as much courage and service to Spain as it has done the party that defeated ETA with the law, with the whole law but only with the law; the party that created 7 million jobs, that put Spain in the euro and that stopped the plan Ibarretxe and the plan Puigdemont. Until then, you should have more respect even if you've already changed your jacket. You go on a new policy, but you already had public office when I was in school and one of your deputies already had a seat here the year I was born. [[A Member of Parliament: Yes, sir!]] His supposed new policy has brought power to his parties, but not to the Spaniards, who only bring problems, instability, fractures and weakness. Let me tell you something: the insults - yours and those of anyone - we will endure them, as we endure terrorism, slavery and the health cord, for freedom and for Spain, and in my case, believe me, I do it with deep personal disappointment. Mr. Abascal, you don't like us. Perfect, got it. You're not us, either. You are already part of the problem of Spain and cannot be part of the solution my party represents. His drift is now irreversible and will not take him where he waits. You are part of the breakup block and we are part of the network of affections and projects that unite and protect the Spaniards. You now boast of being populist with that demagogy of offering easy and generally false solutions to complex problems. I don't see much difference between promising under the cobblestones the beach or herring the Thirds of Flanders instead of dealing with the industry that goes outside of Spain. Or I find it equally ridiculous to ask to storm the skies to discuss the day of the takeover of Granada instead of solving the problems of its tourism. Between the nation of nations and large and free Spain there is an intermediate space where we are forty-seven million Spaniards sick of this polarization in which you spore. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some of them standing]] Sanchez and you are the magnet and the metal, not only attract and complement each other, but also expel anything that resists entering the perverse politics of your magnetic field. The task of the PP is to prevent once again radical minorities like his and Sánchez's from dragging the whole country into confrontation. You separate and we unite. We do keep the memory and the teaching of the mistakes and the historical successes of Spain and know that when we are willing to impose an idea at any price on a society that society always ends up paying the highest price. The path of ash and ruin on which they pretend to medrare leads us only to a country of sides and grudges. We've already been there and we don't want to go back. Both Sanchez and you are equally nostalgic of the past, of the wars of our forefathers, as I would say Delibes. They do not seem to remember the causes of that tragedy or learn from the failure to which they led. Mr. Abascal, VOX is the dream of nationalism and Sánchez's lifesaver. The left has been wanting a game like VOX for thirty years, and you've given it to him. His is a sad example of self-fulfilling prophecy: he ended up facilitating what he said he was going to avoid. The truth is, he didn't rent his winnings. One can recover from everything except the crutch status of this Government. You will pass and only leave rubble, like Sanchez, but the People's Party will continue to build a better country every day and for everyone. It is now for forty years; with successes and mistakes - for which we have already paid and which will never be repeated - working for everyone, whether they vote for us or not, they applaud us or not. The PP has received the last two absolute majorities that the Spanish have granted in Spain and I think we will receive the next one they want to grant. I'm sure the Spaniards aren't going to give themselves up to the confrontation and the breakup you're promoting. They will choose to reform again and they will choose to live together again and, for that, they will find the People's Party again. [[Applauds]] The founding responsibility of the party that I chair was to unite everything that was on the right of the PSOE, but now we have to get the regrouping of all the constitutionalists, also those social democrats embarrassed by what Sánchez is doing, and those regionalists who want to continue living in united and diverse Spain that we gave ourselves in 1978, in which we all fit. The populists of all the parties today receive bad news: the People's Party is not going to put the choirs or the second voice to the project of breaking up Spain, either on the left or on the right, or on Sánchez's or VOX's. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u31	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u32	I'm finishing up, President. Mr Abascal, you have seriously weakened the line of defense of the Spanish nation, which was not in remote episodes of our history, but at the gates of the polling stations just a few months ago. You called to break ranks, but we will continue to recruit dreams and hopes for the Spaniards without you. None of the epics you have resorted to in your propaganda would have ever occurred if your protagonists had acted like you. The distance between your ambition and your patriotism is too great to go through with this cheating motion. This is more like the pathetic end at El Lazarillo de Tormes's Blind Staircase. Someone has told him to jump as far away as he can and tossed himself with the wall of reality. The reality is that all of Spain has seen that you are the partner in the shadow of this government, to which you have given today the failure of your motion. Spain is experiencing the worst crisis of its democracy because of Sánchez's arrogance and incompetence, but also because of his accomplices on both sides of this Chamber. Our country will not find stability and the path of the future again as extremists occupy more than two hundred seats in this House. That is why we will do our utmost to ensure that wisdom and solvency are opened up between the two poles and, by doing so, we will regain freedom and prosperity, because this legislature has degenerated with this government. I'm done, Madam President. I don't want Spain because it's perfect, I want it to be perfect. Constitutional Spain is a treasure of generosity and responsibility to which we must make our own contribution. That is why we must put at the centre what we all think is necessary and avoid what can be unacceptable to everyone. That is the agreement, that is how the great political consensus is created and that is how the great majorities are created, which change the bad governments and lead the great nations. That is Spain I believe in, that is Spain that our children deserve. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- Various Members: President, President, President!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u34	I thought, Mr. Married, that he was upset by the applause corridors; less bad. Finally returns the usual PP, finally returns today the deputy secretary of communication of Mariano Rajoy. It seems that you have taken off your mask today, but what is worse, Mr Casado, you have joined today the brutal caricature of VOX, the brutal caricature of Santiago Abascal, to which you know well and which is not what you have described; you have joined the brutal caricature of fifty-two Members, you have joined the brutal caricature of the millions of Spaniards who voted for us and you have joined the brutal caricature of some Spaniards who still vote for you only because you see that in the electoral expectations you were ahead of us. That's what you did today, Mr. Married. [[Applauds]] I assure you that I did not expect this to be your intervention at all. [[Rumors]] You have come up here today to say that we have strengthened Mr. Sánchez. He has criticized the introduction of a motion of censure because they don't give the numbers. The request of reprobation to Paul Churches which you have presented - and which, by the way, we are going to support - has sufficient numbers? No, no, [[Applauds]] According to your own argument, you will strengthen Mr.Paul Iglesias with that request for reprobation; but, what is even worse, you will weaken the figure of your majesty the king because it is reproved precisely by the attacks on the Crown, according to your own argument. Mr Casado, I deeply regret what you have done here today, because accusing us of strengthening Mr Sánchez's government what you have done is to kick hope and generate brutal despair in millions of Spaniards who had some expectation that we could talk, dialogue and reach agreements. You here today have come to place yourself in an impossible, false, equidistance, in which you do not believe, between the party and the government that are negotiating with Bildu and us, the party through which you govern in Madrid, Andalusia and Murcia. [[Applauds]] He has joined the brutal caricature of VOX and for a moment I thought that the speech, in which he had so many coincidences with Mr Sánchez, had done so to you Mr Redondo, and I assure you that I personally regret it. [[Applauds]] Mr. Married, believe me if I tell you that I do not regret your lack of support; I understand it. Believe me if I tell you I'm not sorry for your vote against; I can understand that. Believe me if I tell you that I do not regret the political criticism you can make of VOX; we think differently about many things. But I deeply regret your personal attack on me today in this rostrum. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] And I'll tell you something else, Mr. Married, respected Paul, I won't pay you with the same coin. [[Applauds]] I would really like you to say 'thank you' sometime, simply thank you for having facilitated the governments of Andalusia, Murcia and Madrid in exchange for zero posts, and also to commit to compliance with the government pacts. Mr Casado, we have not asked for anything for us either in Murcia, Andalusia or Madrid, only measures that we consider beneficial for all Spaniards in those communities; that is all. [[Applauds]] Give us thanks and commit to fulfill. If I were like you proved to be here today, because I really didn't expect it to be so, you would stop ruling in Murcia in Madrid and Andalusia tomorrow, but I can tell you, Mr. Casado, that Andalusians, Batians and Madridns can have peace of mind about VOX's historical responsibility right now. [[protests and applause]] [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] And then, if it's not much to ask, I beg you to ask some of your party's and media's cheerleaders to stop insulting us; I was going to ask you that, but I don't think you will after what I've heard about both VOX and me personally today, especially because some, the more exalted they are, the thinner their skin. If you want to fight, which is what it seemed today, mess with the thug, which is what the other day advised Mr Errejón, but do not come to fight here with whom we are supporting him. [[Applauds]] I am still perplexed by the equidistance that you have deployed today in this rostrum. You really think we're the same thing? Do you really believe that, Mr. Married? Is it really believed that we are the same as the government that has agreed with ETA and the communists? Is it really believed that we, who defend the Constitution and reforms of the Constitution, of course, but who defend the rule of law, the independence of judges, with more strength than you, are the same as these gentlemen who want to colonize the General Council of the Judiciary, the CNI, the police, control public television? Do you really think we're the same? Because today you have put yourself in exactly the middle of a way that has left me absolutely perplexed, Mr Casado. [[Applauds]] You can go out and do what you asked; go out here, thank ourselves, we don't ask you much more, and put forward cooperation agreements, as many Spaniards are hoping, or even put forward a motion and ask us for the vote, which we would have given you, and show you an alternative. You have not done so and we have thought that at this historic moment this government deserved censorship, and we have done so, despite the wear and tear that VOX could suffer and that the candidate may suffer, because we are convinced that it was our moral obligation. You could do that, thank us, present an alternative, or you can do what your admired Merkel, join the sanitary cordon and agree with the Socialist Party in those autonomous communities, which is what half of your party seems to be wanting to do and, unfortunately, what you seem to have decided today, but I have to say that we are not going to make it easy for you and that we are not going to give ourselves up for the intervention you have had here today because we have a responsibility to the Spaniards, who, beyond the legitimate differences we have, demand an alternative, Mr Married. [[Applauds]] But what you can't do is like Mr. Sánchez, now that he's so pious and so papist, be at Mass and saying, which is exactly what you've done today in this rostrum, come out here to kick his own partners in an indescribable way. Do you want us to talk about Europe, about Brussels? Because you've accused us of Europhobes. You have come to lie to this rostrum about us, as Mr Sánchez does, and you have said that we pose a spexit. Do you want us to talk about the garrison of the couptist Puigdemont, who enjoys freedom because that Europe has granted him asylum, as when Belgium and France protected ages? Belgium continues to do so. Why don't you tell your friend Merkel to stop laughing at Spain, Mr. Casado, or your friend Mr. Macron? Well, to that better be told by the lords of Citizens. To defend the idea of the founding partners of the European Union, that is, that of a European Union of free and sovereign states that does not drift towards federalism is anti-European, Europhobic, Eurosceptic? Is the defence of a model similar to that of Nice, for example, Eurosceptic? Are Mr Orbán, the Polish Government, anti-European? Is the Visegrad Group? Why? Why do you say it, why do you say it? Does another model of Europe, a different Europe, mean that others are no longer European, no longer European? I say that you will have, that we will have, opinions as valid as yours on the way Europe should go. And yes, there are many European governments, many European parties and many millions of Europeans who think that Brussels, Mr Casado, does not fit well in the continental model, and if you take a walk through Molenbeek or some other neighbourhoods in Spain you will realize perfectly well that this is not the way to Europe. I had a number of matters that I intended to discuss with you, but I have decided not to do so at this moment, Mr Casado. And I'm not going to do it because I don't want to feed the scum anymore on the alternative that so many Spaniards need. I will not contribute to the show you gave today in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] I deeply regret this and ask you to rectify it. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u35	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Abascal, two years we have endured your insults, two years and five campaigns. You made the mistake of coming here with a motion of censure. Now that the Roland Garros is over, do you know about unforced mistakes? You have committed double fault, and you have done so at the price that the winner today is Mr Sánchez. That's why I said you're the one who allowed this to happen. I'll give you a simile. This is like an aerostatic balloon, the more heat, the more chryspation, the more appeal to trenches there is, the higher the government. In addition, a government that we know will never let go of what it would be necessary to let go of: public spending, the independence partners, the partners that support the laundering of terrorism; is able to let go of a bust of its majesty the king, who weighs a lot, or is able to let go of a stone map of national unity so as to remain on that globe, that its heat, that its attitude is making it stay in the air. To undertake the possibility that this Government - as we have done and call on the rest of the parties to do - can abandon power, what must be done is to have the solvency, the experience and a government program that you lack. Today I did not spend the time to transfer public opinion, as I did yesterday with the Vice-President of the European Commission, as I did last week with the President of the European Commission or as we have been giving up every week here, the project that is needed in Spain, an alternative economic plan to lower taxes, to eliminate bureaucratic obstacles, to give more job flexibility, more competitiveness. We do not need it because we have the mark of the identity of those who have already done so twice, of those who have managed to overcome two recessions, also left by the Socialist Party. [[Protests.- Mr Sánchez García utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u37	Quiet, please. Mr. Sánchez García, I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u38	To be on the bridge of command of a transatlantic like Spain, what needs to be done is know how to drive more than a water bike, especially when that transatlantic goes straight to the icebergs and has someone like Pedro Sánchez at the helm. What we are asking is no longer that you take the helm, but that you are not your lifeboat, which is what you have done today. Read the press, read the social media he likes so much. You've given this government a bonus track for the next few months, Mr. Abascal. [[Applauds]] You speak of the autonomous, municipal and provincial governments in which we do not govern together. You guys supported an investiture. What did they want, to support Susana Díaz instead of Juanma Moreno? You wanted to support Don Diego Conesa instead of Don Fernando López Miras? Mr. Gabilondo instead of Mrs. Ayuso? Mrs. Carmena instead of Mr. Martinez-Almeida? We are not ruling in those governments and, therefore, we are not going to be hostage to what you say here. And what you said yesterday is a record of topics that do not have to be given again in Spanish politics. There has been talk of the People's Republic of China, there has been talk of the conspiracy of the economic, business elites of Soros. Mr Abascal, in this is not the moderate Spanish society, which needs answers to a pandemic that is leaving a million infected people in the stand and that has already claimed the lives of sixty thousand people. And what we have come to say to you, Mr Abascal, is that right now we must unite efforts against this government, but not with filibuster mechanisms that give it more capacity to unite its support from the investiture, but rather as a serene, sensible, moderate, responsible and pro-European alternative. How can you come yesterday to criticize the European Union at a time when our future, because of an irresponsible government, is once again dependent on the solidarity of our partners? Do you know the irresponsibility that the international newspapers and weekly reports of this? How can you once again insult Mrs Merkel, who is the European Union's current president and our party's partner, who, together with Mrs Von der Leyen and Mrs Lagarde, has allowed EUR 140 billion to come to Spain so that, if Mr Sánchez can manage them well, we can get out of the deep economic crisis that this pandemic has created and that we have already dragged away because of its ineptness in management in recent years? What should we do? [[Applauds]] What we are doing, trying to make an independent agency, trying to make a shock plan, agreeing on the National Reform Programme, half-yearly compliances, demanding what Sanchez is uncomfortable about, which is in the real management policy, the concerns people have when they turn off the light of their night table. Or what do you think, that a pensioner today is thinking about what Soros says or thinking that they said they're going to freeze their pension? What do you think, that a young man out of that 44% of young Spaniards who are unemployed is worried about the Chinese virus or is worried that he is not going to get a job and that there are already five million unemployed in Spain? What do you think? Do you believe that a Spanish family who cannot pay the mortgage or who fears that their second residence, as a middle class, is occupied, is very interested in Hitler's Europe? And do you intend us to support that stumbling block that you poured on this House? [[Applauds]] Listen, Mr Abascal, since you read History so much, look at this House; we are in the oldest nation in Europe, before the statues of the Catholic Kings. The Spanish nation does not deserve a government proposal like the one you left here yesterday. [[Applauds]] Yes, Mr Abascal, we are at serious times; the same moments that I have been narrating and denouncing for two years. It is this party that has gone to Europe to stop the abuse of judicial independence and the separation of powers. It is this party that defends the constitutional monarchy, but without patrimonializing it. I have come out to defend the king of Spain twice in six months. The first, in the investiture session, when Bildu's said it was a head of the authoritarian state. The next, a few weeks ago, when Paul Iglesias began to insult him, but the monarchy belongs to everyone. What we have to do is broaden the bases so that we can all feel identified with this Spain, which is diverse but which must be united. That project of national reconciliation, that constitutive agreement, is that which you tarnish with a project of rupture, which is the contrary of which Pedro Sánchez is proposing. Yes, Mr. Sánchez, four of the seven parents of the Spanish Constitution belong to my party. In the PP they ended of course Manuel Fraga, of course Miguel Herrero de Minón, but also José Pedro Pérez-Llorca and also Gabriel Cisneros, who was attacked and shot by one of his partners. [[Applauds]] This party, which has not only been fundamental to Spanish democracy, but is essential for the construction of the European Union, which was based on the Christian Democrats, the Conservatives and the Liberals who are currently in the European People's Party, cannot accept projects of rupture either on their part or on the left, or on the nationalism or on the demagogy that you represent. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Therefore, what we are asking, Mr Abascal and Mr Sánchez, Mr Sánchez and Mr Abascal, is a Spain that returns to common projects. It is a project suggestive of life in common, it is that country of agreement that, according to Marias, is the ground on which the agreements and disagreements rest; it is not that Cainite Spain that you are trying to paint here. So, Mr Abascal and Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias, independent nationalist gentlemen, the People's Party remains that restraint, remains the crux of the vast majority of Spaniards who want to continue living in peace and freedom; it continues to belong to the European project, which is the most important political event of the last centuries; it continues to belong to that Atlanticism of the West that respects values and freedoms, which has no ideology. You, who like Reagan, like me, remember when he was talking about politics being no longer two vectors, that there is no longer left and right; there is up and down. But not the bottom of the struggle of the proletariat and the top of the classes that some advocate because they have not learned to be buried in the helmets when the Berlin wall fell; no. It is the bottom of interventionism, of collectivism, of that closed society, complexed, bitter, and it is that top of a free society, of a society that aspires to be greater than the State, that aspires not to be told what it has to do, that aspires to be able to move forward and that, by helping its family, raising the blind, pushing forward to pay its workers, it does not realize that it is contributing to its country and also to the European Union and its community. [[a Member of Parliament: Bravo!]] So, Mr. Abascal, Mr. Sánchez, I'm so sorry, we're not like you. We are the calm force of the Spaniards, we are that sensible and moderate Spain which, once again, will again represent this great country as soon as the Spaniards have the opportunity to democratically choose their government and to pass the page of a parenthesis of history too black and already too long. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- Several ladies and gentlemen: Bravo!-Pausa.- Mr Casado Blanco stands up from his seat to greet his deputies.- Various Members: Bravo, brave, President!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u39	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u40	What a joy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group! Do you know what those applause sounds like? To the music of the Titanic orchestra when it sinks. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies ……]] I do not know what you applaud today with such joy, because I have told you that I understand that you do not support us and that I understand your political criticism, but I do not understand the equidistance in which you have been placed and the destruction that you have tried to perpetrate against VOX today. I do not understand it and many Spaniards do not understand it and therefore I do not understand your joy because today you have given sadness and despair to many Spaniards who are seeing us and who understand our differences, but who do not understand this fight of political attacks and personal attacks in which you have turned the debate. He has come here to tell us that the king is of all; he has practically bought the arguments of Mr. Iglesias. When the king is attacked, do not go out and defend him. The king, who cannot defend himself... yes, he has come to cheer us up, looked at me and told me that the king is of all, Mr. Abascal. [[Mr Casado Blanco pronounces words that are not perceived]] Who told you otherwise? Moreover, it is so much more valued than all the Members in this House. But then the Constitution seems to be yours only because only you have parents of the Constitution. The Constitution is also for everyone, even for those who want to reform it by democratically complying with the legal reform procedures, Mr Casado. [[Applauds]] You have come here to say that we have given air to this government for months; you have given sadness and despair to many Spaniards for many months today. What we have achieved with this motion of censure is this portrait, all of them together again, in which you are not, quiet, you are with different arguments, I know, but you have wanted to place yourself in the midst of those who are negotiating with ETA and of us. [[showing a role with anagrams of political parties in Spain]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And that, Mr. Married, is an infamy that politically outrages me and personally saddens me because you say so. We will try to amend and correct the gigantic mistake that you have made today in the rostrum. Therefore, the voters of the People's Party can be reassured, because we continue to reach out to them, despite all that you have said about us today. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u41	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Government has requested the floor. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Now the motion of censure has begun, hasn't it? I think you are aware, Mr Casado, that this is not a motion of censure against the Government, it is a motion of censure against you. I've always had him, and I keep him with great intellectual respect. Today you have made a brilliant political speech here. You have made a political speech here today, a canonist, that is stuck in the conservative traditions of the most intelligent Spanish right, but I think you are as conscious as I am that that speech is late. Your Honor, this motion is a battle on the right, a battle for the definition of leadership. Mr Abascal presents this motion because he wants to get out of here as a moral leader of the right and wants his political formation to be the director of all the right-wing parties in the opposition. I think you're perfectly aware of that. That's why you made the speech you made here today. But he's late. I will give you some information that you probably know, but perhaps not all your Members. Yesterday, before the debate on the motion of censure began, a famous surveyor distributed a note with some facts that illustrate how the civil war you have with each other is. That poll said that 50% of all voters on the right think that the PP and Citizens should vote in favour of Abascal as a candidate for President of the Government in this motion of censure, 50%. The poll says that more than 80% of the voters in the People's Party think that their party should vote in favour or abstain in this motion, of which the majority would like you to vote in favour. 70% of citizens' voters, Mrs Arrimadas, would like you to order their Members to vote in favour or abstain, and those who would like to vote in favour and those who would like to abstain are virtually equal. If the data of this surveyor, Mr. Married and Mrs. Arrimadas, are more or less true, you are lost, you are in a jam that you are not going to be able to get out of and that you have got into on your own. I'll tell you something else, Mr. Casado. This motion has been followed with enormous attention by many embassies, not only the Embassy of the People's Republic of China, but also the embassies of all the powers of the European Union, and not because the European countries and their chancelleries are concerned about what Mr Abascal says - they know the far right - but because they know that you depend on Mr Abascal. In Europe you know that much of your regional governments, such as that of the Community of Madrid and many others, depend, as the candidate reminded you, on the ultra-right, and that in Europe you do not like, and in Europe you know that all the possibilities you would have to reach the Council of Ministers would depend on Mr Abascal and the ultra-right, and that in Europe you do not like. What is more, what we are living here today is an ideological battle, as Mr Espinosa de los Monteros also intelligently said, for the cultural field of the right, and I believe, because you are an intelligent person, who is aware that you are winning it. Look, Your Honor, I will remind you of what some European leaders say of the conservative tradition you represent, and also of the liberal tradition in which Citizens wanted to be represented. Mrs Merkel described the alliance of her own party with the far right in Thuringia as a bad day for democracy, and we all know what happened next. He said - and I quote literally -: This House must oppose the extremist discourse; otherwise, our society will not be the free society it is. This is what Mrs Merkel said, who, if you remember, in a rally, when someone went to give you a flag from Germany, said that your party had no right to take out a flag that has to represent all Germans. [[Applauds]] The problem is that it is too late for you to act like German Christian democracy. Mrs. Arrimadas, I quote Emmanuel Macron literally: There can be no alliances with the far right in Spain. We look at what the People's Party does, but obviously also what Citizens do, with whom we have long-standing friendly ties. Any alliance with the far right is very serious; a common platform between Citizens and the far right would call into question political cooperation to build a renewed centrist group in the European Union. This is not an anecdote; it is one of our great concerns. France will have no complacency with these approaches. I know, Mrs. Arrimadas, that you think Albert Rivera was wrong to go to Columbus Square. I know that you agree with Mr Bal, that perhaps because he was more European than you, he had enough instinct to know what that picture meant in Columbus Square. Don't laugh, Mrs. Arrimadas, your election result has much to do with having taken a picture with the extreme right in Columbus Square. [[Applauds]] And that is precisely why you have been making a smarter speech lately that wants to get a little closer to the liberal tradition, but it is too late, because you depend on the far right to rule in the Community of Madrid, in the City Council of Madrid in other territories. And out of that, you can't get out; it's too late. Do you know the implications of that? That the European Liberals and Conservatives, Mrs Arrimadas, Mr Casado, will not endorse you and will not help you to ever return to the Council of Ministers in Spain, because you are the gateway to the far right, and that goes against the interests of the major European powers. That is the result of the strategic estultice of their political decisions in recent times. [[Applauds]] I tell you something else: I suppose, Mr. Married, that you have been aware of President Donald Trump's uncomplexed claim that VOX candidates have made. We do not know what will happen in the US elections, but I suspect - I think you too - that this time the Democrats will win. Do you believe that, after the November elections in the United States, if the Democrats win, American diplomacy can understand that a political force like you comes to the government of the fourth euro area economy, depending on the far right? What a strategic position you have remained in, ladies and gentlemen. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I am not going to go into insults, disqualifications, but I do want to comment on some elements of enormous political importance for our country, which have been defined in this motion of censorship of the ultra-right against the right of all life. The end of the conditions for the possibility of a minimally moderate right in Spain has been certified here. This is not something new; this is part of the historical problems of the right. The most intelligent Spanish right always claimed Cánovas and the theoretical legacy of Donoso Cortés. The problem is that too many times in history you saw yourself facing your own unconscious, your own nature, because these gentlemen arise from you, Mr. Married, and these gentlemen unfortunately represent an unconscious capable of winning at you the ideological battle. I know, Paul, that you are not an ultra, nor is Mrs. Ana Pastor an ultra. We have sometimes discussed in private recognizing ourselves as representatives of two historical political traditions in our country that could have huge differences... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u44	...and that they have experienced situations of confrontation in the past enormously serious, but that at least could be recognized and could speak, and I know that you would like that scenario to be possible. What happens is that in alliance with these people you have not left political space in Spain so that there is a democratic-Christian canoeing right that can claim in the theoretical tradition of Donoso Cortés. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Mrs Arrimadas, neither will you be able to claim in the tradition of Práxedes Mateo Sagasta nor will you be able to claim, as they did in the past, the liberals of Cadiz. You, ladies and gentlemen, gave the monster oxygen and now the monster is devouring you. Do you know what the best proof of this is? His attitude, his aggressiveness. They are unable to remain silent when a speaker who says things that they do not like is taking the floor from the rostrum, and that aggression does not respond to what you are, because you are perfectly capable of behaving, but you have internalized that you have to compete with VOX. Do you believe that it is not clear that the election of Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo as the parliamentary spokesman of your party was a way of competing culturally for the space they are fighting with VOX, and that what they did precisely was to raise the aggression to such absurd extremes that it forced them to replace their spokesman, who by the way do we not know what will vote on this motion of censure? - See if you can explain it later, and if at least you are such a serious party as to keep parliamentary discipline in your group -. [[Applauds]] But, look, what we have encountered with the replacement of Mrs Álvarez de Toledo by Mrs Gamarra is that although at first she tried to bring a different style, the political dynamics itself forces her to maintain the same style... [[rumors]] [[Protests.-Mr.Matari Sáez: What did this come out of?-Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u45	Silence, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u46	...and say the same things... [[The protests continue.-Mr. Garcés Sanagustín utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u47	Excuse me, second vice president; one moment, please. I'm asking for silence. Lord Matarí, silence, please; you do not have the floor. [[A Member: Well, neither did he.-Laughter]] The second Vice-President has the floor. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u48	I think you're aware, Paul, that the rude and rude behavior of your bench is doing you a lot of damage, because the brilliant speech you've made here today is incompatible with those permanent disrespects, and you, who are an intelligent man, are aware of it. [[Applauds]] Mr. Married, this road has no end. You're not a cowardly right, you're not. They appealed the Statute of Catalonia to the Constitutional Court; they also appealed to the Constitutional Court for homosexual marriage by placing themselves in more conservative positions than those that are now maintaining nothing more and nothing less than the Pope of Rome; you applied austerity with iron hand, cut public services, lowered taxes on the rich and destroyed labour rights; they have blocked the General Council of the Judiciary, and their president in the Community of Madrid has openly declared that the opposition to the Socialcommunist Government is she, the King of Spain and the judges. You, Mr. Married, created a political police force in the Ministry of the Interior to try to protect your own criminals and to try to fabricate false news against the opponents; and, although you have done all that, VOX keeps calling them right cowardly. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Don't you realize it has no end? That as hard as you are your parliamentarians, as ill-educated, as lacking, as many barbarities as your senators say, as much as you try to be more radical than VOX is impossible for you to win the ideological and cultural battle in that field of play? I think you are aware, but you know that you are trapped, because you depend on Mr Abascal to continue to rule, to have some chance of government in Spain, and you also know that in the distribution of ideological positions you have all those to win. That's why you and Mrs. Arrimadas are lost. [[Applauds]] Mr. Married, being conservative, being a canoeer is not only a slogan, it involves making political decisions. You had to have stopped José María Aznar's feet. [[Laughter]] Really...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u49	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u50	...that I understand...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u51	Keep your respect.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u52	Don't you realize that every time you scream, every time you act with that bad education in parliamentary office you are introducing thousands of votes in the VOX ballot box, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applauds]] I ask you at least political intelligence to defend your own interests as a party. I was saying, Mr. Married, that you should have had the strength as conservative leader to stop Mr. Aznar's feet. There is a very intelligent monarchic journalist who said Aznar was the pianist who played three keyboards: an orange keyboard, which sounded smoother; a blue keyboard, which sounded more traditional; and a green keyboard, which sounded much more bronchus. But it was José María Aznar who was playing the keys of those three keyboards. And precisely because of that ideological project of aznarism you are lost in the pitiful strategic situation in which you are. Aznar's FAES said a few days ago - and I quote literally -: Parliament is not sovereign above all when left, pompites and nationalists have a majority. Don't you realize it's the same thing Abascal's saying? The VOX candidate knows perfectly well that as long as political parties are not illegal in this country it is impossible for you to return with them to the Council of Ministers and, therefore, defended yesterday openly here that we must be illegalized by reds, by the PNV by Basques, by Bildu by the same, by Esquerra Republicana, by Junts per Catalunya. What you're saying is not crazy. He knows perfectly well that only by illegalizing those whom they regard as the enemies of Spain, and who are therefore unable to represent national sovereignty, can you come to power. However, you made a very similar mistake a few weeks ago when you said that the Spanish and I had not voted for us and, to the head of state, yes. You were actually falling into the trap of considering that the foundation of the Spanish political system is the monarchical principle and not the General Courts, and that is the great trap of aznarism. [[Applauds]] Mr Casado, the cornerstone of our democracy, on which even the parliamentary monarchy depends, is the Courts. Don't forget to be a canoeer. All of this implies a very obvious conclusion, and that is that you are unable to reach agreements. I know that surely you are sorry and that if you could go back to the past, as if Mrs. Arrimadas could go back to the past, you would understand that you made a huge mistake by giving wings to the far right. The problem is that from the moment you govern in the autonomous communities supported by the ultra-right you could only return to the government of Spain led by the ultra-right, with the ultra-right within the Council of Ministers. You know that that the European powers, that a United States with a conventional president, that that the majority of Spanish society itself and even most of the entrepreneurs - who know that this country needs minimal stability - will not consent, and that is what puts you in an impossible strategic position. There's something I don't understand. It is evident that every time VOX defends the monarchy it is shortening the life of the monarchy. They will end up calling from Zarzuela saying, "Please do not defend me any more, do not defend me any more; I thank you very much, but do not defend me any more. Because at the bottom, VOX doesn't care. VOX uses the king of Spain as an identity signifier that they would be able to throw on the ground when they stopped agreeing because they are not monarchical, they are simply reactionary. They are perfectly aware that every time they identify the monarchy with the ultra-right, what they do is reduce the possibility of historical survival to the monarchy institution in Spain. They don't care, but you shouldn't care. Every time you assume that the monarchy in Spain is only an ideological reference of the right and the right-wing party camp, you build a minority monarchy block, and I as a Republican should not tell you this, but as Vice President of the Government I have to tell you; you respect the constitutional monarchy, Mr Casado. [[Applauds]] I would like to refer - in order to finish - to the political forces which form not only a majority of investiture, not only a majority which must allow this government to take the budgets forward, but which form - and I believe that this motion of censure must serve to reinforce that - a bloc of state leadership with a historical meaning. One of the original fundamental shortcomings of the Spanish State has been its excessive centralism. When many of his lordships and many of those who preceded them in the political representation of plurinational Spain said that the State was too Madridish, they were absolutely right. The historical centralist construction of our State, also identified with a way of understanding the monarchy that went in a direction opposed to the multicultural, plurinational and pluri-institutional reality of our country, led us to have to manage today one of the great political problems of our homeland, which is not exclusive to our homeland, also happens to other European countries. I think you need to know how to read the historic opportunity that it means for the democratic forces - which we are the majority in this House - to take on a leadership of state reform, to democratise our country, to bet on the public, to read that the main lesson of this pandemic is the need to have a much better health, whether that health is managed in Basque, Galician, Catalan or Spanish. [[Applauds]] And that's what we have to build all of them together. Ladies and gentlemen, I am from Madrid, but I am proud that different languages are spoken in my country, and I am proud that there is an institutional plurality in my country. I am proud, Mr Rufián, that the Catalan Generalitat is a heritage not of democracy in Catalonia but of Spanish democracy. I am proud, Mr de Bildu and Mr PNV, that the Basque institutions and that Navarro Civil Law are a heritage of Spanish democracy. I am proud that the citizens of my homeland identify and get excited with different symbols, but each and every one of them knows that the most beautiful flag is the uniform of health professionals. [[Applauds]] We have a task, ladies and gentlemen, which will enable us and must enable us to face the great structural weaknesses of our State. This involves initiating a process of re-industrialization that can limit the historical shortcomings of an economic model that was too much based on dependence on international tourism, which was too much based on building and real estate bubble dynamics, which were the material basis of corruption. We must bet on sustainable development, on a diverse, plurinational and social model of a country in Europe that looks much more like Spain. Some economists say that great catastrophes, contrary to what may seem, do not turn atheists into believers, but instead turn neo-liberals into neo-keynesians. Let us seize the opportunity - which many of those who preceded us did not have - to take on the historic tasks of Spain. This coalition government, the first coalition government of recovered democracy, cannot do so alone, must rely on you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Finally, I would like to address the people who are listening to this debate: the young people who are suffering from job insecurity, those who have already experienced two crises in a row and who see the future with scepticism and uncertainty. To women, who have everything more difficult and who, when they achieve the objectives that are proposed with a lot of effort - for example, by becoming Members in this House - there are some sexists who despise them by telling them that they are florists in the hands of a man. [[Applauds]] To all people, who see with fear the possibility that a party that hates them, such as VOX, can come to have more power in Spain. Migrants who have come from other countries to live and work with us, often fleeing from very difficult situations. There is more dignity and patriotism in a nail of any migrant worker, who goes out every day to work to seek life for his family, than in each and every parliamentarian of the far right. [[Applauds]] To the working class, to all men and women who do get up every day to give their jobs a call, to open their businesses or to look for work, and who suffer the exploitation of young men with compound surnames such as those who make up the parliamentary group of the far right. Those who care, health care, nurses, workers in social services, those who change diapers, those who care for our elders, all those who know that the greatest pride of our country and what unites us all, regardless of the language we speak or the symbol that thrills us, are public services. To all people who do not fit in narrow Spain on the right, as Machado said, you and you are the best in Spain. We will not allow anyone to bring to the homeland a dictatorship that wants to destroy the dignity, freedom, solidarity, culture and rights of all. They will always have us in front of them, in the government and next to our people. The homeland is the people. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u53	Thank you, Mr. Second Vice President. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr. Casado Blanco asks for the floor.]] Mr Casado, your speaking hours have been exhausted. I will give you an exceptional turn according to article 73.1 of the Constitution. You have five minutes in a single intervention. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iglesias, I thought you were coming up here to announce your resignation on the basis of your code of ethics, which you have been throwing at other benches throughout your political and pre-political trajectory. You represent a party that is accused of irregular financing - yesterday the request of this accusation was again ratified - and whose number two has just been declared in rebellion, without declaring in a court that tries to know whether it was responsible for the aggression against the public authority. He is now part of a government that came from a motion of censure to request exemplaryness and that has you accused for three crimes, he has another vice president accused of irregular subsidies in Andalusia, another vice president with an opaque heritage society and three ministers - including the vice president and also the spokesman - who were on the governing council of the Andalusian Board when the EREs were granted. That's all they represent today. But I do not want to reject the ideological debate that you bring to this House because you know that I, too, like and take care of myself. He talked about that event where Merkel turned down a flag. Let me quote you when Santiago Carrillo interrupted a rally in Valladolid to ask them to withdraw a tricolor flag saying that he no longer represented him. Let me remind Adolfo Suárez, when Alberti and Suárez were hugged in this House or the Passionary with Gutiérrez Mellado. That is the appeal that we make, that the hugs that our grandparents gave - yours and mine have told us many things of that time - do not undo their grandchildren, because we have no right to reopen a history of reconciliation. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] We have no right to tarnish something exemplary that amazed the world and that I want my children to enjoy just as they, the exiles and the reprisals, decided to do. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Bravo!-Applause]] That's what distinguishes you and us coming from the same side of history, at least in our families. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some of them standing]] It's true, yesterday Mr. Sanchez quoted a fable that I told him in one of his investitures, that of the scorpion and the frog. What is happening, Mr Sánchez, is that the frog was you and the scorpion you are carrying to cross this legislature is a party that has already shown that it is relentless in trying to reach power levels, historically, even by defining itself as orthodox communists. They've always done it with the Socialist Party; they did it in Greece, they did it in France, they tried to do it in Italy and Portugal, but both Costa and El Olivo were smarter. We don't have that problem, Mr. Churches, because you share much more with VOX than you think. Today we have seen here a scene that looked like the alley of the Gato, Vallenclanesco; concave mirrors that gave the same image in that vector of radicality or moderation, in that vector of reconciliation or revanchism, in that vector of party ideology of extreme left or populist right, or of a centrist and moderation field in which the Spaniards feel identified. I'll tell you something, there are many young people and many professionals who went to the Sun Gate in the 15-M who start identifying with the People's Party, because they don't want mantras, they don't just want warehouse ideology, they don't want to dust the old jackets; what they want is solutions for their life. [[applause]] They were outraged, yes, but they have realized that this outrage is compounded by frustration, disappointment in trusting a party that has now become an abomination, in the establishment of an elephantic government that, even doubling the number of portfolios, is unable to overcome unsustainable unemployment figures, to prevent young people from having to leave Spain again to be able to work, to prevent pensioners from seeing how their pension is frozen by them again, to prevent officials from fearing because their salary can be cut by the same ten years later, to prevent grandparents from having to house their children again because they have been fired, to prevent Spain from being the problem of Europe again when we were the solution and we were the example all over the world, to avoid once again reopening the seams, the scars in the land of our fertile history, which you are now simply reopening to hide your inability to manage and your ineptitude to propose the future. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Yes, sir! A Member of the European Parliament: Great!]] So, Mr. Iglesias, take care of your powers as second vice president of the government for social policy, take care of what is going on with the pandemic, take care of changing a legal framework so that we never have to go to the Constitutional Court again and people, also autonomy, can solve these problems. Make an economic shock plan, which is really urgent. Take care to defend the inspiring principles that have moved humanity forward always and now, here and anywhere.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u55	Mr. Married, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u56	I'm done, Madam President. For me, these are five principles, the same ones that Adam Smith drew or that later recovered ideologists like Hayek, like Popper or like L. von Mises; the rule of law. How can you say anything here about the monarchy? You, who are attacking after you have promised your office loyally to the king, a king who yes, was ratified six years ago by these Courts in the person of Philip VI and a monarchy who yes, was assumed as a political form of the state democratically in referendum forty years ago. The rule of law is not to occupy the institutions, neither the CNI nor the CIS, nor the Spanish Television; nor to attack the judges, who have had to draw three official communiqués to demand respect, autonomy and independence; nor to put at risk the European funds when the Greek, the Group of States against Corruption of the Council of Europe, said yesterday to this government that it is under surveillance, or Germany also says since the summit that it will have to monitor...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u57	Mr. Married, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u58	I'm done, Madam President. This is institutionality, but it is also individual freedom the second of the principles; the individual freedom that makes you not occupy educational indoctrination again with the counter-reform you seek. Or it is also private property as a third principle, which makes no one understand that you defend the illegal occupation of homes or confiscational taxes. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!-Rumors]] Or it is also personal security, and no one understands that you kick national police and take away the law that protects your rights instead of strengthening the State Security Forces and Bodies, which also protect you. And lastly...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u59	Mr. Married, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u60	And finally - Madam President, thank you very much - equal opportunities. This is another liberal guiding principle of development and prosperity. Equal opportunities, non-egalitarianism in mediocrity, non-egalitarianism now in identity. Read Fukuyama, I know you've read it. The identity, that new ghost since the steel curtain fell. You saw that people were just running from one side of Berlin to another and that people were just swimming in the Florida Strait from one side of the shore to the other. [[Applauds]] They have changed the class struggle, they have changed the fight against capitalism because they can no longer overcome any other option of real socialism, which left misery and degradation all over the world during the twentieth century, death and destruction, and they have passed it to identity by defining us by our gender, by our ideology, by our religion, by our orientation...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u61	Mr. Married, please, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u62	That is not the Spain we want; we want a Spain like that which the constituents have bequeathed to us here; a Spain like that which our children and grandchildren deserve. [[Rumors]] Ours have gone through difficult circumstances, and that is what unites us, Mr. Churches; the three are brave, the three have given up parents who have done much for them. But I'm afraid that's the only thing that unites us; in the rest we're against it and it'll always have us in front of it. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- Various Members: Bravo, brave!-Pausa.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u63	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u64	First of all, I want to ask my colleagues to never do this to me, to never show this incomprehensible joy when you already see the bubbles of sinking. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u65	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u66	It is true that you act with a certain rudeness on many occasions in this rostrum. It's not just a matter of clothing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] Mr. Casado, the wreck you did in thirty minutes hastily tried to fix it in five minutes of reply to Mr. Iglesias. I believe that you have been aware today of the huge mistake you made when you found the applause here I do not know whether of the vice president of the government or of the professor of political sciences of the faculty. I do not know exactly what he has intervened because he has not made many references to the motion, he has only come to analyze his speech and to make historical references. You must be concerned about that applause, but above all, Mr Casado, with that applause millions of voters of the People's Party are concerned. You can be absolutely sure. [[Applauds]] By the way, Mr. Iglesias, you, who are also an intelligent person, I suppose you expected the cobra you received from Mr. Married immediately. He has been very concerned with your applause, with your loas, and has had to come out immediately to say everything he thinks of you, which, by the way, is also what I think of you. [[Applauds]] He made a brilliant speech. He said: I know, Paul, that you are not an ultra - he said by nailing his ultra pupil into his blue pupil -. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Now it turns out that Mr. Iglesias comes to give moderation to this House. Now it turns out that Mr. Iglesias, after Mr. Rufian did yesterday, after Mr. Married, comes here to show that he is a great admirer of Mrs. Merkel. What Mr. Iglesias has shown is that it is never enough for them. They have demanded that they vote no to this motion of censure systematically. We have said that we understand your vote, what we do not understand is your insults and your personal attacks. They have demanded that they vote no more, but they are no longer enough, and they have demanded that they cast a Member if that Member does not comply with the voting discipline. They are the ones who are insatiable and you wanted to compare us to them, Mr. Married. Mr. Iglesias de la Corona speaks; he is no longer only an admirer of Merkel, but wants to give us advice on how to sustain the Crown; the perjury, who swears the office before the king to then betray him, ask for a referendum and want to sink the Crown. [[Applauds]] You have turned all your interventions into a great farce. You come here, Mr. Iglesias, to talk about extremism and the concern in Europe for a party like ours. It is likely that in the European elites there is, I do not deny it, but do you think there is no such thing as yours? Do you think you're making it easier for them to help us in Europe? Do you think you offer our creditors peace of mind? Do you think anyone who has to help Spain has confidence in you? I have no doubt that I don't. The best of all, beyond what you say, is the papal tone with which you ascend to this rostrum. There has been a moment, after the confession made by Mr Errejon here, that I thought you were going to baptize him today, but the papal tone of Mr Iglesias today is the continuation of the papism shown here yesterday by the President of the Government. [[Applauds]] But you don't cheat on anyone. You, Mr. Iglesias, said that our anthem, with which so many Spaniards are excited, is a facsimile pachanga, said in 2008. You said in 2015 that it was reasonable for ETA prisoners to go out of jail, that's why they're getting them out. For you ETA had a lot of political insight, he said it in June 2013, and it was serious what he said, but even more serious is where he said it, in a herriko tavern, in the safe house of terrorists, Mr. Iglesias. [[Applauds]] For you, being a Democrat is expropriating, he said in September 2013. This is what I am sure offers so much peace and quiet in the European institutions. You're ashamed of Spain and you literally said you couldn't even say her name, and you're also ashamed of the flag, you said it in 2013. For you, the private media attack freedom of expression, precisely, he said in November 2013. This also has to give a lot of peace in the European institutions, which you say are so concerned about us. For you the enemy, that is, everyone who does not think like you, beyond your papal tone, understands only one language: the language of force, and so you congratulated Christmas Eve 2015. For you Spain does not exist, today it says it as a cover in this rostrum talking about plurinationality, but you shouted: Viva Catalonia free and sovereign!, on September 13, 2017. For you, Chávez, he was one of yours and you had the disdain to say that the Spaniards who lived in Venezuela were enviable; Spaniards who are now probably starving. For you the lowest social class than yours, that is, now all Spaniards, is lumpen. For you the monarchy has no future, even though it now gives advice on how to defend it, and said so last month since the vice-presidency of the government, and that is why in the middle of a pandemic organized a cacerolade against your majesty the king. You are disqualified for politics in a democratic nation, Mr. Churches, you and only you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u67	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, the name of the Government, the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u68	I will be very brief, ladies and gentlemen, because I do not think it is up to me to get into the war that you are waging among yourselves. Mr. Married, I believe that in your reply you have lost the tone and content you had kept in the first, and also the attitude of your bench has been what we have to see in the control sessions, unfortunately, usually. I think that reveals what we have told you from the rostrum, and that is that even though you now want to be a moderate right-wing leader, you cannot be and are permanently forced to compete with Mr Abascal. How will that be, which Mr Abascal has said from here: I fully agree with what you have said, Mr Casado, about the second vice-president of the government. The VOX candidate I'm going to read a few verses from a Spaniard, Miguel de Cervantes, whom you may not respect as a writer, but I hope you at least respect as a soldier: I'll bet that the soul of the dead, by enjoying this place, has already left the glory where he lives eternally. And he heard a valiant man, and said, It is true that I have flown, my lord soldier, and he that sayeth the contrary lieth. And then, incontinent, he put down the hat, he required the sword, he looked at the slaying, went, and there was nothing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u69	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u70	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has only one legitimate tool to which it owes its name, the word, and there is or should be only one objective: to understand us with words. Therefore, we have a problem when we abuse them because there are words that if they apply to anything, they trivialize and end up not meaning anything, and then it can be difficult to name, even recognize, what we have before us, even if it is very obvious. So, with your help, Mr. Abascal, and with that of your entire group, we're going to clarify the terms and try to call things by your name. Who they are and what they claim has made it clear to your secretary general by praising fascist leaders and threatening to illegalize parties, such as the PNV, as you did here yesterday, by the way, vehemently. Who they are has made it clear his MEP, Jorge Buxadé, repeating slogans of the Vichy regime, a collaborator of Nazism, and also his deputy, Rocío de Meer, who is dedicated to promoting messages from neo-Nazi parties across Europe on social networks. Look, they've attacked Members of this House, they've attacked Mr. Pisarello for his Argentinian origin, and they've attacked my partner, Beatriz Carrillo, for being a gypsy. Beatriz, in Romani, Opre Romnia, partner. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]] And in case anyone had any doubts, you and your telonero have spent more than three hours exalting the Franco dictatorship. So let us call things by their name: you are a fascist party. [[Applauds]] And it's not that I say it, it's that they show it as soon as they can. And look, Mr Abascal, those dictators to whom you pay tribute, shame the history of Europe and for forty years have shamed this country before a world that saw us as a backward country, of prisons, oppression and death. Those dictators, whose slogans you repeat and Korean, persecuted, imprisoned, tortured and murdered feminists, homosexuals, atheists, teachers, intellectuals, trade unionists, workers and activists of all ideologies represented in this House today. They persecuted, imprisoned and murdered Communist Party militants, liberals, Christian Democrats, nationalists, regionalists and Socialist Party militants, such as Indalecio Prieto and Francisco Largo Caballero. [[Applauds]] And you, the defenders of the most shameful tyranny in history, come to this House to speak of freedom and call a totalitarian government elected by free citizens in a free country. There is more love of freedom within an inch of the skin of any Democrat Member of this House than in its entire parliamentary group. [[Applauds]] And it is true that some parties separate me almost everything, but today the important thing is precisely that 'almost', because that is where we recognize the Democrats against those who defend dictators and tyrants. Mr Abascal - the prestigious candidate they promised - you have taken four months and a long vacation before this very urgent motion of censure to save Spain on the basis of insults and threats. And look, this week is nine years after the end of ETA, with a socialist government at the forefront. We were the democrats who ended terrorism, and you, Mr Abascal, use the victims trying to associate their name with your miserable Franco project. [[Applauds]] That's the problem of closed minds, who usually have their mouths open: either they're insulting or they're yawning. They have waited at the right time to make this seat of national sovereignty the decoration of the first campaign act of their candidate for the Catalan elections, Mr Garriga, and have decided to turn this House, this House of the Word, into a circus of noise, hatred and fury. Do not count on me in your strategy to gain relevance by filling this Chamber with misery and mud. Mr. Married, the best defense is a good attack, and today you have shown it here. I congratulate you on this; you have made a good attack. [[Applauds]] But I'm also telling you that there's a theater set up. [[Rumors]] He has devoted much of his speech to blaming the voting division for VOX. What really bothers you is that VOX has taken away votes from you, not anything else. What I was demanding of VOX, during that intervention so hard or seemingly so hard, was the regrouping of the right; nothing else. You haven't done anything else. You have come to say in your speech that there are more than 200 extremist Members in this House, more than 200 extremist Members. And of course, I have started to think and I have realized: it is the 208 Members who on Tuesday supported opening the door to the General Budgets of the State, you referred to those Members. [[Applauds]] I believe that, if you were to catch up, as all parties are doing, you, Mr Casado, would have defended democracy against extremism, and you have not, you have only claimed hegemonic power on the right. In addition, it has chosen, taking advantage of that debate as well, to attack the democratic Government of Spain. I just hope that all those who talk about chryspation and polarization, as if it were a matter of all the parties, have listened and have taken note of these two days of debate. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not gonna follow the VOX game. I'm not going to participate in your show or help you gain space. I would like, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to take this time to address each of my colleagues in all the democratic parties in this House, because we need to talk, because it is urgent that we talk about the challenge of the extreme right to democracy, and yesterday and today they are further proof of that. Ladies and gentlemen, the party I belong to has a long history and all this time we have learned that the enemies of democracy use many lies. They speak of freedom as they chain us up; they speak of justice as they trample on rights; they speak of homeland as they divide, face and exclude; they speak of the future, but they only sow fear, and precisely that, fear, is the opposite of any form of freedom and all progress, because a heart full of fear is empty of hope and nothing can be built without it. Jorge Guillén said, and he was right, that when hope is lost one becomes reactionary. Today the party of fear has returned to Europe and also to Spain; they sow fear because fear paralyzes and they want us to be quiet, because fear silences and they want us to be quiet, because fear fuels hatred and they want us to be divided and faced: some territories against others, some communities against others, and some citizens against others. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not afraid for Spanish democracy. I believe that this far right is the last breath of a fascist ideology condemned already to the margins of history. For forty years they had all the power and used all the power to try to make the desire for freedom of the soul of the Spaniards disappear, but as soon as an urn was put, the Spaniards decided that it was they who had to disappear. They failed after forty years with all the power, and they will fail again now that they only have the power that others want to give them by opening the doors of the institutions. [[Applauds]] That is why I am not afraid for democracy, but I am concerned about the fear that you, Mr Married, have to the extreme right because there you can do harm, there you can do harm. It is true that fear can drag you to any extreme and you are leading to an extremism that we never thought we would see again on the Spanish right, because of them no one expects more than they are doing: divide, face and spread hatred. But to you people listen as a serious politician of a government party, Mr. Married, and we have a problem if you are dedicated to extending your program and sowing what they harvest because, even if you come here today very angry, to simulate distancing, you without VOX is nothing, Mr. Married. Are you going to break up in Madrid, Andalusia and Murcia? [[Applauds]] Today they argue, but you sow what VOX harvests. And, look, every time, Mr. Married, you say that this is a fraudulent government, you're sowing what VOX harvests. Every time he accuses this government of totalitarianism, he is sowing what he harvests VOX. Every time he opens the door of an institution or assumes one of its proposals, he is whitening to the far right. A few weeks ago they threatened the Constitutional Court, a few days ago they removed the names of two socialists from the street of Madrid, they destroy statues of social justice defenders and victims of Nazism by hammering, so how far are you going to follow them, Mr. Casado? It seems that, as I told you before, hegemony is disputed in the political space of the right today, as we have seen, in a discarnate manner, with fury, with fury, as you all do, but I am afraid that you share the fundamental, Mr. Married: the will to crouch, face and divide when we most need unity and responsibility. Your burning land policy with the government has a price that we all pay, Mr. Casado, and that only benefits the far right, only benefits them. That is why I ask you to stop holding the speaker on the far right, because not everything is worth attacking the Government. From a politician it is expected that his level of responsibility is always above his fears, Mr. Married. Look, we are celebrating your no of today to the motion of censure, but if you don't want us to interpret this vote as a simple opportunistic and short-term gesture to put a distance between the failure of the motion, if you want your disregard for the far right to be credible, you have to go further, Mr. Casado, you have to break with the ultras where they do more damage every day in the governments of Madrid, Andalusia and Murcia. [[Applauds]] You have to do the same thing that Mrs Merkel and Mr Macron, the democratic right in Europe, are doing: facing up to and not contemporating with fascism. Will you? Are you going to break the ideology of hate? Or will they continue to rule by the hand of fascism tomorrow? [[Rumors]] Shake, Mr. Married, the fear of the far right, lift your head and plant face to those who want to end our democracy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the time to fear, it is the time to understand and understand. Not only are we in an era of change, but we are facing a change of age and the course we take depends on us. I know that there are many people who criticise the discussion, sometimes vehemently, in this House, but I do not share that view. I think this is the place to confront arguments and projects, I think this is the place where we have to expose the alternatives, this is the place where we express our differences, and it is important that this be so, because this is also the place to negotiate, agree and agree on those differences. That is the raison d'être of parliamentarianism and that is why I believe that you and I, Mr Casado and Mrs Gamarra, you and we have to keep talking all the time, and we have to keep talking to Mr Iglesias, Mr Esteban, Mr Baldoví, Mr Errejón, Mr Rufián and each of the Democratic Members of this House. We have to keep talking not despite our differences, but precisely because of our differences, because we live together and we will continue to do so, we will continue to live together. And the problem, listen to me well, Mr. Casado, is not that we talk to each other, the real problem will be if we stop talking, because if we stop talking, as Mr. Abascal wants and as you seem to defend irresponsibly veto after veto, block after blockade, if we stop talking, Mr. Casado, what remains? You know as well as I do and everyone who is listening to these words. Politics cannot be just confrontation and blockade. That's why I'm telling you once again that you're wrong about your gates, your vetoes and your refusals to engage in dialogue. He is mistaken if he believes that this strategy of confrontation at any price, of being hard with the government even at the expense of Spain, is the way to get rid of the extreme right. We're seeing it. They have been wrong in this strategy for years and it is no coincidence that the famous rift returns to Spain every time you leave the government. The problem is not that you don't understand what they do, it's that you understand too well, because they've been doing it for decades. There was a rift - and for what Mr Anson said something more serious - in the last few years of the government of Felipe González. Crisparon and strained to the unbearable to try to wear down Zapatero's government, and the rift returns now that Pedro Sánchez governs. Every time you leave the government, the rift enters through the door of Genoa and the responsibility leaps out of the window. [[Applauds]] It is neither a coincidence nor a mistake, it is a strategy that you have been cultivating for years to wear down the government, even though the institutions are the ones that end up paying for broken dishes. If we have this problem with the far right today, it is to a large extent because of that disastrous strategy. I'll explain it to you clearly. Those years ago who believed you with their 'Spain breaks', today vote for VOX; those who believed you in that delusion linking the Socialist Party with the 11-M terrorists, today vote for VOX; those who believed you when they accused Rubalcaba of creating a political police, today vote for VOX; those who believed you when they said that the socialists were going to end the Spanish families, today vote for VOX; those who believed you when they said that we were kneeling before independence, today vote for VOX, and those who believe you today, Mr. Casado, when they say that we live in a totalitarian regime that wants to destroy Spain, tomorrow will vote for VOX. That's the problem they have. [[Applauds]] Correct, Mr. Married, because you're completely wrong. Nor despise what this motion of censure means, do not despise your rival on the far right, and this is for all of us. Let us not ignore the real threat that the extreme right poses to democracy in Europe and Spain. Take it seriously and correct it, because it is not true that Spanish society, that Spanish citizens live in a crisp. That's what some are trying to move. Thousands of mayors and councillors from all over Spain work every day from responsibility and democratic normality. The vast majority of the presidents of the autonomous communities work every day from loyalty and institutional cooperation. We are moving forward, the president explained yesterday, along with the social actors and from social dialogue more than in many years, and I want to thank them all. That is the Spain of every day, which faces problems with effort, loyalty, word, much dialogue and full responsibility. And noise, as in this House, always comes from the same side. Only you, Mr. Married, you, Mrs. Ayuso and the far right, who are always dragging you further and further, are heard. You've been feeding a monster you don't think much of for years, and it's turned into your nightmare and a problem for everyone. The surprising thing is that, far from learning, you continue to repeat the same mistakes, and you come even beyond those who preceded you. Human beings are symbolic beings, and gestures are important to people. We exalt that which we believe in and that which we recognize. Look, Álvarez del Manzano was mayor of Madrid with an absolute majority. Alberto Ruiz-Gallardón and Ana Botella were, and they were not good years for this city. But none of them thought of attacking the memory of political leaders who fought the dictatorship for decades. And now comes VOX and in a close and open eye it drags all of you, Almeida, Ayuso, Villacis and Aguado, where we never think we would see to the right again, and this is the example of what you are doing little by little. [[Applauds]] Little by little they are dragging them; and that, Mr. Married, your fear of an extreme right that is dragging them further and further, that we do worry all democrats, because they only have the space you leave them. Listen less to the leaders of VOX and listen a little more to the leaders of your party, who ask you to plant face to the extreme right, who ask you again and again for moderation. Ladies and gentlemen, the ultra-right feeds on the fear and the inability or lack of will of the majority right to plant its face, but it also feeds on the anxiety and anguish of an era of profound difficulties and changes such as the one we live in. For months we have said that the epidemic does not distinguish between one another, and today we know that it is not true; that it affects more those living on smaller floors, those who have to travel every day overcrowded in subway cars; those who, even, do not dare to become a PCR for fear of losing their jobs. And on that bottom of anguish he also tries to cast poisonous roots on the far right; and there we must fight it all. We must do so by preventing them from deceiving workers who suffer the most from the anguish of the crisis. Everyone, especially the workers, should know that we are talking about a party that has put at the head of its union a leader denounced for attacking trade union freedom, which has torn up trade union posters in the Andalusian Parliament and says that the rich are by nature. Are the poor by nature too? If you're born poor, should you still be poor? Is that the society you want? [[Applauds]] A party that wanted to abolish the inheritance tax that only benefits the great fortunes, and whose economic guru defends that health and education are private, for which they can be paid; a party that did not even deign to participate in the Reconstruction Commission and voted against protecting the workers and the self-employed; that calls chiringuito to any policy of protection of women or workers, but with a leader who filled his pockets with hundreds of thousands of euros of a chiringuito mounted by Esperanza Aguirre for their benefit. That's what we're talking about. [[Applauds]] So let no one be deceived; the far right has not come to protect any worker; it has come to crush them. They have voted against the ERTEs, which have protected the employment of thousands of workers during the pandemic. They voted against extending the unemployment benefit for workers who were dismissed during the probationary period. They voted against regulating telework. They voted against ICO loans. They voted against the retrievable paid leave. You have not come to defend the rights of the workers; you have come to destroy them, that is what you have come to. [[Applauds]] It is also easy to understand their hatred of those who dedicated their lives to improving the lives of workers. There was one person who highlighted among many others in the defence of workers, who participated in the creation of the International Labour Organization, which laid the foundations of Spanish labour law, which established maternity insurance, accident insurance, the eight-hour day, the right to strike, the negotiation of collective agreements, which extended compulsory retirement insurance; his name was Francisco Largo Caballero. [[Applauds]] He dedicated his life to protecting workers and expanding rights. Those of you who venerate dressed him in rags, locked him up in a Nazi concentration camp and tried to turn him into a number that he recorded on his clothes. But today we are millions of grateful Spaniards who claim that memory of freedom, which you, with the support of the People's Party and Citizens, are trying to erase from our history. Gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of Citizens, between the extreme right and a victim of Nazism locked in a concentration camp, you have voted to destroy the memory of the second to hammer. [[Applauds]] And then I have to listen to you come out here, in your last speech, to talk about reconciliation; you, who do not respect nor what your predecessors did at the Madrid City Hall, you who do not respect the democratic transition in this country. [[Applauds]] What you have done is called whitewashing fascism, and that would embarrass any Democrat. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to reveal the lies of the far right, we have to combat the anguish they seek to exploit, so the way out of this crisis must not only be health, it must also be social. That is why the Government is committed to bringing forward a social shield that leaves no one behind, and that serves as a safeguard and protection of our freedoms. A more dignified minimum wage makes us more free, minimum living income makes us more free, ensuring workers' rights makes us more free, education and public health make us more free. Social justice must not be just one of our principles, it must be the end and the goal of any democratic government at this uncertain time. We need social budgets with social policies, more and better public health, more research and science, more and better public education, more and better protection of workers' rights, more and better protection of the self-employed, more and better opportunities for young people, more and better protection of pensioners, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not about choosing between freedom and equality - it has never been about that - it is about us all being equally free; it is equally free. Ladies and gentlemen, some parties in this House are more recent and others have a long history; a different story for each of us, no doubt, because we each come to this House on our own path. But in all those stories that we remember and that we will repeat to the younger generations there is a space for those who defended democracy against tyranny, for those who raised a free country, for those who refused exclusion and rejected intolerance. I was beginning this intervention by saying that there are differences between us, that of many parties that separate me almost everything, but today the important thing is that 'almost', because that is where we democrats are, because in that little 'almost', which sometimes in the day-to-day parliamentary seems to be reduced to a little bit, there is room for all those who believe in freedom, justice and democracy. One day they will be amazed that we will arrive - wrote Maria Teresa León - one day they will be amazed that we will return with our ideas as high as palms for the Sunday of the joyful branches. We, those of lost paradise, will arrive, return with the law and teach you the buried words. Let us always seek the words, ladies and gentlemen, let us work from the floor, let us defend that which, in the face of intolerance and extremism, unites us with all the free men and women of this House and of all Spain: freedom and the word. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u72	Mr. Casado, I congratulate you on the many applause you have received today, intense from your bench, also from the Government, from Mrs. Lastra, from the PSOE, from Pablo Iglesias, from Mr. Gabriel Rufián as well; it reminded me of that famous phrase by Jardiel Poncela: If you want the greatest praises, die. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to the ladies and gentlemen who yesterday signed an anti-VOX anti-democratic pact, together with ETA - you have decided on the continuity of the government of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias, you have decided on the continuity of the government of ruin and the death of many Spaniards, and you have decided almost at the same time that you decided to raise your salary, although you had to back off against the complaint made by VOX and the social scandal that arose. [[Applauds]] I am afraid you do not really have any idea of the disaster, of the misery that awaits us, which awaits a great many of our compatriots, and for this you will be responsible, those who yesterday signed this pact to support this Government with their votes and words. [[shows a document]] This is the consensus progress to which we refer, this is the dictatorship progress that you want to impose, and with which you have intended to gag half of the Spaniards. They did not have VOX, and some of you here have wanted to describe it as the originators of ideologies, of principles, of values that die, and you are far from reality. We have seen it throughout the debate: slogans, disqualifications, hatred, political violence, false news against VOX; and we have seen the union of PSOE and Bildu: you have portrayed yourselves again, showing who your allies are in this motion of censure. [[Applauds]] From now on, VOX will continue to demand free elections on the street that will allow the Spaniards to choose between the continuity of the ruin you represent or a patriotic and social alternative for all Spaniards; free elections that are not hidden from us will be increasingly difficult to achieve, given the attempt of the government parties to colonize all the institutions of the State, but free elections for which we will fight with all our forces, ladies and gentlemen. We are not going to stand idly by while a mafia, a mafia coalition threatens the lives, prosperity, unity and freedom of the Spaniards. They will have us in front, ladies and gentlemen, and they will have more and more Spaniards in front of us. Unfortunately, and I think this also you know, for a time everything will go to worse: more people will die, more businesses will close, unemployment will go up, you will restrict more freedoms, we will be subjected to creditors and other powers, the invasion from North Africa will continue and the neighborhoods will become even more insecure. The Government will try to camouflage this disaster by coercing, bribing the media, and will even bring out, as it makes victimism, its subsidized militias on the street to scare the opposition and to attack the public acts of other parties. Very hard times come for the Spaniards and also for the VOX bench. You have threatened us directly during these days, but Spain will overcome it and VOX too, despite you; Spain will go ahead, and also - I will say - despite all of us. But I see in the young Spaniards a force that is far superior to that of political intrigues or the immense power that they still believe they have the oligarchs to which some of you owe. They've all come together today to beat VOX. It hasn't been the first time and we know it won't be the last, ladies and gentlemen. But don't celebrate it very much, because very soon you will be fighting for the spoils of the power you now enjoy. Today you had to choose between hope and ruin and you have chosen ruin. But they will not be able to overcome the hope that will grow day by day in every corner, in every town and in every city of our homeland. Spain will prevail, despite you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u73	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u74	The truth is that we Members of this House are already used to being pointed out and facing all kinds of threats. We began by living it in the investiture debate, when Members of the Socialist Party, the United Podemos and other groups who supported the investiture, especially Mr Guitarte, who had to have police protection were threatened. We live it every day on social media or sometimes when we go out on the streets by people on the far right. And look, Mr. Abascal, almost every day the houses of the people, the socialist headquarters, suffer attacks, destruction and painting. Almost every day representatives of my party and other democratic parties have to endure insults, harassment and threats, even from their own ranks and from their own social networks as a political party. A few hours ago the House of the Village of Burgos appeared full of symbols of extreme right, threats and painted. In one of them you could even read: 'Jews, out'. Your words, Mr Abascal, generate hatred and I hold you responsible for each of these acts, violence and threats. [[Applauds]] And I'll tell you more, I'll tell you that everything you and your followers do has an effect, but it's not what you want. With each of those hate words that you say, our resolve grows; with every insult, our union grows; with every threat, our determination to plant face to its extremism grows. Mr. Abascal, the tyrant, his forty years of dictatorship and all his prisons couldn't bend us and you won't get it. [[Applauds]] Today, as yesterday, he came to this House to flood it with that hatred, with those insults and threats with which he wants to poison our society. Little more can be asked of you and nothing more are expected of you, but look at this House and look at it well, you are alone. You only have the loopholes that leave you a wrong right, in exchange for your votes, and I continue to trust, Mr. Married, that even you will rectify. Look closely, Mr Abascal, because here there is a wall of hundreds of Members telling them that they are not going to pass, and on the street there are millions of citizens telling them that in this country we do not want their hatred or their confrontation. Mr Abascal, today we are voting on this motion of censure. This afternoon Pedro Sánchez will remain president, and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and the next week and the next, and the next month and the next, and the next year and the next. [[Applauds]] Mr. Married, here you have your partners, your fellow travellers. He spoke in his intervention of respect for the institutions, the Constitution, patriotism.... Today all the international institutions, the International Monetary Fund, the OECD, the World Bank, the European Commission - all of them unsuspecting of communism, will agree with me - are calling for a fairer distribution of wealth. In the meantime, you not only refuse to sit down and talk about the budgets with the government, but you are going to Brussels to try to make sure that the 72 billion of the recovery plan does not reach Spain. Is that what you call defending Spain and the Spanish? That? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] A few months ago they sent a report to Brussels, raising doubts about our country. While the President of the Government was negotiating the most important economic agreement in the history of the European Union, you were trying to question us every time they put a microphone in front of you. [[Rumors.-Mr. White Married makes affirmative gestures with his head]] Yeah, yeah, I know. Thank you for recognizing it because there was some partner around here yelling at me: lying! Crying, insulting, and so on is quite common. [[Applauds]] What I'm asking you to do is learn a little bit of respect from the left of the House. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] A few days ago he met the foreign ambassadors to tell them that the government is not reliable and shortly afterwards you went to Brussels to try to make sure that the European funds do not reach Spain. It's letting Spain fall forever, so old, so PP. Isn't that right, Mr. Married? Reaching the government even if it has to sink the Spaniards can be called in many ways, but none of them is patriotism. Mr Casado, you said that this is a disloyal government that lies and manipulates. What I want to ask you, Mr. Married, is what you call manipulating and filtering National Security documents. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u76	Because we are talking about something very serious, leaking false documents to which you had access for the office you hold and which affect national security. Mr. Married, that can also be called in many ways, but none of them is patriotism. [[Applauds]] It has become very clear that you do not want to know anything about this Government and that you are willing to do anything to bring it down. Besides, it's evidence every time you go up to this rostrum or put a microphone in front of you. As I was telling you, he even questions national security or tries to make Spain lose the funds it needs to cope with the worst crisis in our recent history. We will continue to reach out to them, we will continue to wait and ask for responsibility for a party that is supposed to be a government like yours, Mr Casado, and we will also continue to seek agreement with the parliamentary groups, because it is also our duty. Ladies and gentlemen, the extreme right has challenged democracy today and has not gone well. Many speakers have said that these two meetings were of no use. Man, I think it's worth it to make them work for something, and besides, it's just up to us. During these two days almost all the parties have been able to understand us in something essential, in the defense of freedom. I believe that if we have been able to understand ourselves two days, we can understand ourselves two weeks, two months or two years and more in that, essentially. We have differences, yes, but I am sure that we can understand that no older person should be afraid for his pension, no worker should have to choose between having rights or having work, no young person should have to choose between a precarious future or emigrate. We have differences, of course, but we can agree that we need to turn recognition of our health care providers into stability, that a better Spain is possible in a better Europe to contribute to a better world and a better future. I believe in politics, and I am sure that we cannot give up all of that without ceasing to be what we are: free representatives of free parties in a country that is and will continue to be the country of the free word. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u78	I was addressing your ladies and gentlemen earlier, but I would not wish to stop addressing the Spaniards. Although some of you have been able to fall into despair and despair today, you must know that you are not alone, that you are increasingly the millions of people who are committed to the national unity that you are attacking by pacting with the separatists; that you are increasingly the millions of people who are committed to the validity of the Constitution and to the defence of the rule of law and the separation of powers that you are attacking; that you are increasingly the Spaniards who are committed to the freedom that you are attacking with totalitarian laws such as gender or historical memory; that you are increasingly the Spaniards who are sick of the lies that you have perpetrated against VOX today and against millions of them from this rostrum with all sorts of stigmatizations. You can be sure they'll still be represented. What we have seen today, in any case, already illuminates the possibility of suspicious pacts being made so that the parties can continue to get their hands on justice. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u79	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Government has asked for the floor. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. candidate, at this point I think it has become clear to me that you do not have any support because you do not have any kind of project for our country, more than that of throwing at those citizens who do not commune with their beliefs and feelings. He knows what to do with the nationalists, made it clear yesterday and has made it clear today: ban them. He knows what to do with the communists: decimate them. He knows what to do with the socialists: throw us out, throw us out. He knows what to do also with the followers of other political parties on the right: attract them, absorb them and convert them to their creed. And let us no longer talk about the fate of feminists, ecologists, homosexuals, immigrants, Masons and other groups who turn away from their values and who do not fit in with their plans, from these already better or we speak, Mr Abascal. You know what to do with Spaniards who don't think and feel like you, which is to force them to think and to feel like you, or else not, to ban them. However, the problem is that it has not even the most remote idea of what to do with Spain. To begin with, for example, you do not know what to do with the second wave of the pandemic - a subject that is absent from both you and Mr Casado's debate this morning - which is disturbing and is hitting Spain and also the whole of the European Union. You have not given a single idea, ladies and gentlemen, of how to strengthen the health system, not a single idea of how to restructure and reform the care system of our elders, not a single idea of how to combat the spread of the virus, except its famous slogan of freedom in Núñez de Balboa. But there is the circumstance, Mr. candidate, that the virus is transmitted between people, that it does not travel alone, and to limit the contagions we have to reduce the mobility, we have to reduce the contacts between people, because to greater mobility and greater contact, there is greater contagion. However, you want full mobility and contact without limit, and that means unbrained contagions. Mr. candidate, you do not have a plan - I will no longer say sensible or half sensible - for recovery, for job creation, for the digital transformation of our country. Its only economic policy was made clear yesterday in the debates and this morning also: regulating the productive sectors and returning to a certain economic and energy autarchy in a globalised world. That is, his plan is like that of eighty years ago: to isolate ourselves and to remain at the mercy of the markets. Therefore, it does not have a plan for employment, nor for digital transition, nor for energy transition, nor for climate change - it is more, it denies it and it does it without any kind of blush, nor of modesty -. It should be remembered that you tabled an amendment to the entire preliminary draft law that this government introduced on climate change and disqualified it as a scam and as a climate camel. You then refer to the young people, who fortunately have internalized the fight against climate change and that the opportunities that this fight against climate change can generate are fundamental not only for today, but also for the tomorrow that they will have. You do not have a plan for territorial tensions, except - it has become clear - to suppress the autonomous state, and therefore to violate Title VIII of the Constitution and restore the centralist state from when you already know, eighty years ago. It does not have a plan to combat inequality, except to encourage it through a fiscal counter-reform that would reduce tax revenues and thus make poverty and inequality spread throughout our country. It does not have a plan to achieve gender equality, nor to combat gender-based violence, except to repeal the Equality Act and the Gender Violence Act. But the same is true of vocational training, education, except for the parental pin, which we have forgotten, but which was one of the elements of debate at the beginning of the legislature. As far as Europe is concerned, it is better to suspend the Schengen area. As for health, unless you ban abortion or eliminate public health, you have nothing else to offer. In order to strengthen our Constitution, all it offers is to abolish the Constitutional Court. Anyway, you, Mr. candidate, are going to be defeated in a few minutes, and that's going to be a relief to all of us and all of us. [[Applauds]] Moreover, Mr. candidate, if I may say so, I believe that it will even be a relief to yourself. [[Laughter and applause]] You, Mr. candidate, have brought no reason, you have been certified; you have not brought a project, you have been found; you have brought nothing to Spain, except excessive exaltation and ill-contained anger. It's time for the truth. You dizzyed the loss for months - here have been said by other interveners - in the summer months, insinuating that you would present another candidate, I suppose to avoid this trance that you have spent during these long hours of motion of censure. They even suggested figures from other political parties. Then they crossed the names of independents. In the end, it seems that in the absence of any volunteer, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the current candidate, Mr Abascal, had to present himself. In recent weeks, the trick has changed - we have heard you and your media spokesperson say this - and they are slipping the idea that there are other parliamentary groups or, at least, significant Members of Parliament from other groups, who could support them in this vote. Anyway, I don't know if anyone will bite, Mr. Candidate, but, beyond any anecdote, the raw and clamorous reality is that you, you, are alone. Even if you look like this, you are not Blas de Lezo on the Cartagena de Indias site, nor Hernán Cortés on Aztec soil surrounded by enemies. You, Mr. candidate - I'm sorry to tell you - are not the savior of Spain. [[Applauds]] You are someone who one day in July felt that Spain was at risk of disappearance and what he did was go to a bank to sign a mortgage for thirty years to buy a chalet, and at two days he filed a motion of censure to save Spain. He then returned to enjoy the vest for a few months, until he formally presented the motion of censure to the Congress of Deputies. In the meantime, your minions are dedicated to bittering the lives of two members of the Government and their children, because it is bad for you to have a cottage. [[Applauds]] I do not ask you, Mr. candidate, to reproduce the deeds of Elcano, to enter through the Cape of Good Hope, but at least it could pass through the register, which is next door, and register the property, which is what we all Members of Parliament have to do, precisely because it is mandated by law. [[Applauds]] You are not the savior of Spain, fortunately for Spain, because Spain already has millions of saviors and saviors, while you have been beating each other's chests and screaming here throughout these long hours of motion of censure, which have been saving that Spain for months from hospitals, from schools, from supermarkets, from police stations, from barracks, from the factories of all parts of our country. You, Mr. candidate, are alone and you will say that you are proudly alone, and I grant you that, because pride is what you have left and modesty is what you lack. [[Applauds]] But to your right and to your left is raised the reality of Spain, not that of Lepanto nor that of the Third of Flanders, the present Spain, the real Spain that we have claimed from the government and also from the parliamentary groups, which have told you: no. There is no other, except in your heated imagination, if I may say so. It is Spain that is represented here, with the three hundred and fifty Members who are following this debate today and who will give their verdict in a few minutes with their vote. It is Spain that is in favour of moving forward, Mr. candidate; it is in favour of overcoming the ubiquitous challenge of a pandemic that is devastating the world, which has caused a health emergency and also an economic and social emergency, which has certainly not counted on its vote precisely to protect neither the health care workers, nor the workers, nor the employers, nor the self-employed, nor the Armed Forces, nor the State security forces and a long and long etc. To that Spain I am speaking, of course, to the whole House, to each of the Spanish and Spanish who are represented here with their vote because I know that the vast majority, from often very different positions, agree on the basic ideas that must inspire, unless in the opinion of the Government, our country and its future: a Spain presided over by democracy, freedom and dialogue; a Spain with public services - after this pandemic, I believe that we will have to demand them in a much stronger way - of quality and social protection that fights against inequality, as well as a Europe that is much more humanistic than we had in the past; the fight for equality between men and women, the law of the rule of law, decent employment and solvent companies. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not agree on everything, so there are different parties that interpret reality from different perspectives, but it is a lot, more than enough, to cement coexistence. That is Spain that we have been building for over forty years now, thanks to our Constitution and to that country I would like to address. I am addressing him because I know perfectly well that none of the people gathered here, with the exception of the candidate and his own, wants to go anywhere else, much less citizenship; not even his voters, Mr. candidate, want to go to the place you point out to them. Spain, like the whole of Europe, is entering a second wave of the pandemic and we therefore need to respond together; we need, above all, strong and legitimate institutions. That is why I am calling on the whole House right now, and in particular on the party that is blocking the renewal of those constitutional institutions. [[Rumors]] I said this in the debate I had with the candidate: this motion is the least constructive parliamentary initiative we could imagine, it is an expression of destructive anger. We have seen it here and even I believe that the People's Parliamentary Group has rightly been able to reveal it in the speech of its spokesman. However, we can all reverse your sign, Mr Casado, and we can turn it into an opportunity to build, we can turn it into a constructive motion, as I said in my first intervention, very much in spite of your proponents. Mr Casado, let us renew the judiciary, let us renew the Ombudsman, let us renew the Constitutional Court. We need understanding, we need dialogue, of course we do. We have been proposing for two years - I myself have been proposing it as President of the Government - that we renew the General Council of the Judiciary, the Constitutional Court and the Ombudsman. [[Applauds]] But look, Mr. Married, as every effort in favor of understanding is little, today from this rostrum, I take one more step. [[Rumors]] I announce that for our part we will stop the clock of the reform of the General Council of the Judiciary in order to reach an agreement with you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of whom have stood up, addressed to Mr Abascal Conde]] We need to get started as soon as possible. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u81	Wait a minute, President. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u82	As soon as this vote concludes, those parties that have State responsibility - and I have no doubt that the People's Party has State responsibility - let us sit down and renew the constitutional bodies for the benefit of our Constitution, for the benefit of our democracy and for the benefit of the citizenship represented here. We will stop the clock of that reform of the General Council of the Judiciary pending you sit down and, after two long years, come to unlock the renewal of the government of the judges. [[Applauds]] In addition to renewing and strengthening our institutions, we have other major transformations that challenge the whole House, or at least the majority of the House as a whole: the ecological transition, without a doubt, as a source of well-being, prosperity, job creation and enterprise, of the future and of intergenerational solidarity; the digitisation of the economy; education; vocational training; science; the Toledo Pact; the labour market; social cohesion; equality between men and women. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Spain does not want to go back, does not accept to go back and whenever it has been subjected to this kind of crossroads, it has decided to look forward. It is a country that does not need a savior, because fortunately it has millions and millions of saviors in each and every one of its citizens. Now, it remains that the legitimate representatives of the Spanish and Spanish vote, we vote. Through them, the citizens of our country will be re-voted. Let Spain speak, let them decide again which Government they want and which Government they want. The last word, Mr. candidate, gentlemen of the far right, fortunately, is democracy. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u84	I'm not getting that long, Mr. Sánchez, unless you want to get back to the Television, which maybe was your only intention. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, makes negative signs]] However, we have come to think that you came here to pray the Angelus, but nothing. [[Laughter]] What we have understood after your speech, and what you have announced, is the meaning of Mr Casado's speech. Mr Casado has had to seriously insult us, our voters and some of his people; he has had to say things here that we never expected to be said from that bench in order to be able to negotiate the division of judges with you. [[Applauds]] And yes, it is true that we will be alone in this House, Mr Sánchez. But it is better to be alone, than as badly accompanied as you are; better alone, than so badly accompanied by those gentlemen up there He says I repeat the argument, but I will repeat it while in this Parliament and you will have to listen to it, because that argument is absolutely true and it is before which you have no chance of defending: your pact with Bildu and with ETA, Mr Sánchez. [[applause]] [[pointing to the seats of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group]] [[Applauds]] He has come out again to the rostrum, taking advantage of the announcement he wanted to make, to vomit falsehoods about VOX, which will repeat all his media lackeys, we are sure and we don't care, we are quite used to it. Yeah, give it to Franco, because that's his only argument. You have gone from desecrator to necrophile, you without Franco are nothing, Mr. Sánchez. [[Applauds]] But I have to tell you something else. You contribute to lowering the level of parliamentary debate. Mr Sánchez, your speech has been - I am not going to define it as it should be - pitiful and full of lies. What has become clear today, above all, beyond his intervention, is what the positions of this Government are and what their partners are. You have come here to say that VOX has not proposed an alternative government, when we have done so in economic, industrial, agricultural, tax, constitutional reform, migration policy and public sector reform. You have come to say that we have not said anything about health policies, when we have done so even before you and we have continued to do so, proposing border controls - which you have not wanted to accept -, frequent massive tests, individual location, selective and non-total closures and state-funded masks. Because there are many Spaniards who have to choose between masks and milk, and you know it, Mr Sánchez, and you have not wanted to finance masks. [[Applauds]] And in the face of that, what do you propose to us? Again the curfew and imprisonment of millions of people to further ruin the Spaniards. I'm done. Tell me one Government that has done it worse than you, with greater confinements, with more deaths per inhabitant, with greater ruin, with greater economic decline. Just tell us one, Mr. Sanchez. And explain also, because he has not done so, why he lied to the Spaniards saying that he would not deal with them, with them and with them, and he agreed with all of them. You haven't explained it yet in this rostrum. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u85	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, after the debate, we shall be voting in five minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion of censure tabled by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde and another fifty-one Members. As set out in the Rules of Procedure of the House in Rule 85.2, the vote shall be made public by appeal. Your ladies and gentlemen will answer yes, no or abstention, from your seat, when they are called by the secretaries, who will read the names from the speaker's rostrum. I ask you to answer the appeal with a clear and audible voice, although the secretaries who call them will repeat the meaning of the vote in order to avoid difficulties. The appeal is made in alphabetical order, but beginning with the first name of the honourable Member whose name has been drawn by lot and who was José María Sánchez García. [[Applauds]] The Government and the Bureau shall vote at the end. I ask the Secretary to begin the vote first. The first, second, third and fourth secretaries of the Bureau are calling on the ladies and gentlemen, who are expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'yes': Sánchez García, José María. Steegmann Olmedillas, Juan Luis. Toscano de Balbín, Carla. Trias Gil, Georgina. Utrilla Cano, Julio. Vega Arias, Ruben Darío. Abascal Conde, Santiago. Aizcorbe Torra, Juan José. Alcaraz Martos, Francisco José. Take Cuevas, Alberto. You erase Pabon, Mireia. Calvo Listo, Pablo Juan. Cañizares Pacheco, Inés María. Chamorro Delmo, Ricardo. Contraras Peláez, Francisco José. Of the Fernández Heroes, Patricia. From Meer Méndez, Rocío. From the Rodriguez Valley, Emilio Jesús. Spiny of the Mounts of Simon, Ivan. Esteban Calonje, Cristina Alicia. Fernández Hernández, Pedro. Fernández Ríos, Tomas. Fernández-Lomana Gutiérrez, Rafael. Fernández-Roca Suárez, Carlos Hugo. Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, José María. Garriga Vaz de Concicao, Ignacio. González Coello de Portugal, Víctor. Jiménez Revuelta, Rodrigo. Handsome Olivar, Rubén Silvano. Marshal Zabala, Manuel. Mendez Monastery, Lourdes. Master Barea, Manuel. Snow of the Field, Maria Magdalena. Olona Choclán, Macarena. Ortega Smith-Molina, Francisco Javier. Ramirez del Río, José. Quejo Novoa, Pedro Jesús. Robles López, Joaquin. Rodriguez Almeida, Andrés Alberto. Romero Vilches, Mary of the Kings. Rosety Fernández de Castro, Agustín. Wheel Perello, Patricia. Ruiz Navarro, Eduardo Luis. Sáez Alonso-Muñumer, Pablo. Salvá Verd, Antonio. Sánchez del Real, Victor Manuel. Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'no': Santamaría Ruiz, Luis. Santiago Romero, Enrique Fernando. Paths Oraá, Daniel. Seva Ruiz, Yolanda. Sicilia Enferez, Felipe Jesús. Simancas Simancas, Rafael. Soler Mur, Alejandro. Soto Burillo, Juan Luis. Sumelzo Jordan, Susana. Take off Ochoa, Vicente. Vazquez tin, Uxia. Hate Bengoechea, Edurne. Valerio Cordero, Magdalena. Balañà Valley, Pilar. Velard Gomez, Martina. Vicente Viondi, Daniel. Villagrasa I want, Naomi. Zamarron Moreno, Agustín. Zaragoza Alonso, José. Alfonso Cendón, Javier. Anguita Pérez, Omar. Antón Cacho, Javier. Aragonese Mendiguchia, Carlos. Upstairs Maroto, Manuel. Asens Llodra, Jaume. Azorín Salar, Lazarus. Low Coll, Montserrat. Beltran Villalba, Ana Maria. Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio. Betoret Coll, Vincent. Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia. Borrego Cortés, Isabel María. Head Houses, Thomas. Canales Duque, Mariana de Gracia. Castro quarry, Zaida. Prison Roces, Maria Luisa. Carrillo de los Reyes, Beatriz Micaela. Dantas oak, Maria. Married White, Pablo. You marry Hontañón, Pedro. Castellón Rubio, Miguel Ángel. López Castle, Elena. Cerdán León, Santos. Four houses Asua, Juan. Delgado Arce, Celso Luis. Diouf Dioh, Luc Andre. Echaniz Salgado, José Ignacio. Echenique Robba, Pablo. Elorza González, Odón. Faneca López, Maria Luisa. Fernández Casaro, Ana Belén. Fernández Castañón, Sofia. Ferrer Treasure, Sonia. Franco Carmona, Isabel. Sources Curbelo, Juan Bernardo. Bugarín gago, Diego. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo, Concepción. Garcés Sanagustín, Mario. Garcia Adanero, Carlos. García Chavarría, Maria Montserrat. Garcia López, Maribel. García Puig, Maria del Mar. Gomez Hernández, Hector. Gomez-Reino Varela, Antonio. González Pérez, Ariagona. González Ramos, Manuel Gabriel. Granollers Cunillera, Inés. Lopez War, Sonia. Guijarro García, Txema. Gutiérrez Salinas, Indalecio. Herrero Bono, José Alberto. Hispan Churches of Ussel, Pablo. Hole Juliá, Bethlehem. Jover Díaz, Antonia. Lastra Fernández, Adriana. Loyal Fernández, Isaura. Lima Cid, Fuensanta. López Álvarez, Patxi. Lopez Cano, Ignacio. López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio. López Dominguez, Laura. Master Moliner, Roser. Marquez Guerrero, Maria. Martínez Ferro, María Valentina. Martínez Seijo, María Luz. I'll kill Sáez, Juan José. Medel Pérez, Rosa Maria. Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio. Merino Martínez, Javier. Mínguez García, Montse. Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra. Montesinos de Miguel, Macarena. Movellán Lombilla, Diego. Muñoz Dalda, Lucia. Nasarre Oliva, Begoña. Navarro López, Pedro. Nuet Pujals, Joan Josep. Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo de. Paniagua Nuñez, Miguel Ángel. Píriz Maya, Victor Valentín. Nieto's friend, Ana. Prohens Rigo, Margarita. Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin. Riolobos Regadera, Carmen. Rodriguez Salas, José Antonio. Romero Sánchez, Rosa Maria. Ros Martínez, Susana. Rosique and Saltor, Marta. Rufian Romero, Gabriel. Saavedra Muñoz, Marisa. Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'yes' telematically: Zambrano García-Raez, Carlos José. Gestoso de Miguel, Luis. López Álvarez, María Teresa. Lopez Maraver, Angel. Ruiz Solás, Mary of the Head. Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'no' telematically: Sánchez Jódar, Marisol. Sánchez Pérez, Caesar. Sancho Guard, Alfredo. Sancho Íñiguez, Herminio Rufino. Sarrià Morell, Vincent Manuel. Sayas López, Sergio. Close Parent, David. Serrano Martínez, Juan Francisco. Suárez Lamata, Eloy. Taibo Monelos, Diego. Telechea i Lozano, Carolina. Love Torrealday, Roberto. Vazquez Blanco, Ana Belén. I saw Cantenys, Mireia. Velasco Morillo, Elvira. Vera Ruíz-Herrera, Noelia. Vidal Sáez, Aina. Vilches Ruiz, Maria Luisa. Zurita Exposito, Ana Maria. You take Galindo, José Luis. Come on, Joseba Andoni. Aizpurua Arzallus, Mertxe. Almodóbar Barceló, Agustín. Alonso Pérez, José Angel. Alonso Suárez, Maria Olga. Alonso-Cuevillas and Sayrol, Jaume. Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos, Cayetana. Alvarez Fanjul, Beatriz. Andrés Añón, Carmen. Andrés Barea, Josefa. Angle Romero, Maria Teresa. Aranda Vargas, Francisco. Araujo Morales, Gemma. Garcia, Inés. French ball, Edmundo. Baldoví Roda, Joan. Bathrooms Ruiz, Carmen. Barandiaran Benito, Íñigo. Bass Corugeira, Javier. Nice Accensi, Ferran. Belarra Urteaga, Ione. Berja Vega, Laura. Boadella Esteve, Genís. You'll erase Castanyer, Laura. Botella Gómez, Ana Maria. Butran Pahissa, Albert. Bravo Barco, Eva. Well Campanario, Eva Patricia. Knight Gutiérrez, Helena. Cano Streets, Juan Antonio. Cambronero Piqueras, Pablo. Cancel Rodriguez, Pilar. Cañadell Salvia, Concep. She's in charge of Esteve, Joan. Fucking beautiful, Eduardo. Casaro Ávila, Alberto. Cerqueiro González, Javier. Clavell López, Oscar. Courtesy Carballo, Mario. Courtesy of Gomez, Ishmael. Crespin Rubio, Rafaela. Cruz-Guzmán García, María Soledad. From Luna Tobarra, Llanos. From the Valley of Iscar, Julio. Diaz Gómez, Guillermo. Durán Peralta, José Carlos. Elorriaga Pisarik, Gabriel. Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier. Galvan error, ñigo. Spain Queen, Carolina. Mirror-Saavedra Conesa, José María. Esteban Bravo, Aitor. Fagundez Campo, Antidio. Fernández Benéitez, Andrea. Gamazo Micó, Oscar. Garcia Diez, Joaquín Maria. Garcia Aegean, Teodoro. García Gómez, Valentín. García Morís, Roberto. Garcia Rodriguez, Alicia. García-Pelayo Jurado, María José. Garrido Gutiérrez, Pilar. Gazquez Collado, Paloma. Giménez, Sara. González Caballero, Miguel Ángel. González Guinda, María del Carmen. González Terol, Antonio. Gonzalez Vázquez, Marta. Gorospe Elezcano, Josune. Guaita Steruelas, Sandra. Guijarro Ceballos, Maria. Guinart Moreno, Lydia. Gimeno guitar, Tomás. Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu, Fernando Adolfo. Gutiérrez Prieto, Sergio. Gutiérrez Vivas, Miguel Ángel. Honrubia Hurtado, Pedro Antonio. Hurtado Zurera, Antonio. Illamola Dausà, Mariona. Iñarritu García, Jon. Jerez Juan, Miguel Ángel. Jiménez Linuesa, Beatriz. Jiménez-Becerril Barrio, María Teresa. José Vélez, Rafael. Lamuà Estañol, Marc. Ledesma Martín, Sebastian Jesus. The Uriarte Guard, Mikel. Lopez Somoza, Gema. López Zamora, Cristina. Lorite Lorite, Andrés. Losada Fernández, José. Marcos Dominguez, Pilar. Marcos Ortega, Miracles. Margall Sastre, Joan. Marí Klose, Pau. Marshal Anaya, Guillermo. Marra Dominguez, Maria Ángeles. Martin Llaguno, Marta. Martínez Granados, María Carmen. Martínez Oblanca, Isidro Manuel. Mateu Istúriz, Jaime Miguel. Matute García de Jalón, Oskar. Mayor Perales, Rafael. Mazón Ramos, José María. Mena Arca, Joan. Miquel and Valenti, Sergi. Montesinos Aguayo, Pablo. Moraleja Gómez, Tristan Maria. I live Almaraz, Mary Jesus. Vidal Muñoz, Maria. Narváez Flag, Maria Dolores. Navalpotro Gómez, Julio. Navarro Lacoba, Carmen. Nugueras and Camero, Miriam. Oramas González-Moro, Ana María. Oria López, Mary Immaculate. Ortega Dominguez, José Ramón. Ortiz Galván, José. Padilla Ruiz, Esther. Stone Sainz, Raquel. Pedreño Molina, Juan Luis. Peña Waiter, Esther. Perea and Conillas, María Mercè. Pérez Abelás, Adolfo. Pérez Díaz, Maria Auxiliadora. Pita Cárdenes, María del Carmen. Pons Sampietro, Pere Joan. Postigo Quintana, Jesús. Pozueta Fernández, Isabel. Pujol and Farré, Norma. Quevedo Iturbe, Pedro. Ramallo Vazquez, Maria Pilar. Ramirez Carner, Arnau. Ramon Utrabo, Elvira. Ramos Rodríguez, José Luis Raya Rodriguez, Maria Tamara. Round Calvillo, Mary of the O. Rego Candamil, Nestor. Renau Martínez, German. Requena Ruiz, Juan Diego. Rodriguez Gomez, Maria del Pilar. Rodriguez Herrer, Maria Elvira. Rodriguez Rodriguez, Alberto. Rojas García, Carlos. Romero Hernández, Carmelo. Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano, Iñaki. Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan. Sabanes Nadal, Inés. Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea, Idoia. Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos. Salvador and Duch, Jordi. Sánchez Escobar, Mariano. Government members who said 'no': Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, Pedro. Calvo Poyato, Carmen. Square Mount, Mary Jesus. Meco Shades, José Luis. Government members who voted 'no' telematically: Turrion Churches, Pablo. Diaz Pérez, Yolanda. Montero Gil, Irene Maria. Spiny Garzón, Alberto. Members of the Bureau who said 'yes': Gil Lazarus, Ignacio. Members of the Bureau who said 'no': Suárez Illana, Adolfo. Sánchez Serna, Javier. Hernanz Costa, Sofia. Elizo Serrano, Maria Gloria. Pastor Julián, Ana Maria. Rodriguez Gómez de Celis, Alfonso. Batt Lamaña, Meritxell. Members of the Bureau who voted 'no' telematically: Pisarello Prados, Gerardo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-22-CD201022.u86	Thank you very much. Are there any honourable Members who have not been appointed to vote? [[Denials]] Consequently, the votes cast shall be scrutinised. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the vote was as follows: votes were cast, 350; votes in favour of the motion of censure, 52; votes against the motion of censure, 298; abstentions, none. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the ground]] [[long applause from the Members of the parliamentary groups who support the Government]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of an absolute majority of the members of the House, in accordance with articles 113.1 of the Constitution and 177.5 of the Rules of Procedure, the motion of censure is rejected. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was two and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
