ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the Chamber the amendment of the agenda to include at nine o'clock in the session on Thursday two new points that will be discussed cumulatively: on the one hand, communication from the Government accompanying Royal Decree 926/2020 of 25 October declaring the state of alarm to contain the spread of infections caused by SARS-COV-2 and, on the other hand, requesting authorization for the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 926/2020 of 25 October declaring the state of alarm to contain the spread of infections caused by SARS-COV-2. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u2	On the other hand, and also in accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in the part relating to appeals, so that the urgent interpellation of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, which is on the agenda as item 25, is first debated, and then the urgent interpellation of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys, which is on the agenda as item 24 of the agenda. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u3	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Republican Parliamentary Group, amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, to decriminalize the insults to the Crown and the outrages to Spain [[of the United Nations]] For the presentation of the initiative I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Telechea i Lozano.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I will begin by reading article 10 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms: Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right includes freedom of opinion and freedom to receive or communicate information or ideas, without interference by public authorities and without regard to borders. An advanced and modern democracy must ensure and guarantee to its citizens the full exercise of the right to freedom of expression, as it is one of the basic pillars of the right to citizens' participation in public affairs. If you maintain the right of insult to the Crown, it is essentially for two reasons. One, the sacralization of the Crown, granting him medieval rights in which the king is so untouchable that he cannot even use political satire against him and, two, because they act as monarchic fanatics who pretend to impose the monarchy by silence any opposition. The decriminalization of the crime of insulting the Crown should not be a debate between monarchs and republicans; it is a debate on democracy, and monarchs should prove that before monarchs are democrats. Moreover, if your king were truly democrat - and forgive the oxymoron - he would be the first to claim that the crime of insulting the Crown would be suppressed. The Spanish right, between democracy and monarchy, we have very clear where it is; the question is where the PSOE is. This proposed law is intended to comply with international laws, such as the European Convention on Human Rights, which has been enforced in Spain since its ratification in 1979. What this convention means is that the criminal repression of certain conduct does not - I quote in the words of the same convention - respond to the necessary measures in a democratic society. And it is that the current crimes of insulting the Crown and insulting Spain have only one objective: the persecution of political dissent, which questions the regime of 78 and challenges the privileges of those who support it. And to the same facts I refer. Our vice-president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Pere Aragonès, was denounced; the former mayor of Palma and leader of Més per Mallorca, Antoni Noguera; the president of the BNG, Ana Pontón and the deputy of Advance Andalusia, Teresa Rodríguez, for saying what is evidence and shame: that Spain has a corrupt monarchy. The Spanish State not only coerces rights and freedoms under the Penal Code, but also actively enforces it against the media, journalists, tweeters and protestors. And that's the reality. Surely everyone remembers the case of the cover of the magazine El Thursday or the persecution of the rapper Mallorcan Valtònyc, today exiled in Belgium, by his verses; the persecution of some councilman of Santa Coloma de Gramenet or members of the CUP; also the burning of the images of the king in Girona when he made his visit to the city or the persecution of the journalist Dani Mateo, accused of an offence of outrage against the flag after starring a gag in the program El Intermedio de la Sixth. Perhaps the most paradigmatic case is the one that ended in 2011 with the sentencing of Spain by the European Court of Human Rights in the Otegi case. According to the court, the interest of a State in protecting the reputation of its own head of State cannot justify the granting to the head of State of a special privilege or protection against the right to inform and express opinions on it. But in 2018 the European Court of Human Rights re-condemned Spain in the case of Stern Taulats and Roura Capellera. The court was very clear and said that the burning of the king's images should be understood as an act of rejection towards the institution of the monarchy and that, therefore, it falls within the scope of political criticism or dissent and is protected by the right to freedom of expression. In the same vein, Amnesty International has also expressed its view that heads of State, because they are public figures, should tolerate more criticism than citizens. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are used to the fact that in Spain everything is reversed and that the laws apply only to those for which we criticize them, if not, why can the extreme fascist right vomit expressions inciting hatred and nothing happens, but if you beat the Spanish anthem, they impute you? However, do not misunderstand us; we do not propose to them the reform of the Criminal Code so that the Spanish State can save itself the trouble of being reconvicted by the European Court of Human Rights. We bring here the repeal of the crimes of insult and insult to Spain because it is part of the State's repression against republicanism in general, and also against Catalan republicanism in particular; the same repression that keeps our political prisoners and prisoners and thousands of reprisals in unjust prison. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfection of the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u6	For this cover of El Thursday - which, for those who do not know, is a satirical magazine - its authors had to pay 3000 euros each as co-authors of a crime of insult to the successor of the Crown. [[showing a press clipping]] Not only that, the National High Court even kidnapped that issue of El Thursday magazine. That's right, the same ones who then silenced or justified the trial then filled their mouths with 'We're all Charlie Hebdo'. Burning the king's picture - a picture like this - with a lighter was punished with prison sentences of six months to two years. [[showing a photograph with the image of the mouthy king]] He had to reach the European Court of Human Rights to force the National Court to assume that they were violating freedom of expression. To sing - and I literally quote - that the Bourbons are thieves was sentenced to a year in prison to the rapper Mallorcan Valtònyc, who has now been in exile for three years, for simply expressing his opinion in a song. [[Rumors]] For insulting King Juan Carlos on Facebook - notice, and I quote literally - calling him a corrupt misguided, a man had to pay a penalty of 900 euros. For criticizing the corruption of the monarchy, once we knew the cases of corruption of Juan Carlos I, Pere Aragonès, Toni Noguera, Ana Pontón and Teresa Rodríguez were denounced, to whom we want to send all our support from here. [[Applauds]] Do you see how far we've come? If I burned a picture of any of you, of any Member, even of the President of the Government, judicially nothing would happen, my freedom of expression would prevail. Instead, if I burned a photo of the king, I could be tried for a crime. What's the difference between burning a picture of the king and anyone else? The difference is in the medieval conception you have of the monarchy. In the background, by the offence of insulting the Crown, they continue to consider the divine character of the king, as at that time when it was considered to be so by the grace of God, but, ladies and gentlemen, I am already telling you that John Charles I and Philip VI have not been kings by the grace of God, but kings by the grace of Francis Franco. Reasons to insult the king and his family have a few. We have a king who has fled the cases of corruption that directly involved him; we have a monarchy that, despite his efforts to make public that somehow isolated from these cases of corruption, are protecting him, and we have a government made up of parties of republican tradition that, far from having the democratic decency to investigate him, facilitate his escape. But it is not even a matter of having reasons or not having them; it is a matter of equalizing all citizenship, whether king or not, before the law. What can we expect from a Spanish State whose Constitution establishes that the Head of State is hereditary in the descendants of Juan Carlos de Borbón? Moreover, it states that in the line of succession the male will prevail over the woman; an example of this is that the current king is Philip VI and not his older sister Elena. Every day they give us more reason to be independent from the Spanish right and even from the Spanish left. We want to stop being subject to becoming citizens, citizens of a Catalan republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Rosique. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Suárez Lamata.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u8	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Telechea, we are not going to accept any of you, let alone any of you. It is a classic in Esquerra to want to decriminalize articles 490, 491 and 543 of the Penal Code; nothing new under the sun. Following your leader, Mr. Rufián, he had prepared a list of commonalities that you dedicate to the Crown and Spain. Basically, I had done so in these days when you are obsessed with adopting initiatives that call it hate speech to see all the hatred contained in those initiatives. But yesterday I was on the street and I found a person I didn't know anything about. He came out of this house, thought he was a deputy, and said to me, "Hey, why don't you do what you have to do? Well, look, I've changed the speech. You have come here today to talk about the decriminalization of insults and ex-abrupts against the monarchy. I want to ask you: does it not seem much worse to you to propose an initiative like this with which you are falling, with four million Spaniards who are unemployed? [[Applauds]] Your Honor, do you really believe that it is serious to bring here today the decriminalization of three articles of the Criminal Code, when there are one million Spaniards, 200,000 included in the ERTE and 800 000 who have not earned the minimum living income, who have not been able to eat for months because they have no money and who have increased the queues of hunger? You should know, Your Honor, that the demand for food has increased by 75% to Caritas. Doesn't it really seem to you that it is insulting to each and every Spaniard? When you go to see the 350 000 entrepreneurs who are seeing their businesses fall, will you tell them that the solution to not shut down your businesses is to insult the king? To that million poor people who have enlarged the list of poverty with this government that you support, will it also give you as a solution to insult the king? Your Honor, believe me that the problems of real Spain do not resemble what you are raising here today. I think it's a heavy joke he's falling for, with the health picture we have. Mr President, do you know that this country unfortunately contributes 30% of the death toll to all those in Europe? At 220 000, Spain contributes 67 000, we have a rate of contagion multiplied by four, and all that happens to Esquerra to solve health problems is to bring decriminalization and to insult the king for free? Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, I find it difficult to understand this initiative. In this initiative you persist. I've tried to find an explanation in the so complicated landscape that we're living and, look, I've come up with several. You who live fundamentally, and an important part of the policy, to set up numbers against the monarchy by burning flags, by burning photographs and all that you have wonderfully told, in the end you want it to come out for free. It's just that it bothers them to have to pay. It is an ad hominem initiative, a decriminalization of criminal types to benefit exclusively I would almost dare to say that you and a few more. I can also think of another explanation, Your Honor. I can think of the explanation that you have entered into this monarchic paranoia, because in the end the famous social shield, the one on which you constantly and permanently pooped, has turned out to have a hole through which everything hangs. It was mere electoral propaganda and, if not, ask everyone who is having a bad time. If you allow me, and already as an anecdotal note, perhaps your partner would say this is for the brother-in-law's manual; let's see if we raise his morale, whether he's independent or a little republican. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that, in the face of the problems of real Spain, insulting the king cannot be the solution. You said it yourself. If you acknowledge that with the Attorney General of the Government, not the State, insulting the king hour comes out for free. You mentioned three names: Pere Aragonès, Ana Pontón and Teresa Rodríguez. He said, I quote literally, for calling them corrupt. He has missed the other dedication very affectionate and, above all, very pacifying; they simply called them a criminal organization. Can you imagine what would be organized if I called you a criminal organization? You just a few days ago signed several writings against hate speech. What contains all those qualifications that you permanently and constantly dedicate to Spain or the Crown? It's sweet, isn't it? You understand it as something very affectionate! Gentlemen of the PSOE, Republican Left of Catalonia and, in particular, Mr Rufián, we are accustomed to many numbers here, performances, exabrupted nothing new, but these kinds of initiatives know that they give you wings, simply by the pacts you have with you; that you have decided to turn this government into forces that want to break Spain, in forces that, of course, want to break the coexistence, makes in the end we have to discuss initiatives like this. I will try to explain to you why this initiative. I don't know if that sounds like it. Spain cannot be one against all, Spain is of all and for all, harmony and respect. These words were quoted by King Philip VI in this House on the day it was proclaimed. And, of course, parties that live from the permanent discourse of hatred towards each other, parties that simply have to always have an enemy in front of them, logically these words bother them and bother them a lot. So you, instead of disarming the speech, because it is very difficult to disarm a speech that appeals to concord and that appeals to peace, simply what you want is to insult. They can't stand it. As for your criticisms, Your Honor, I am surprised that you come here today and complain that a sanction is imposed on you when you criticize the king. And, as for criticizing a mayor - the last one from Alcarràs, although I don't know who rules there - there is a penalty of 800 euros to a member of the CUP. Is that okay with you? You, who have representation in the city hall, have not opened your mouth, Your Honor. Why some yes, and why not others, Your Honor? This is what makes your initiative clearly sectarian. You criticize the Crown because it represents just the opposite of what you want, it represents Spain, which you hate so much. You are not anti-monarchical, you are anti-Spanish, and that is the gravity, Your Honor, of this initiative. [[Applauds]] This is not a debate on the right of opinion, against freedom of expression, against the crime of insults, this is much more serious. You should know that the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court is very consolidated. Those courts are the ones that you criticize when it goes wrong, but that you applaud - and I mean Mr. Trapero's sentence - when it goes well. This jurisprudence has made it clear to me that the protected good is not the person, but the institutions; in particular, the Spanish Constitution of 1978 and the institutions that form it are defended. We're not weird, Your Honor. Italy, France, Germany, Belgium, Portugal - and I could go on - all democratic countries in Europe protect those values in which they believe. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. A system like that of 1978 you certainly don't like; it's made it clear here, and that's why you're fighting, to boost it, Your Honor. But do you know what's going on? Which is a system that for forty years has allowed us to live better than ever. This country has prospered in forty years what other countries had to do in two hundred years, and we have done so in peace and together. You, with these kinds of initiatives, intend to energize that peace, that coexistence, because you need an enemy, and that enemy you call Spain. Do you know what has generated hatred in the world? Many problems, and it has never provided any solution. I'm gonna tell you something, and I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. When they insult the Crown, they insult me, for example, but they insult many Spaniards who still believe that the system we have today is a great system. And, above all, they insult Spaniards who look to the future and do so with peace, in agreement and thinking of improving this country; not like you, who are thinking of dynamite it. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Suárez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u10	Thank you, President. You say we're the opposite of the monarchy. Well, he's got us! [[Applauds]] It's just that we're Republican Left. If we face this unresourced pandemic, it's because of its cuts. You also have to have a little memory. The PP, precisely the People's Party, comes to us to talk about social measures. And the regime of 78, as you have said, has allowed us to live well, but a few, not the whole of Spanish society. It seems to me an insult to cover up the monarchy's corruption by apologizing to the pandemic. Do you know how many breathers we could have bought with the money the state invests in the monarchy, how many health workers we could have paid, how many more teachers we could have paid, how many help we could have given to families if the state didn't give those millions, more than that, to a family to which no one has voted? Do you know how much you could make with that amount of money to get out of this pandemic? Every time you speak you make it very clear what your Spain is, and give us even more reason to claim the independence of Catalonia and proclaim the Catalan Republic. Because, look, the vast majority of the Catalan population is republican, both those who want the Catalan republic and those who want a Spanish republic. And with the attitude of the major parties towards the monarchy, making it very clear to the people of Catalonia that they would like a Spanish republic that this is not possible, that the choice that must be made is not between monarchy - as I said before - or Spanish republic, but between Spanish monarchy or Catalan republic. Most of the Catalan population is clear and we defend it; we say nothing that is not known. And we defend the Catalan Republic not only because we believe that we do not have a king - nor do we want to - but because we want to build a new society, a new country, in which freedom of expression is sacred and there is no one who is judged and threatened to go to jail for burning a photo. Look, we don't insult the Crown; the Crown insults itself. By the way, whoever insulted the monarchy with criminal organization wasn't us, it was Corina, in case you don't remember. Thus, it is the Crown that, with its cases of corruption, insults Spanish citizens; not the Catalan population, which is republican, but also the Spanish population. Nothing more, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the truth is that to come up here to explain that Republican Left is Republican you have consumed a hard shift to understand. You're talking about cuts. Your Honor, I don't know if you know how this country was in 2008, 2009, 2010 or 2011, when Esquerra supported, applauding all day, Mr Zapatero. And I don't know if you know who was responsible for that economic debacle. Or do you think that came out from day to day? Of course we have had a bad time all Spaniards!, but for those bad policies that groups like yours endured and supported from a government. That's the explanation. And, man!, let you come here and talk about the economic situation you have in Catalonia, the truth is that I'm worried and quite. You haven't answered me why when you insult the mayor of Alcarràs you can impose a fine and why when you insult the monarchy, no. Simply, it is very easy: you protect and protect your own, but who does not think like you, simply, free bar and, above all, be free. That's the difference. [[Applauds]] That's the difference; that's the difference, ladies and gentlemen. Look, it seems to you normal to insult the king, Spain, but it seems normal to you because you live on this. Basically, his political discourse, which is empty of content, has only this: Spain steals from us; everything against Spain. That is their political philosophy, which is the essence of nationalism. This is very old, this was already studied in the 19th century in universities, the essence of nationalisms and the need for a permanent and constant enemy, because if what is nationalism is not finished. But what I have not just understood is the following - I have outlined it to you, but you have not explained it to me -, if you have been signing I don't know how many days of hate speech initiatives - by the way, signing each party... Because, of course, Bildu signs an initiative in which human rights are defended has fabric; he has fabric - how do they explain that there is then a free bar to insult the Crown, a free bar to insult Spain? I'm going to explain it to you, because I think you don't understand me; I'm going to do it for the second time. Spain represents just the opposite of what you are; the monarch represents just the opposite of what you are: concordia; concordia. The monarch represents this nation that you deeply hate and, therefore, as you cannot fight with a speech beyond insult, beyond burning the flag of this country, beyond exuberant and numerals, Your Honor, permanently and constantly, simply comes here today to ask you to come out for free to insult the king, to come out for free to insult Spain. I have already told you that this is not an invention of the People's Party. You, whether you like it or not, are in a legal order and jurisprudence says what it says, likes it more or less, and to date the Penal Code - that title - does not defend people, defends the institutions of millions of Spaniards. You just said Spain was republican. Are you the one who gives the Republicanist Carnets? Where do you have to pick him up? [[Rumors]] Look, Spain what you want is a future, Spain what you want is to live in peace, Spain what you want is everything but people like you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u13	Thank you, Mr. Suárez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, the classics return and the ladies Telechea and Rosique bring us this afternoon the archaic version of the already old aspiration of the Republican Left of Catalonia to decriminalize the insults to the Crown and the outrages to Spain. It is the fifth attempt of the series started in 2008 and I trust that my vote against will contribute to the rejection of Congress so that this gross manipulation of a sacrosanct right, such as freedom of expression, will not be reconverted, as you want, into leave to insult, dispensation to insult and bull to insult. Ladies and gentlemen, from this rostrum I warn the Spaniards not to create the propaganda of the opposite, however obstinate they are. Precisely because freedom of expression is one of our largest constitutional rights, Spain is one of the democracies recognized by highly accredited international evaluating bodies as one of the best democracies in the world. Despite the intoxicating campaigns, we are no world exception to punishing outrages and insults against flags and other national emblems, signs and symbols. Republics such as Greece, Italy, Portugal, Germany and France, among other countries of the European Union, penalise and punish without scrutiny the aggravation, offense and disrespectful behaviour towards their highest authorities and symbols, because they constitute, as is the case with Spain, protected legal goods. It is also the Catalan symbols, and in fact, the Autonomous Government of Catalonia requested the protection of the Spanish justice for outrage against the lady, among other serious crimes that occurred in the assault on the Blanquerna Cultural Center. The spokespersons of Esquerra Republicana impute to Spain an anti-democratic behavior that, according to them, restricts freedom of expression. It is false, just by listening to the interventions and the nonsense of its spokesmen it certifies the extension of the exercise of this fundamental right of our country. Also...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u15	Mr. Martínez Oblanca, I'm so sorry, but your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u17	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. See if it is great democracy in Spain that a parliamentary group that aims to not belong to Spain presents itself to the elections, comes to this Congress, defends the one that can be insulted both to the Head of State and to the symbols that represent the country, to Spain, and I suppose that in addition to all that will accept the result of the vote. With this, you can defend the ideas, you can defend the principles, you can defend what you want in a democratic way, which is what you did not do in October in Catalonia. See how you can? Of course you can! [[Applauds]] He has come, he has defended it, then we will vote and I assume they will accept the result. I guess; I guess. It has drawn my attention to the fact that the Socialist Party has not used the vote against this proposal. Because the main party of Spain at the moment does not come out to defend two fundamental symbols of Spain as are its flag and the Head of State draws attention and shows how far they are handed over in this case to the Republican Left of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Why do you want to take away the king's insult or that one can burn flags of Spain? For what they represent! It is that the flag represents Spain as a country and represents us all of the Spaniards, and it is a question of respect. And the Head of State doesn't care if he's a monarch or someone else. They are annoyed by the Head of State as a symbol of the unity of Spain, as a symbol of Spain. That's what bothers them, and that's why it's set out in the Penal Code, because it represents us all, those we like and those we don't like, the whole, and that's done in any country in that way, because they're symbols that represent the country and they're part of that country, that nation. Another thing is then the coherence of each one. These days we are seeing, for example, the coherence of the Socialist Party itself and of the Government, which takes two people from the Basque Nationalist Party to sell the brand of Spain abroad. That is, two people who say that their only homeland is the entelequia that is Euskal Herria and that their only flag is the ikurriña go on behalf of all the Spaniards to defend the Spanish brand outside of Spain. For, obviously, the wrong way, and also they are incoherent. At least to you, I believe that you must recognize the consistency that you come here to defend what you do not believe in, which is in the flag of Spain and in the Head of State. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u20	Thank you, President. The importance of the monarchy in the 78's regime has been mentioned and certainly so, and that is why it is protected not only by the laws but also by the powers in the shadow, even with not so explicit pressures. In fact, what we are talking about today has an even more remote origin. The Law of Jurisdictions is of 1906, originated because the military at that time felt offended by a vignette in a Catalanist publication and since then comes the intention to protect some symbols through what they call the outrages to the nation, outrage to Spain, a crime that, by the way, was abolished with the Republic but which Francoism reintroduced. Therefore, this need to protect some symbols that are known to be not the way of prestige, because the popularity of the army, the popularity of the Spanish flag, the popularity of the monarchy in certain countries such as my own, such as Catalonia, such as the Catalan countries, does not increase thanks to these laws, but rather decreases. Then, one should think about why these laws are almost - as has been said - of persecution of dissent. Valtònyc's was perhaps the last time it was applied and should return from exile, since this crime should not exist. In addition, the Spanish State, as has been said, has already received two slaps from the European Court of Human Rights in this regard. In 2011, Arnaldo Otegi won a complaint to the Spanish state for referring to the king as head of the torturers - it was considered freedom of expression - and in 2018 Jaume Roura and Enric Stern also won the Spanish state in the courts for having burned photographs of the king. But these are not the only cases: we have that of Valtònyc, which has been quoted, and that of El Thursday, a magazine that has suffered fines, kidnapping and even self-censorship, which is even more perverse. The cover of the day of Juan Carlos' abdication in favor of Felipe did not come out and caused the consequent stir in the magazine, with resignations from various journalists. As I said at the outset, that an authority needs to protect itself with these measures in substance is a sign that it is an imposed authority. The survey published a few weeks ago by the media pointed out that in the Spanish state as a whole 41% of the population, compared with 35% who were against, preferred the monarchy, a distance that in Catalonia becomes ironic, since 66.5% is in favour of the republic and 14.6% in favour of the monarchy. By the way, this is a survey that was done by various means, since the monarchy not only protects the crime of insulting the Crown, but also the CIS, because it does not ask people what opinion it deserves. In short, they have the opportunity to make the insults disappear - I conclude, Madam President- to the Crown and the outrages to Spain before...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Your time's up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u22	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the last king was kicked out not as a king, but as a thief. This assertion of Valle-Inclán, which could be current, according to the Criminal Code of our day, depending on what contexts it is said, could even become a crime. Moreover, the resolutions of this very House of 1931, talking about Alfonso XIII and about the Royal House, could also be criminal, and that seems absurd, at least, because absurd is an article in which it is pointed out that any form that could damage the prestige of the Crown will be punished; that is, any criticism that is considered by some judge or militant magistrate who is criminal. But let's get to the point. Here we are talking about a question of legality and I would say to the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party that: and the European one, what? Because you said: it seems that the gentlemen of Esquerra do not like the framework in which they live! Well, it looks like you don't like the frame you live in. He said that there are judgments, a case law consolidated both in the National Court and in the Supreme Court, and that is the problem. I think that is why this proposal has been brought here today, because there is something that you have forgotten and that there is a consolidated case law by the European Court of Human Rights, and that court has said that this legislation, which is contrary to the European Convention, is not appropriate. That is why it must be borne in mind that some judges, rather than applying the European criterion, that jurisprudence, are doing not an exercise of militant democracy, but of militant Bourbonism and give them the European, as you have done, gives them the same as what the European Court of Human Rights has said on several occasions and goes to their own, to somehow overprotect the monarchy. But this is not new, it has already been mentioned before: there are numerous agencies, from the United Nations to Amnesty International-type associations, who have come to say for a long time that these articles do not marry the criteria of necessity, legality and proportionality. On the other hand, we are dealing with the issue of freedom of expression. You have shown - and it is in all your right - that you do not like to be criticized, that you insult even the monarchy, the head of state, and it is respectable. There are even some insults that may be out of what is called good education, and it may be so. But that is precisely what freedom of expression is about. When it comes to freedom of expression, it is not for the real corifes, it is not for the real balls; no, it is precisely for those who make tremendous criticisms, anti-system, if it seems to you, or against the Constitution. Here is the stress test of this article, which, as other speakers mentioned, has been reflected in all the conventions, in all the letters that have been signed and ratified by the Spanish State, are part of the Spanish legislation. There's the real stress test. What is happening - we mentioned it - is that in Spain many rulings of the Constitutional Court have said that it is not a militant democracy. But here - let us insist again - there is militant Bourbonism, there are magistrates who disregard the criteria of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights, with the sentences of Arnaldo Otegi or the sentence of the spokespersons of Esquerra and the CUP, of Mr Stern and of Roura, where it is said that there was a political criticism of the monarchy. [[By the way, the only one for which a State has twice been convicted for using all the exceptionality and illegality against a person, and there we could talk about the reason of State against Basque independence or Catalan independence, but we will do that another day]] Thirdly, what is a nonsense - it has also been commented - is that by making a song someone can be condemned and that the content of that song, when written in a journalistic article, whether in the Tribune de Genève, can be an investigative article that deserves all the recognition; that a cover of a satirical magazine can be kidnapped a number and condemned to its authors and instead a cover of Libèration can be a cover that draws attention and can even be nominated for international awards for appearing practically the same image. Before it was commented, and I share it, that we are before a medieval institution, as is the monarchy. I thought that in that medieval monarchy there were the buffoons, those who could make satire, mock or criticism of the king. But in the Spanish state - another gentleman said that it is a modern democracy, consolidated, of the most referent in the world - satire, criticism or even insult is megaprotected. Then there is even talk of hate crimes. Let us see: according to the criteria of the Council of Europe, of the European Union, hate crimes attempt to protect vulnerable categories, vulnerable groups. For you, the monarchy, that undemocraticly elected superpower, is that sector vulnerable to protection? That's political criticism. It may be harsh, contumid, but it's political criticism. In conclusion, I believe that consideration should also be given to the fact that in the Bureau of Congress, every time a question concerning the Royal House is raised, not only is censored, but even that it can be said that it may in some way be lacking in parliamentary courtesy. I recently asked a question about a gentleman who says he is the legitimate son of Juan Carlos I, Mr Albert Solà. In case it does and is the firstborn, I asked whether constitutionally that gentleman would be the legitimate head of state. Well, by raising that question, I have been told not only that it is not a matter of government, but that it would be rude to raise it, when it was done with all courtesy and education. Which is why I think you should abandon that militant bourbonism. In short, it is time to stop putting the king above the law and adjust...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u23	Mr. Iñarritu, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u24	... to the criteria of common sense and European. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-Vasco Nationalist Party]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u26	Thank you very much, President. We are brought to debate the decriminalization of abusive or slanderous conducts with the Crown and conducts that may be considered an insult to symbols, based on the right to freedom of expression and ideological and supported or quoted in international treaties signed by Spain in international organizations that protect them, in the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights and in comparative law, uniquely of France and the United States of America. Against this decriminalization - it has been said in part by previous speakers - it is often argued that Spain is no exception, that democracy is respect, that it would leave Spanish democracy unarmed, that it is attitudes that involve hate crimes and that it would consolidate a form of violence. It has also been said with exaggeration that what is wanted is that everyone at all times can insult and slander the Crown and outrage the symbols and it has also been pointed out that it is not only the king and his family, the Royal House, but also and especially the Crown as an institution and, ultimately, the Constitution itself, which is the same as that of outrage at the symbols. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no unlimited right, nor is there an exception to the right to freedom of expression. And so, in our cultural sphere and in general, the limits to freedom of expression are set criminally in the crimes of insult and slander and in the advocacy of the crime and its perpetrators. So where is the controversy if there is no doubt and it is peaceful that freedom of expression has a clear limit on the crimes of insult and slander? For, ladies and gentlemen, the controversy arises because the conduct that is now intended to decriminalize, when it has been criminally reprimanded, has been linked to demonstrations in an environment of political criticism or dissent, either towards the monarchy or towards the unity of the State. Because, indeed, they are behaviors that attack institutions and the symbols they represent, but we cannot ignore that, at the moment they occur, their political context is a context or moment for a part of the crisis citizenship of constitutional institutions, such as the same form of State, the monarchy itself, or a conflict between different national identities within the State. Therefore, when these criticisms have been penalized, it has been perceived as a limitation to freedom of expression and ideological, not as an insulting, slanderous or outrageous disqualification, for this is as much as confusing, in our view, the finger with the moon, it is as much as criminalizing political conflicts, it is as much as banning criticism of the system through criminal means and it is as much as judicializing politics and, consequently, politicizing justice, transferring social debates that must have other channels. That is why the European Court of Human Rights considers - specifically pointing to Spain and these criminal types - that a prison sentence imposed for an offence committed within the framework of political debate constitutes interference with freedom of expression, which is not proportional to the legitimate aim pursued or necessary in an advanced democratic society. Which, obviously, does not mean that it is not possible to offend by insulting or slandering the head of state. What the European Court of Human Rights wants to say and says in these cases are three things. First, that it is not proportional to establish a specific criminalization according to who is the person offended, establishing penalties more severe than the general ones, that this violates the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. Secondly, that whenever expressions can be framed in a context of political criticism, they must be regarded as a manifestation of freedom of expression, protected by article 10 of the Convention and article 20 of the Spanish Constitution. And third, that these symbolic expressions of rejection and legitimate political criticism of any monarchy, public office or unitary manifestation of a State have nothing to do with linking to hate crimes and violence, in the light of their doctrine on the clear and imminent risk of causing materially violent and harmful behaviour. And all this also, as the UN Human Rights Committee points out, however untapped and inappropriate political and ideological criticism of flags, symbols or institutions; criticisms that can on many occasions become clearly offensive, improper, unjust, outrageous or even alien to reality and that our parliamentary group does not share, which, in our view, should not, however, lead to restricting the freedom of expression that must be applied in a prevailing way when it comes to political criticism. I'm finishing up, President. The Basque Parliamentary Group, as it has done in other legislatures when this matter has been brought to debate, will vote in favour of its consideration, considering that it is a matter, even beyond what is contained in the proposal for a law, which calls for a debate on paper and the Commission, in order to consider in a strict manner the proposal that is made to us or others that could come out of it, without even knowing that freedom of expression also extends to ideas and expressions that can be offensive, shocking and disturbing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u28	Thank you, President. Some have been surprised that Esquerra is bringing this matter here in pandemic. I, on the other hand, know that it is important for Esquerra, because for nationalism it is important to insult, insult and slander. Let's see what each of these verbs means. Injure, according to the RAE: aggravate, outrage, harm, undermine. Exalt, according to the RAE: act or insult. And, finally, slander, according to the RAE: falsely and maliciously ascribe words, acts or dishonorable intentions to someone, or falsely charge a crime. This is what you want to allow to be done with the king, the queen or her daughters, but also with Spain and our symbols. That is to say, if I call those who have tried to strike a coup d'état, you are agitating, making the pine bridge in the seat, asking that it be removed from the Journal of Sessions, but you want to be able to slander, insult and outrage freely. Well, at least they're sincere. You want to legitimize a form of violence; I'm not surprised, nationalism always leads to violence and without it it's nothing. It is clear that in metamorphosis, like that of the frog, the degrees of violence are always the same to us. It is not the same in the renacuaj phase, which could be a nationalism in democratic regime that tries to disguise, that a nationalism in the frog phase or fat frog on top of a stone, as can be Milosevic a couple of decades ago. The problem is that there are those who believe that the renacual and the frog are different animals. It happens to the Socialist Party, it happens to some well-intentioned members of Esquerra - it does not happen to those of Bildu, who know perfectly well that they are very fat frogs - who believe that their nationalism is different, and no, it is the same species. If you keep a fin in your pocket, as time goes by, you'll take it out and you'll have a fat toad in your hand. You do not confuse us, you defend a violent political tradition and there is history; you need violence, you need lies. I'm not saying it, the story says it. Nationalism exerts violence with what it can, now with the word: slander, insult and outrage, that is, lies and insult. The word in these forms is an expression of violence or, as a socialist deputy called José Andrés Torres Mora said, does the word not destroy reputations? Doesn't the word hurt? Doesn't the word make you cry? They want you to be able to insult, slander and insult, for example, the queen or her daughters. Gentlemen of Podemos, does the Crown eliminate gender? Are you going to vote for this? Calumny and insult, lies and insult are two fundamental pillars of nationalism. The slander and the insult have an essential element, the lie; the truth makes us free and you have to carry it to carry the freedom. If the nationalism of lying is disarmed, the seams are seen, so they want to legalize it. There are many examples: the Catalan-Aragonese Crown; the Catalan Countries; the film this which has been mounted with the war of European succession; the Catalan race, which have hidden under the carpet because it is now little pop, or that Catalan nationalism was totally anti-Franchist. Also lies such as that Catalans pay more taxes than the rest of Spain, as if he taxed the soil and not the people, as if Hacienda looked from where one is and not with how much he can contribute. With lies they want the Spaniards not to realize that politicians who say themselves on the left and progressives actually have problems with the king because the king defends unity and solidarity between Spaniards. The king defends that the rich help the poor, that among all we create means for the exercise of rights and freedoms; in front of this king, the so-called independenceist left wants the rich Catalan nationalists to be able to leave to break that solidarity. That is the truth that you want to cover up with these slanders and these lies. You want to create a great fiscal paradise, the greatest eviction in history; if there was a well-informed October revolution, today you would not take the Zarzuela, you would take the seats of the Republican Left, because you want a privileged class based on the ground. The king bothers them for their tax amnesty, the king bothers them to be feudal lords, the king bothers them to impose privilege against equality. They want to be noble but unnoticed. In Spain one can criticize the king already today, in a discarnate way. If a member of the royal criminal family goes to jail but does not seek pardons or preferential treatment. Do nationalists believe in freedom of expression? Do they always apply this criterion? Let's see a practical case : Quim Torra complains against Juan Marín for slander, for accusing him of insulting the Andalusians. [[shows a newspaper clipping]] Onion paper skin has you. Look, it was filed, because this wasn't a slander, it was a description of the facts. Finally, they want Spain to be able to be outraged. Why? I'll tell you why you want to outrage Spain. Spain is rights for all, you want privileges for some; Spain protects the truth, you want lies to prevail; Spain is freedom, you want tyranny. They're called the Republican Left of Catalonia. Let's go over there. You are not leftist, you are anti-rightist; you are not republican, you are anti-monarchical; you are not Catalanist, you are anti-Spanish. You'll lose this pulse but then we'll all win, so will you. You know why? For Spain, like all the great nations, protects all, even those who do not believe in it. I think it is clear what the vote means. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u29	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u30	Thank you, Madam President. The greatest evidence of the low democratic quality of the Spanish regime is the existence in its Penal Code of crimes of opinion; repressive legislation that restricts a fundamental right such as freedom of expression and punishes its exercise when it is aimed at criticizing institutions or symbols of the State it considers sacrosanct. There have been numerous cases of convictions for reasons of opinion over the past 40 years. Let me tell you only four in my country in the short time I have. In 1980, singer Suso Vaamonde was sentenced to six years in prison for insulting the Spanish nation for the lyrics of a song, curiously a popular song and well known in Galicia. He spent his time in exile. In 1981, historian Francisco Carballo was sentenced to six months and a day in prison for a book in which it was reported that the Spanish police killed in 1975 Xose Ramón Reboiras Noia, a fighter in defense of Galicia's freedom and sovereignty, leader of the Union do Povo Galego, a party that is now part of the BNG. In 2009, Moncho Reboiras was officially recognized as a victim of Francoism. In 1986, the leader of BNG Francisco Rodríguez, accused of insulting the Spanish flag, was sentenced to two years in prison. Rodriguez was a deputy for twelve years in this Congress, in which he exercised brilliantly as a great defender of Galicia's interests. At that time, Francisco Rodríguez defended the reform of the Penal Code to - I quote textually - that this crime cannot be used in a capriciously political manner and with a desire for intimidating punishment at discretion. In August 2020, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office investigated the national spokesman of the BNG, Ana Pontón, along with Pere Aragonès de Esquerra and Teresa Rodríguez de Avancee Andalucia for saying what we all know: that the Bourbons are thieves and corrupt. In between, thousands of people persecuted in my country and throughout the Spanish state for their opinions about the king or Spain. This criminalization is not compatible with a system that is truly democratic and it is very evident that it is used to pursue the political discrepancy, especially the sovereignty of the non-State nations or the legitimate criticism of an anachronistic and corrupt monarchy, such as that of the Bourbons. I do not know whether they are aware that the existence of such crimes and their practical application highlights the weakness of the regime of 78 and of the Spanish monarchical and unitary State itself, because it seems that it can only be maintained through the punishment of the dissenter, using it, moreover, as exemplary to deter the exercise of a right as basic and fundamental as freedom of expression. Know that we - the BNG, the sovereignists, the Democrats - will never stop exercising it, whether you like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Also for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. At this point in the 21st century we would not have to be talking about these things. The jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights has made it very clear that the legitimate exercise of fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression or ideological freedom, cannot be criminalized. Therefore, to the extent that Spanish judges and courts are also European courts, no Spanish judge could today apply any of those criminal types of insults or insults which you propose to repeal. And why does that happen? That is because in Spain there are some judges - in any case, too many - who are shunned not to conservative positions, which would be legitimate, but to directly reactionary political positions and therefore do not recognize the primacy of fundamental rights over existing legislation. It should therefore be noted that the problem is not so much to repeal one or two criminal types or one or two articles of the Criminal Code, but to establish a much broader programme of democratic regeneration. It is necessary to change the whole judicial power, not only the choice of the vowels, but all as a whole, also the access to the judiciary. However, that was a long-term reform programme and, in the meantime, those laws that allowed convictions contrary to fundamental rights to take place and, in particular, to establish effective control mechanisms when a court issued convictions with a clear violation of fundamental rights should be reformed or repealed. And that can be achieved? Yeah. Is there a majority for it? Yes, and in your hands, comrades of Republican Left, he's getting it. When the government of PSOE and We come to ask for your support for the budgets, your thirteen votes to approve the budgets, condition them to a program of reforms that includes all that so that never again a dissident can be condemned in Spain in a way contrary to fundamental rights, so that never again a Catalan, for the peaceful exercise of fundamental rights, can be condemned for insults, outrages, disobedience, sedition or rebellion. It is possible to do so and it is in your hands to ensure that there is a majority for it. I ended up with a final point. In order to resolve satisfactorily the legal problem of insults to the Crown the most effective thing is not to repeal insults, the most effective thing is to ask for the removal of the monarchy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Alonso Cuevillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u34	President, ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the right-wing spokespersons, let me ask you a few questions. How many varapalos from Europe do they need to be challenged to modernise the Penal Code containing relics of the past such as the crime of insulting the Crown or sedition? How many tweeters, singers or dissident humorists will be gagged and will have to go to Strasbourg until then? How many convictions for violations of human rights will be handed down against Spain for taking fundamental freedoms seriously? How many times will the Council of Europe or the UN Human Rights Committee have to remember that Spain protects the Crown irregularly and excessively? Listening to you today, I know that these questions stand in the way of you, as does the Europe of human rights. That is why they cite Spanish jurisprudence and never European jurisprudence, because Europe is an uncomfortable mirror for you that reflects your powerless and wounded nationalism. But there is something that is unspeakable in democracy: no institution, no matter how you feel it, can escape political criticism. Democracy does not emanate from the monarchy or from a flag, but from the exercise of fundamental rights. Freedoms are the real institution that must be overprotected and it is the only one that can be defended above the others. And that is why freedom of expression also protects the criticisms that disturb, offend, hurt and are ungrateful. That is the greatness of democracy. That is why even the burning of the king's photos, which for many of you deserved jail, in Europe the judges have said it is the exercise of fundamental rights. And that's why these behaviors were decriminalized in countries like France, seven years ago, or in the United States, sixty years ago, when the Supreme Court said that burning the American flag as a symbol of freedom, and that's precisely why it was also an exercise of freedom. If we confront that reality with the Spanish one, more questions arise. What symbolizes a flag that needs to be armed with such a disproportionate criminal core? What makes the sin of not following the flag so serious, as Brassens sang? What indicates that an institution such as the monarchy needs to be strengthened by criminal repression to whom it is criticized or mocked? As the spokesman for the CUP has said, when it is less solid and more democratic than an institution, it has more to resort to criminal law. Therefore, you defend the validity of this crime; you, who are concerned about the prestige of the monarchy, do not defend us. In fact, this Friday we will remove the medal to the Emeritus King at the City Hall of Barcelona. It has a very simple formula, a formula for monarchs: not to get above the law with privileges and honors that are incompatible with democracy and not corrupt. In a word, don't steal. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, some of you have a curious concept of offenses, there is a striking double standard. When Members like Mr Abascal come here to call other Members of the European Parliament, terrorists, coups or murderers, nothing happens and, instead, a singer has to flee to Europe in order not to be imprisoned for saying something that many Spaniards think: that the Bourbons are thieves. You are offended today because we bring this debate here to the House, but we are offended by many other things. Do you know what the biggest offense to Spain is to us? That justice is not the same for everyone, that there are still thousands of Republicans in the gutters, and that a foundation bearing the name of his executioner is still legal. That's what offends us. And it also offends us that whoever pointed out the dictator as his heir flees precisely to an Arab dictatorship in the midst of the pandemic. You say that 'with which it is falling', for 'with which it is falling' is a shame that the Emeritus King fled. And what offends us is also the speech of October 3, when the king stood on the side of the batons, of those who shouted 'a for them' and not of the citizenry in defense of the schools. [[Applauds]] And we are also offended by the lack of control over the expenditure of the royal family when hospital beds are missing and Mr. Tezanos treats citizens as minors so that they do not know what the polls are pointing out: that most of Spain is a republican. That's what offends us. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, this is the second time we have had a debate on the monarchy and we have discrepancies. Let us hope that the third will be won and that in the future we can also agree not only on democratic hygiene measures such as this one we are debating, but also on the republican horizon we are fighting for, because I know that you also have a republican soul. Finally, this law will not come forward today and only one question remains to be asked: How long do some believe that they can continue to hide under the carpet of this Congress the demands of that republican majority, or not, that they want to put light and stenographers in an institution as opaque as the monarchy, or that they want to end the areas of impunity, or the persecution of those who criticize it? More than a century has passed since the persecution of Valle Inclán or Unamuno for outrages against the king. And now it is absolutely intolerable that the mystification of the monarchy is an obstacle to citizen debate, free debate. In this context, it will always be preferable to attack the symbols of power than it is the power itself that attacks the spaces...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u36	... of criticism irrefutable in any democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u37	Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u38	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u39	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u40	With all due respect, Madam President. The proponent group of this initiative is Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. To the lovers of historical memory, which in this House there are many, I will remind you of what the Republican Left of Catalonia represents in this order of things that bring us here today to discuss. The proclamation of the Catalan State within the Spanish Federal Republic, in October 1934, by President Company, President of the Generality of Catalonia, in the heat and heat of the revolutionary strike unleashed by the Spanish Socialist Workers Party against the legitimate Republican Government. The reaction of the Republican Government against such proclamation and such statement of the Government of the Generality and its President, of the Republican Left of Catalonia, of the Government presided over by the radical Alejandro Lerroux: the sending of the Army, which took the square of San Jaime - there were dead, because anarchists shot at the soldiers - and the surrender of that Government in the morning following. [[A Member of Parliament: Cowards!-Rumors]] The suspension of autonomy on account of that military rebellion.. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u41	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u42	... by law of 14 December 1934. The prosecution and conviction of companies and others responsible for military rebellion. I don't know if they hear me well and if they hear me in the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court: military rebellion. [[Applauds]] Thirty years in prison, sentence. He sentenced the leader of the Mossos d'Esquadra and other military and police officials who shot at the Army to death; the punishment was commuted, by the way, by the President of the Republic, who was Niceto Alcalá-Zamora. By the way, compare this reaction of that longing Republican government on the left with the inane reaction of the People's Party in the events of October 2017. [[Applauds]] Unforgivable and unforgivable, however hard it may be for Mr. Married to believe it, because then Rajoy did not say 'we have come'; he did not say so. [[Applauds]] Shame would have to have this inconsistency of coming today to vote against this bill! Shame would have to have, which I think they do not have, not for reasons of having it, but for their own waste. What do you intend, in short, to do with the Republican Left of Catalonia? What you're trying to say is what you're saying. What he claims is that it is unpunished in Spain to insult the head of state and outrage Spain. This is unacceptable. There is no nation in the orb, normally constituted, to allow it. There isn't. Mr Legarda, spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party, says: this does not mean that they are going to be insulting all day. Sure, a few times yes and a few times no, ad libitum. [[Applauds]] Mr. Legarda, please, you said that. The judgment in the Stern and Roura case of the European Court of Human Rights of 2018. Those who have intervened in this meeting and are counsel, all suspended. [[Laughter and applause]] You haven't been able to take advantage of the sentence, you're very clumsy. All suspended. If they had been my students in college they would all be suspended, have no doubt; and in the next call, oral examination in court. [[rumors]] [[Laughter]] The judgment does not rule on whether the disputed conviction is a matter of the right to freedom of expression. Paragraph 25 expressly states: It refers to whether it should be qualified as hate speech. This is forgotten to you, because you read the sentence, of course, biasedly, pro domo sua, as it suits your interests. Secondly, the judgement has a case-by-case assessment; the judgment expressly states in that case, which is a unique case, that the king's portrait is burned in a political demonstration and insists on this detailed nature of his reasoning and judgment. It has no general claim concerning criminal charges; not even about the criminal charge of 490.3, which is the subject of debate in that proceedings before the Court of Strasbourg. Not to mention the 491 or 543 outrages against Spain, which do not even mention or have any relation to what that sentence says. Therefore, an excess in interpretation, otherwise, I insist, rather clumsy and, if I may any - and I hope you do not feel insulted -, pauperrim. The judgment, it is true, recalls the previous judgment in the Otegi Mondragon case; yes, it says that there is no special protection for the head of State in the matter of insults. But it is also true that after that ruling in the 2011 Mondragon case the Spanish Constitutional Court ruled in 2015, and it does not protect the appellants who then went to Strasbourg, it does not protect them! And it does not protect them because it says that such protection is not the protection of the head of the State or of the monarch; it is the protection of the institutions of the Spanish State and of the Spanish nation, because the head of the State what it represents - and the Constitutional Court says - is the national unity and the permanence of the State, and this is what the Constitutional Court says because the Constitution says this in article 56.1. Then there is intellectual space to discuss whether or not subsistence is legitimate. Otherwise, here the comparative right has already been invoked, I will not do it. The republican France, Mr Asens - you do not know -, the republican France maintains the special offence of insulting the head of State, the President of the Republic, likened to insulting deputies and ministers. The republican Italy, four crimes of political vilipendio: of the president of the Republic, of the Italian nation, of the Italian flag and of the Republic itself, declared constitutional by the Italian Constitutional Court. And other parliamentary monarchies in Europe, virtually all of them, and other republics, which are the United States and the European Union. However, if the case law of the European Court of Human Rights took an evolutionary body in order to admit the insults to the head of State and the outrages to Spain as something that should not merit qualification...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u43	Mr. Sanchez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u44	...and criminal charges, VOX would propose appropriate initiatives. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, I would like to say a few words.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u45	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Leal Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Republican Group is presenting a legislative initiative to delete from the Penal Code the title of the crimes against the Constitution, the insults and slanders to the king and the offenses and insults to Spain, the autonomous communities or their symbols and emblems, because that is the debate that brings us this afternoon and not another. The Constitution collects and mentions symbolic elements when it refers to the flag as a symbol - the flag of Spain, the flag proper to the autonomous communities - while designing an institutional system that has as its basis and form of state the parliamentary monarchy. I will not stop, because the previous speakers have already done so profusely, on grounds of case law. The European Court of Human Rights, the Venice Commission and even our Constitutional Court have been repeatedly cited, as well as the approaches of criminal doctrine, among which are jurist badges, such as Concepción Gamarra or Santiago Muñoz Machado, who recommend an evolution in the interpretation that the courts must make of these crimes, adapting their application to social evolution, to the times and to the increasingly powerful exercise of freedom of expression. It should be made clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the European Court of Human Rights has not explicitly called on Spain to repeal these criminal rules which protect the honour and reputation of the Head of State, because they are not incompatible with the European Convention on Human Rights. Moreover, the Court has recognized that it is legitimate for State institutions to be protected by the competent authorities as guarantors of institutional public order. In the Socialist Group we believe that the negative impact on these constitutional requirements must necessarily entail a legal sanction. The debate on what kind of sanction should ensure the protection of constitutionally recognized symbols and institutions requires and requires a deep debate and a basic consensus that does not compete at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, as in so many complex situations, seemingly extreme ideas can lead to identical results, and they are not desirable or appropriate. Discarding invites us, leads us to focus on this, to improve what we have. From this basis, proposals must be found, good reasons that can be used to agree on reforms necessary to adapt and modernize, to improve the established, to recreate constitutional legality and to strengthen the institutions and the confidence of citizens in them. This is not the time to open this debate on decriminalization. To open this debate now, to decontextualize this reform that they propose to us, does nothing but distract and place it in the realm of demagogy, of the interested interpretations of the ill-intentioned; nothing desirable or desirable in these times when it is necessary to prioritize our actions in order to face the pandemic and its social and economic consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, the guarantee of freedom of expression, the determination of its sanction, the necessary balance between the limits of freedom of expression, political freedoms and the honour of the institutions, is undoubtedly a common task of the legislator; to equip society with instruments for its defence. Socialists stand firm in our commitment to defending freedom of expression as a fundamental right, as an exercise in acting but within an essential limit, the fact that acts or words do not in any case incite the use of violence, call for public violence or may constitute a speech of hatred. The offenses that aim to weaken the institutions are not good, ladies and gentlemen, and those that aim - and do - to denigrate the high institutions of the State, the Crown, Spain or the autonomous communities, are nothing good and must be reprobated. For the Socialist Group to defend the stability of our rule of law is to ensure democratic coexistence within the Constitution and to protect the high institutions of the State is to safeguard the parliamentary monarchy, the head of the State within the constitutional pact. Behaviour that justifies hatred, promotes hostility and leads to intolerance must be not only reprehensible, but punished as acts incompatible with democracy, and in their defence they will always find us. Underlining the weight of all these premises, the desirability of reaching great agreements and consensus to address future reforms, for our responsibility, for which it has accompanied us throughout our history as a party and as a government, because it is also necessary to take into account the criterion of opportunity in a Parliament, the vote of the Socialist Group in this plenary will be contrary to the processing of this proposal for a law. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Leal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To the best of my knowledge, as I mentioned today and last week at the Spokesman's Meeting, and so that we can all adjust to the prescribed times, from today on, speakers will be warned that their time will end when they are thirty seconds short, so that they can complete their speech before they are withdrawn. We understand that we will do a better and more rational management of plenary time, and so agreed by the Board of Spokespersons. Thank you very much. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, A BODY FOR THE DEROGATION OF ARTICLE 315(3) OF THE CRIMINAL CODE. [[File number 122/000083]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u48	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is an organic repeal of article 315.3 of the Criminal Code. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Fernández Benéitez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. My parliamentary group presents this bill because it repeats previous attempts to solve the problems raised by article 315 of the Criminal Code concerning the aggravated crime of coercion in the course of the strike. As you will recall, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has already worked on this issue on other occasions and we will defend it once again today, as we have always done, by socialist conviction and trade union tradition. Look, I think that today's debate is not fundamentally based on the different ideologies that are represented in this House and that are the voice of a plural and respectful country like Spain, it is based rather on the rule of law. And it is that, as you know, more than forty years ago we considered that the right to strike should be a fundamental right, and that is because we agreed and because we understood and assumed that collective bargaining was the point of balance for democracy to also mean freedom, equality and effective participation. I believe that all of us here agree that work conditions the life and survival of most of society, and that is why we Social Democrats agree that the labour market cannot be involved solely in supply and demand, but that social and political negotiation is necessary to guarantee labour rights and, consequently, to guarantee a decent and free life for all people. Thanks to more than a century of union struggle, we have understood that workplaces are more than just production enclaves, they are also political spaces where all parties must have mechanisms of active participation and decision-making capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, it is fair to acknowledge that the category of citizenship as we understand it today is linked to class trade unionism. Having said all this, it is no wonder that the parents of the Constitution enshrined as fundamental the right to strike, I suppose they would deliberate long and focused on their undoubted transformative value; the eight-day day, paid holidays, decent wages and a long etc. have in common been achieved after endless days of stoppage and collective bargaining. Therefore, given the content of our Constitution, we must defend the role of trade unions in our society, because, as I say, they are a basic pillar for our peaceful and democratic coexistence. More precisely, we must protect them from the action of those powers that seek to weaken them. Ladies and gentlemen, repealing article 315 of the Criminal Code is necessary because our judges and courts are already comfortable with the most violent conduct in this area in article 172 of the Criminal Code. Moreover, the wording of the article we are dealing with today leaves room for an interesting and dangerous interpretation. This already happened in 2012, after the approval of the labor reform; they know it well on the popular bench. We cannot again allow the laws, instead of being used to impart justice, to be used to apply exemplary punishments that coerce freedoms that - I repeat - are constitutional. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 2008 crisis and its consequences reminded us that inequality is not a natural phenomenon, it is a profoundly political and ideological phenomenon. When inequality increased, protests grew and suddenly article 315 became useful in repressing and apprehensioning those who decided to raise their voices. There's nothing more unworthy than using the law as a weapon. For this reason, the Socialist Parliamentary Group invites you to open this parliamentary procedure on an article that in no case serves any good, an article that neither the judges nor the courts have been applying assiduously, that is disproportionate and that does not conform to our jurisprudence. It's time for us to rethink this rule together. Ladies and gentlemen, this House must protect the democratic expression of the social conflict, which we must also understand in its context. Conflicts that give rise to strikes affect very sensitive and relevant aspects of workers' lives and in these circumstances moderate behaviours, typical of a moment of normality, cannot be required. Moreover, it must be borne in mind that some excess is linked to the exercise of the right to demonstrate in an open and complex society. This is not what I say, according to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and the National Court. [[Applauds]] It is therefore absolutely anomalous that our legal system considers that the very fact that it may involve the exercise of a fundamental right also implies criminal conduct. If we apply the weighting principle, I think we will all agree that we cannot protect a generic freedom more than the exercise of a fundamental right. Moreover, the sanctions provided for in Article 315 contravene the principle of proportionality. I'll give you a practical example. The Criminal Code establishes criminal forks close to those of the article we are discussing here today for some drug trafficking or injury offences, among other examples that might put them. What kind of hostility must we feel towards the trade union movement in order not to find reasonable this proposal that we present to you today? Is it really fair to put a person in jail for a crime of coercion in a strike context? Would it not upset them that there is a specific type aggravated for coercion precisely in the context of strike? Ladies and gentlemen, this House must move away from prejudices and hostilities typical of those who do not understand democracy. Trade unionism must be an open space, with high participation, because that enriches us as a society. If we maintain rules that seek the discouragement of trade union action, we will be expelling the necessary plurality of social participation. Paradoxically, trying to repress the protest accentuates the participation of vandals, encourages the chrysping and exacerbates violence and confrontation. A free country must assume social claim as it is, driving forward. History shows us that the great achievements for the majority of society have come from the hand of the struggle of the working class, a hard and honest struggle, whose only vocation has always been universality, equality and social justice. If we look back, we see that the periods of greater prosperity have been marked by the social and political recognition of the demands of the working class. This Parliament must represent the maximum expression of democracy, but it is not the only one of these expressions. Every time a trade unionist shuts up, democracy dies. Every time a worker decides not to protest for fear of being fired, democracy dies. And every time a worker has to choose between working or caring for her family, democracy also dies. [[Applauds]] For all this, I must remind you that, precisely in democracy, the Criminal Code is a tool that protects under the principle of minimal intervention, that is, it is not a tool of repression. Remember that if freedom is not exercised in a context of security and certainty, it is not freedom, it is a privilege. A free society needs instruments to channel the protest, and this is tremendously important because, look, those are the means available to those who have no power at their disposal. We already know that the negotiation and participation of the working class is decisive in a fairer and more equal distribution of wealth. Without a doubt, the moment we live in requires us to rethink together how work, natural resources, care and wealth are distributed. Interdependence is more evident than ever. We know that the planet and our way of life will only be viable if we cooperate. That is why we must not be afraid of the expression, the demand and the participation of a society that we need more alive than ever to move forward. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, my group presents this proposal for a law recalling, however, the importance of listening to and giving a voice to trade unions in this type of reform. Defending the exercise of the right to strike and trade union freedom in all its dimensions has always been and will be a peak of the Socialist Party, because we believe that a prosperous society also passes by being just, free and equal. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Jerez Juan.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Nothing better than going back to the past to know the origin of history. Let us remember, therefore, that it was in 1995 that the government of Felipe González Márquez approved the Penal Code of Democracy, and you, the Socialist Party, seemed well; it seemed good to the communism of the time to support the adoption of that law, and then it seemed good to both of you to maintain the same criminal figure that you intend to repeal today. It should therefore be made perfectly clear that it was a socialist government, with the support of communism, that maintained until today the aggravated crime by which article 315.3 of the Criminal Code is now intended to be repealed. What turns of life! But it's not all there. When they did, they did not vote in favour of any article, but of the same article that they want to repeal today, which proposed a sentence of up to six years' imprisonment, that is, a penalty six times greater than the current one and which was greatly reduced in a Spain governed by the People's Party. We therefore do not know whether to interpret the proposal that you bring us here today as an exercise of voluntary repentance of that or an amendment to all of you. I do not deny you that you are in the right to propose the repeal of this article, which you are, but if you are so upset you could have done so when you ruled and did not. Even in 2010, when a reform of one hundred and fifty articles of the Criminal Code was passed, you kept this criminal type without complexities, which now seems to you so criminal and so diabolical. In any case, let's focus on the issue. The first thing we need to do to address this debate is to ask ourselves: what does Article 315(3) protect? The question is simple, so is the answer. Article 315.3 protects a fundamental right, the right we all have to be able to work and also to be able to work in peace. Well, if the adoption of the fundamental right to work lies in this precept, the derogation which is now intended to leave the rights of workers without criminal protection, the right of any person to work without being disturbed in that exercise, the right to work without being intimidated in his or her working day and the right not to be assaulted in his or her job by anyone other than the legitimate protest or strike day in which the aggressor participates. Therefore, one of the questions we should irreparably ask ourselves is how workers who are threatened by the most radical version of the strikers will be protected from now on, how a worker will feel protected today if Article 315.3 of the Criminal Code is repealed. Ladies and gentlemen, you will agree if I tell you that, in a country of rights and freedoms, the freedom to decide for those who do not want to join, who do not want to participate or who do not want to join a strike or protest must always be respected at all times. And they will agree with me if I tell them that the State, as guarantor of public freedoms, must equip them and grant them instruments through which the exercise of that fundamental right to work and, in addition, to work in peace is protected and guaranteed. What the State should not do is abandon the worker in the most absolute solitude and allow violence, coercion or intimidation actions to be left unanswered in the framework of a strike day in which information groups, converted into coercive groups, participate, which force the worker to join its claim cause. In any case, and as I said, the right to strike allows the worker to join, but also allows him not to do so; it also gives him that possibility, not to do so. And that freedom not to join the strike, does not prevent the strikers from organizing themselves into pickets to inform; for that, to inform. In fact, Royal Decree 17/1977 itself provides for this when it states that - and I open quotes - 'Workers on strike will be able to advertise it peacefully and carry out collection of funds without any coercion.' I repeat, without any coercion. Thus, the striker is allowed to inform his colleagues about the strike day in order to achieve more success in his call, but what he cannot do is to force them to continue it as well, as it would result in a violation of the rights of the strikers not to support it. And this is precisely where the specific coercions of article 315.3 of the Criminal Code, which punishes those acting in groups or acting individually, are integrated, but according to others, they force others to start or continue a strike. Having said that, and to the thread of what part of the doctrine says, we might think that this is a speciality of the right to strike and that only this punitive reaction of our order occurs in the case of the right to strike. It's not like that. And that is not the case, because in our criminal law there are comparable rules. When the Spanish Constitution recognizes citizens' freedoms, it does so also by admitting a negative sphere of these freedoms, which excludes any obligation in the positive exercise of these freedoms. And I will refer precisely to one of those freedoms, the right to religious freedom set out in article 16 of the Constitution. This right to religious freedom includes the right not to profess any religion and, for this reason, the Criminal Code also punishes those who, through violence, intimidation, force or any other unlawful pressure, force others to participate in or participate in acts of worship or rites; exactly the same. Therefore, we have to conclude, we have to ask ourselves why there is no contrasting difference so that the precept on labour coercion must be repealed and the same is not done, exactly the same, with rules of such composition and which also affect fundamental freedoms, such as the exercise of religious freedom. If all these arguments alone should already be sufficient to vote against this initiative, there are also other different ones, and we have warned this not rarely during the last debates in which this initiative has been reproduced. The repeal that you are pursuing so much could imply an opposite result - I don't know if this has been raised by you -, a result that is contrary to what you are seeking. I say this because article 315.3 of the Criminal Code is a special rule that punishes specific, specific coercion in the field of strikes, while article 172 punishes generic coercion. And what does this mean? This means that the action of coercing others to start or continue a strike, if not specifically punished under 315.3, will be punished under article 172. Therefore, if you continue along the path of repeal, you run the risk of betting for hardening the penalties, and this is a fact. You can do the demagogy that you want, much, more, or less; you can make the noise that you want, but the truth is that the repeal would immediately bring the hardening of the penalty to apply to the people who performed that behavior, and you, the proponents, know it. In previous debates they have recognized it, they have recognized precisely what I am saying, convinced that such conduct under article 315 of the Criminal Code would never go unpunished even though article 315 was repealed. The fact that the promoter of this repeal, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, recognizes that the strike exercise, and in particular the repeal of Article 315, will not go unpunished makes this initiative one more staging, one more performance. As long as we go back to 2017, it is enough to resort to the Journal of Sessions to confirm that this proposal that you bring us here today does not serve the purpose that you are pursuing, because the most authoritative doctrine confirms for itself that this derogation will not decriminalize absolutely anything that you intend to decriminalize here today. Look, I was saying relatively recently, in 2017, Mr Simancas - and I open quotes -: The logical thing would have been to expect a more complete, more well-founded initiative that the unions were finalizing and that they delivered to us this very morning, and the correct thing would have been to include the amendment of Article 172 together with the repeal of the 315 because only in this way would we really avoid the strikers going to jail unjustly. Mr. Simancas said. So, what's out of here? First, that what they bring us here is not a logical proposal, according to the words of Mr Simancas. Secondly, what they bring here is an incomplete proposal, which does not reach the end pursued, according to the words of Mr Simancas. Third, they do not heed what the unions are telling them, they do not fully respond to their requests under 172 of the Criminal Code. And four, the most paradoxical of all - the most paradoxical of all - is that despite you, despite the repeal that you claim today, the strikers will be able to continue to go to jail for a crime of coercion. Therefore, what we have to ask ourselves here today is what you have generated with this debate. What? Noise, smoke, fog, nothing. You have to speak plainly to people once and for all; do not deceive workers with reforms that are unprotective and that do not effectively serve the purpose that you pursue. Do not use the trade unions' names in vain to legitimise your own mistakes and tell them the truth about this proposal, even if they have to be red once. Do not confuse society any more, which at this time of bleakness and confusion needs confidence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u52	Mr. Jerez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u53	He needs certainty. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u54	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. In turn, Mrs Fernández Benitez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with what you have said: that here the Socialist Group is making a lot of noise on this subject. I have only talked about the Spanish Constitution and a constitutional right. [[Applauds]] If you consider that noise... On the other hand, I would also like to say that I am glad that you read Mr Simancas' speech in the past; I also did so, I also read that of the speaker by her parliamentary group in which, among other things, I invited Mr Alberto Rodríguez to take a Coca-Cola. So I'm glad you read Rafa Simancas' speech, because of course it was much more nutritious from any point of view, political, intellectual, etc. In any case, I would ask you on behalf of my group to be sensitive to three fundamental ideas and it is that we cannot consider as valid an article that punishes the exercise of a fundamental right more harshly than the exercise of a general freedom. I think we should all agree on that. Moreover, a crime of specific coercion for the right to strike is openly repressive and therefore goes against our constitutional framework. Therefore, I believe that by many traps the lonely one that you want to do this is so. I also ask you to be sensitive to a social majority that even in such difficult times as those we live has remained loyal and dialogueal. This is well known by the Minister of Labour. I am talking to you about our unions which, by the way, have asked us for this reform to be active and passive. I also ask you to abandon the hostility and prejudices you have towards the protest, because protest is a fundamental pillar for the proper functioning of democracy, although you do not seem to like it very much. I invite you to vote in favour of this consideration because in the parliamentary procedure we will have time to debate, to talk about 172 and everything you consider. For everything else, do not worry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are already used to you taking away all social progress; you will join in the future. The Socialist Party always awaits you in social improvements and, at best, you are late. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Jerez Juan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u57	Thank you, Madam President. We have come here to talk about workers' rights and the right to work as a fundamental right and as an inalienable right, and we have not called, precisely, to reinforce those rights, which we should have done, but to repeal Article 315.3, a right which, once eliminated, will place the worker in a more vulnerable space. I assure you that with the repeal of this right we will not advance anything, absolutely nothing and I have already explained it in my first speech. If we are here it is to advance always and never back, because that is our obligation, because for that they have chosen us and for that they pay us, to give the best of us in the protection of the rights of others. The majority of parliamentary groups today have signed a great deal of agreement in this House, a historic agreement that we are proud of and in which many Spaniards had their attention fixed; an agreement that must ensure the sustainability and sustainability of the public pension system. Well, what cannot be done is that in the morning we strengthen the rights and future expectations of all workers in this country and in the afternoon we weaken the protection of workers in their workplaces with the repeal of Article 315.3. It is not possible that in such a short time we will do things so different and so different in this House. This isn't what they're asking us out there. The data from the EPA bring us back to reality; the data from the EPA place our country at an unemployment rate of 16.26%, a figure close to 3,800,000 unemployed, half a million more people than exactly a year ago. According to the International Monetary Fund - and listen to this - in the field of work Spain is not going to return to the level of pre-pandemic unemployment until the year 2026; this is 2020. Therefore, what worries the Spaniards most is not the fundamental right to strike, which they have guaranteed, because they have it, but what worries the Spaniards today is the right to work, which they do not have guaranteed. As I told you before, the Spaniards are worried about getting back the lost job, they are worried about getting their first job and they are worried that the head of the family will not fire him tomorrow. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] That's what the Spaniards are worried about today. [[Applauds]] For this very reason I will not tire of claiming the measures that my party took in one of the most complex moments of this country, I will not tire of claiming a labor reform that in 2018 created nearly 2 million jobs. I assure you that no one has stopped me on the street to ask me how it goes with the repeal of Article 315.3 and neither have you, nor you. [[Applauds]] But I do tell you that I have been stopped on the street by people who are worried about their employment situation and also worried about their future, but today we are debating 315.3. Nothing more. That is why let us not further weaken the rights of workers, because this is precisely what you have come to do here today, to unprotect them from a right that offers them a punitive response against the person who threatens them, coerces them or assaults them in their own job. Finally - and listen to me well - if you really believe in workers' rights, do not do it again, do not sell them for a handful of votes and do not give yourself up for a plate of lentils by subscribing to Bildu, among others, such a disgusting document as this. [[Show a document]] Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u58	Thank you, Mr. Jerez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, first and foremost Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. This proposal for a law presented by the Socialist Party, which has governed more than twenty-three years in Spain, hides that a doctrine consolidated in our courts has limited to the application of article 315.3 of the Criminal Code those cases that reach a certain intensity, that is, those compulsive or intimidating force exercises on the worker who does not wish to strike. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a constitutional doctrine that considers it possible to punish coercion when faced with the apparent exercise of the right to strike and provided that threatening conduct distorts or disfigures that right by making it an obligation for workers who, for whatever reasons, do not want to strike. I shall vote against the repeal of this precept in defence of precisely the freedom and right to strike, which can never, ever, ever become a mandate to exercise it, let alone impose it or force it through violence such as those punished by this type, in which thugs sacrifice the legitimate and free use of a fundamental right, essential in any decent democracy, such as that of workers not to strike or not to be on strike. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is, I almost got a syncope coming out here on Tuesday afternoon and seeing a government minister. It's all new and I think it's worth commenting on. [[Applauds]] At the moment, reminding the Socialist Party of something that Felipe González approved is to invite them to be more willing to repeal it, with which I do not know if it is the right one. [[Rumors]] In any case, on this issue with what I have remained - I was not here - is that in 2017 We can bring this and I understand that the Socialist Parliamentary Group voted not - as I am wrong - with those arguments. The Socialist Group is bringing it now and I understand that this time we can not do the same and will vote in favour. We are talking about 2017 and we are in 2020, two long years of socialist government. Well, this mustn't be so important. This must be like the repeal of labor reform, which serves as a wild card: if I want to deal with one, I make you sign; if I want to deal with another, I make you sign, and then I do nothing. I imagine that this is the same and I suppose it will follow the same procedure, because, if not, it is incomprehensible that they do nothing on an issue on which the two parties agree to have every Tuesday the Council of Ministers and to have the 'Official State Bulletin' at their disposal. I understand that it will not be your fundamental concern, of which I am glad in this case because, obviously, to say that a person who wants to go to work we can coerce her not to go to work I think she is not very well. There's freedom. It is good that people who want to work, work, and those who want to strike, who of course exercise an absolutely recognized right in the Constitution and for all. Therefore, giving as good as it is that you can coerce or beat someone who wants to go to work so that they don't go to work and that looks good to me obviously doesn't seem right to me. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u62	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u63	Thank you, President. Today the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings us the proposal to repeal article 315.3 of the Criminal Code. We're going to vote yes. We are in favour of repealing this article because it is in practice to defend the right to strike. Moreover, in times of COVID, in times of precariousness, in times when the employment situation of many people is complicated, the paradigm of the right to protest has to be defended and must be defended labour rights; labor and trade union rights, which, as the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has said, are systematically violated. We wanted to talk here today, for example, about a worker affiliated to the SAT union, of the Tourist Office of Granada, to which it is not admitted precisely for trade union work. [[Applauds]] So we think this proposal is very appropriate and, as we think it is so appropriate, we have three more questions. The spokesman for the PSOE spoke of the importance of guaranteeing trade union work and workers' rights. The first question is: Are you going to repeal the Law gag? Because this can bring you here by royal decree. The spokesman for the PSOE spoke of the struggle of the working class. We very much agree. The second question is: Are you going to repeal labour reform? Because they could also bring him here by royal decree. And the spokesman for the PSOE also spoke of criminal law understood as a right of minimums and guaranteeing rights and freedoms. We too very much agree with this perspective and the third question: Are you going to repeal the sedition crime? Sedition crime that during Francoism was used precisely for the repression of the workers' movement, but that has come to this day and that is one of the cornerstones of the condemnation of the prisoners of the process. To associate, organize and plant oneself when it touches is not only a collective right but is essential to advance as a community. You spoke of a trade union and socialist tradition. It's over, President. We want to remind Marcelino Camacho, who said: The right to strike is achieved by strikes; the right to assembly is achieved by gathering; the right to association, by associating, and all these attributes of freedom is only mass action that can end up imposing them. Let us hope that they will comply with the mandates of the speech that the spokesman of the PSOE brings us today. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u64	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are going to vote in favour of this initiative, we were going to do it before, but we are going to do it more correctly after listening to the representative of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerez. I believe that an initiative that proposes to repeal an aspect that is harmful to women workers is good news. Moreover, repealing it is a custom to be taken in this Congress is good news. A few years ago it was said that resigning was not a Russian name for those who had certain reluctance to resign from their jobs. For I believe that repealing it would also not have to become a Russian name, it would have to be a practice of this government to restore the rights and dignity of the working class. Now with this article and let us hope that in not long with everyone, absolutely with all the harmful aspects of labour reform. He said that I was going to support this initiative more rightly after listening to the representative of the People's Party because I believe that Mr Jerez has pointed out some issues on which it is worth stopping. He said that what this article stood for in an explanation from what from his point of view this article supposes, 315.3. He said the right to be able to work. Well, it is this article that guarantees the right to work in a state with 26% unemployment and 3 800 000 unemployed and, as you have pointed out, its futility is obvious, with which the best thing can be done is overthrown. To go further, the Lord of the People's Group said that this article had a special and specific characteristic directed especially against what has historically, culturally and traditionally been called information pickets. That is also what we are extremely concerned about. And I would say more, because, in any case, I would also make it clear to you. We have no doubt, we are with those who defend the right to work, but every day; we are with those who defend so much the right to decent work, every day, who are willing to sacrifice a working day and even the viability of their job to strike and we are with them always, with pickets, in front of squirrels and in front of those who put their personal and particular interest, when not forced, in the collective interest in having decent jobs for all and for all. But he said more, as he pointed out, that no one has stopped him on the street to ask him how the regulation of article 315.3 is going and perhaps it is true, perhaps no one has stopped him. That alone means - I will clarify it because it is a purely statistical question, because I think there are more than 48 million Spaniards - is that you, in your transit through the streets of this country, which I understand will be limited by this from confinement, have not met any of the three hundred workers who have been threatened with more than 120 years in prison. [[Applauds]] It will have to do with where each one goes and with which places each one frequents. Maybe he's in other cocktails and he doesn't go down the streets. Just as you weren't in Pontevedra when some workers were asking for three years in jail for throwing paint into a hotel pool. You were probably not in Gijón either when some Arcelor workers were asked for five years to form an information picket. Surely you were not with the young people of Iruña when for a strike in 2012 they were asked 18 months in prison and forced to pay 570 euros each. Nor was he, surely, when the LAB delegate in Nafarroa was sentenced to twenty-one months in prison for a picketing action in a restaurant, where they had the whim or generosity, who, according to the point of view, knows how to pay for the work with pizzas, that of unloading specifically. And I am convinced that she has also not been with the workers of Huerta de Peralta, who had to endure being asked for two and a half years of imprisonment and fines of 2000 euros and, in addition, threatened with expulsion from the national territory for the termination of her residence permit for a period of five years. If I had been with any of them or with any of them, I would understand why this article should be repealed. If, on the contrary, you have not been with any of them, it is logical that you would like this article. It points out the initiative, in its original wording, that this is an unprecedented attack. I wouldn't dare go that far. I believe that attacks on the working class have been many for a long time. I believe that this is an important attack, because it is an attack directed against the ability of trade unions to exert pressure, with a legitimate and democratic instrument such as that of the right to strike, but it is no less an attack than that of the very existence of labour reform, as you, on your own initiative, well recognize when you say that all the harmful aspects must be removed. I would encourage them, for example, to amend the current legislation that monitors EREs, because, perhaps, with judicial follow-up, they would not be made fraudulent EREs like those that are made. I would also like to see an end to the ultra-activity in the agreements, so that employers do not have a bargaining, extortion or pressure base like the one they have at the sectoral tables. Because it's ridiculous to talk about a balance between workers and entrepreneurs when all power lies in the hands of entrepreneurs. But, above all and fundamentally, we will support it because it points out something that is important, and that is that this is not an isolated measure, it is a thought-out measure, which has to do with neocon logic, neoliberal logic, the logic of weakening the trade union movement. Because you know, as we and we know, that the trade union movement is fundamental for workers to have a greater capacity for pressure and impact on policies directed at them and for them to be in their favour and not against them and them. We believe that with these initiatives what you seek is to destabilise, to further unbalance the fragile, if any, balance; otherwise, to strengthen the entrepreneurial position to humiliate and subject the workers. And much more needs to be done, as I pointed out to you, because if we are in this logic of repealing what constitutes attacks on the rights of workers, why do we not also monitor minimum services in strikes? why does the public authorities not take a more obvious role of action than it has so far to monitor the degree of compliance and demand for minimum services? Because also sometimes the public institution is committing these abuses that we say entrepreneurs do; there is nothing more to see than the complaints that have occurred in the Osakidetza, the Basque Health Service, or in Hezkuntza, in the Basque and Navarra educational community, when they have had strikes and have denounced; or, without going any further, there is nothing more to see the stowers and stowers of Bizkaia, of the port of Bilbao, which today are carrying out a strike, the longest for more than three decades, and which are supporting minimum services of 100 percent; as it sounds, 100 percent. Surely, this will also have to be reviewed. In conclusion, I do believe, as I say, that this article must be repealed, but that we must go further, although I agree with what it puts on the initiative, because it is not valid for only final judgments to be reviewed and annulled, in their case, but for each and every worker who has endured this infamy of law against workers and against trade unionism. I'm done. In this political context that we are living in, where labour conflicts are likely to intensify, it is likely that we will have to choose again. We will choose to be with the workers, who have nothing to lose, except their chains, because those, as Karl Marx said, have a whole world to win. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u67	Thank you very much, President. We are considering the repeal of article 315.3 of the Criminal Code in order to decriminalize the special type of coercion in which the components of so-called pickets of information and extension of strikes may be involved in respect of those workers who do not want to secondary or continue them, without the intention of saying with this reform of the Criminal Code that the coercion is unpunished, but simply that it ceases to have a special type and that, if it occurs, the general type of 172 is applied to them, as has already been said, with a lower penalty, at least apparently, and only in cases in which a fundamental right is not prevented, since, if it is prevented, the penalties are higher, and in cases where there is only one victim, because, if there are several coerced workers, so many crimes would be assessed and affected, with the consequent competitions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a far-reaching reform of the so-called criminal labour law, which always has a predominantly collective component and which, in the case of the coercion to which we refer, is reflected in the fact that, although there are several victims of the same coercion, only one crime is recognized and it is also reflected in the fact that the penalty for coercion in the criminal labour law is higher than that of the general type, unless, with these of the general type, the exercise, as I said, of a fundamental right, in which case the penalty is higher, that is, instead of three years, of the special type, would be increased to four and a half years, of the general type of 172. And the question that this raises is whether to coerce a strike to a worker or several who do not want it is to affect their fundamental right to strike in its negative content not to do it or to prevent their right to work, which, despite what is said from this rostrum, is not a fundamental right, because of its location in article 35 of the Constitution, because the penalty is substantially different in one case than in the other. With all this, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make it clear that it is perhaps not such a simple matter to delete Article 315 and apply Article 172 in order to reduce the penalty for those who incur coercion to force those who do not want to go on strike. Even, as has been shown, a boomeran effect can occur. In any case, the fact is that the 315 has always been surrounded by controversy, since its wording in the 1995 Criminal Code, as in its subsequent amendment in 2015, when the types were tempered, and in particular with regard to the penalty of the coercion in which members of the strike extension pickets may incur. As we have already had the opportunity to express in this plenary in past legislatures, the fundamental problem is whether a criminal type of coercion relating to pickets of information and extension should be established, given the reality of how it is applied by the criminal courts, in an individualized trial of the strict meaning of the coercion of pickets, without properly considering that the activity of pickets for the promotion of the strike is also part of the fundamental right to strike according to the Constitutional Court and that the expansive or rigid interpretation of the coercion isolated from the context of the exercise of the fundamental right exercised by pickets is contrary to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court that it can discourage and deter its exercise, even if the Court itself comes to question the application of criminal rates when the excesses in the exercise of fundamental rights do not disfigure or distort them by the said discouraging effect. A strike involves, in short, the play of forms in conflict. It is a measure of pressure and it brings in itself elements of coercion in a social sense, as it seeks to extend the strike in the face of the refusal of some workers to support it by the obvious sacrifices that entail by the wage discount and suspension of the contract of employment, which correlatively leads to the burning or heating up of pickets, when the success of the strike is instrumental for collective bargaining, whose improvements will also benefit those who do not want to sacrifice themselves for the death of the binding force of the conventions, according to 37.1 of the Constitution. It should also be borne in mind that the extension of the strike is often faced with pressure mechanisms, also logical, from the company to disincentive it, which are often not considered by criminal courts. As the Attorney General, Mr Torres-Dulce, has already said in a synthetic way - and I have made it clear in this plenary - at the time with regard to 315.3 quite rightly, there is a problem of devalue of reprimanded conduct and a disproportion over the protected legal good. Ladies and gentlemen, for our part and for all that we have said, we believe that a parliamentary reflection should be opened, enriched by the appearance of experts and the parties involved, in which criminal legislation is sought and found appropriate to the reality that is intended to be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u69	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, minister. Before I begin, I would like to address briefly but sincerely to all the Spaniards who are directly suffering the second wave of the pandemic to convey to them all our strength and to accompany all those who have lost a loved one in this terrible pandemic. They're not alone. With a million infected Spaniards and the scandalous figure of almost 700 compatriots killed last week, in this Chamber today more than ever we should talk about possible solutions to this catastrophe. But, no, we are talking about other issues that, although important, such as this, are far from the real problems of the Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen, let us serve the people and talk about what is important. But I also know that there are many people interested in this initiative. That is why I would like to clarify some matters. Firstly, that what is discussed here is not the repeal of the Citizens' Security Act or a comprehensive reform of the Criminal Code, but only the repeal of a paragraph of a specific article of the Criminal Code concerning the coercive action of pickets in strikes, we are talking about 315.3 of the Criminal Code. This initiative would be more appropriate to Podemos - in fact, it has already been - than to the Socialist Group, as it is drafted and proposed, but we take it seriously. The Socialist Party wants to decriminalize a conduct previously defined in our Penal Code. It is good to read the provision in question, which is set out in Title XV of Book II of the Criminal Code, which states that it criminalizes the rights of workers. Leo: 'Whoever acts in a group or individually, but according to others, coerces other people to start or continue a strike shall be punished by imprisonment of one year and nine months up to three years or by a fine of eighteen months to twenty-four months'. For the people to understand, what the Socialist Group wants, nothing less than the majority party of the current government, is that the Penal Code has nothing to say or does a generic type when the law of the jungle prevails on the strike and even the workers, whatever their situation, can be forced to back up this right to strike and stop working even if they need it. I would like to remind both the Socialist Party and the Government as a whole that the right to strike is a right, not an obligation. This House should be able to hold adult debates, with the certainty that they deserve. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the collision of two rights, that of supporting a strike and that of going to work freely. There are no good or bad here, there are citizens with rights and obligations. We can agree, with nuances, on the reduction of penalties for certain acts without violence carried out in the course of a strike, but we cannot allow decriminalization of conduct that is subject to criminal punishment. That is to say, you are asking us today that the generic crime of coercion in 172 is enough to punish violent attitudes that invade the right of the Spaniards to access their jobs. I will remind you, at this point, that the purpose of criminal law is to act as the last ratio when constitutionally recognized rights are violated, and the right to work is a constitutional right. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, are also pushing for a review of final judgments already handed down pursuant to this provision. I know that the Socialist Group, the De Podemos and the majority of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats like to wear the robe of judges or to take it away even from those who already have it, especially in order to review judgments that they do not like, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is not serious. We are going to oppose this revisionist character, which also intends to delegitimize the judiciary. In the strike process, most workers who exercise this constitutionally recognized right do so peacefully. But it is true that the right to strike remains a right, not an obligation. This right is recognized in Article 28 of our Magna Charter. If the right to strike is a fundamental right, socialists, how are you going to protect those who do not want to exercise it? Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about the real world; I come from it. The truth is that there are times - the least, fortunately - when some pickets come to exercise coercion or even violence, and come to attack those workers who do not want to exercise that right. It is on those occasions when we as national police have also intervened, we act to guarantee the legitimate rights of workers. As I have seen the coercion, threats and aggressions in the field of strike celebrations, I am aware of what you claim with the repeal of this precept. You want the injury of constitutional rights to go through a minor quarrel or dispute, bringing many workers closer to seeing this right as an obligation. It's not nonsense. In addition, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you will know, like me, the situations that have occurred, for example, in Catalonia, where there have been strikes that are not such, but ideological stops; ideological stops not supported, of course, by workers who do not support the separatist theses. Do you really believe that organized coercion, even when it is against the ideas of certain workers, does not deserve the arbitrariness of the Penal Code? If going to work is not a constitutional right or having freedom of opinion either, then I wonder what a constitutional right is for you. In the midst of the pandemic, with more than sixty thousand Spaniards falling and in the midst of the resurgence that is confining Spain to the middle, they proudly present a legislative initiative to decriminalize behaviors that seriously violate the fundamental right to strike. If we had its quota, which unfortunately we do not have, we would use it to improve health, education, to create a standard of health and economic emergency that would treat this pandemic and save lives and jobs, and not to restrict fundamental rights. In fact, while you were complaining, and rightly so, about the waste of time on the motion of censure and you were throwing the stuff at your head, we managed in the Senate to get both you and the People's Group to sign and vote in favour of an independent audit for the management of the pandemic. Usefulness, ladies and gentlemen. I'm done. The short-term opportunity of this proposal is not the only thing that will make us vote against: we do not agree with the substance of the matter either, because we do not share in any way that it is diluted or posed as a minor issue as serious rights as the constitutional right to go to work and the right to strike. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to strike is equally fundamental for those who decide to exercise it as for those who decide not to exercise it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u70	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 315 of the Criminal Code was introduced in 1976 into the 1973 Code with the declared intention of dealing with the growing aggressive activity of organized groups that called themselves pickets of strike break, i.e. they sought to intimidate the still clandestine trade union organizations, the most active workers, so as not to organize strikes. Despite the subsequent adoption of the Constitution and the Organic Act on Freedom of Association, the right to strike continues to be regulated by a pre-constitutional rule of 1977 and the 1995 Democratic Penal Code also incomprehensiblely maintained the crime of organizing pickets. The BNG has always defended the need for the repeal of this article, which was the result of legislation that did not recognize the free exercise of fundamental rights such as the right to strike. Thus, in 2014 he brought to this House a proposal for a law for its repeal and was also one of the points he included in the investiture agreement. It is a pity that they have not yet brought about the repeal of the labour reform or of the law, which are also in that agreement, and we hope that they will do so as soon as possible. In short, a precept that has been repeatedly used in the repression of workers exercising the legitimate right to strike in order to defend their no less legitimate interests cannot continue to apply. It is not compatible with a framework of labour and trade union rights and freedoms...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. Your time's up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Today - many examples can be given - we all see the eight-hour working day as a normal, practically irrefutable thing. The eight-hour day of work was achieved in Spain, in addition to pioneering, in a very hard historical strike, the Huelga de la Canadien, in Barcelona, in 1919, led by the National Confederation of Labour and, among others, by Salvador Seguí, El noi del sugar. That's what strikes are for. No one strikes on whim. People strike because they win rights, because they free life time, but also because they introduced and introduced democracy into the workplace. You will tell me that it is a hundred years ago but that today the world has changed a great deal. There is, for example, the women's football strike, with which in November last year they won the right to a minimum wage, or this summer's MIR strike in the Madrid Community, with which they won the right to a day of rest after the guards to take better care of us all. Arrived here, many may say: Strikes well, but my freedom begins where the other one ends and everyone who decides whether to strike or not. I ask you - let's get serious -: Do people in the workplace really decide freely whether they can unionize or not, whether they can strike or not? Where do the coercions, the daily permanent coercions come from? I give you some examples: 'If you strike, don't bother coming tomorrow.' 'There's no thing for strikes. If you don't want to work, I have three hundred out there who would do it for half the money.' 'We don't want any trouble here. I thought about you at the union. Faced with these daily threats, of every day, silent, that do not come out in the media, that no one names in the rostrum, there is actually only one recipe, and the only recipe for people is to get together, also in pickets. You did not do the reform that criminalized pickets, which has had more than three hundred trade unionists prosecuted, to defend the freedom of individuals, but to set the conditions for people to have to lower their heads and swallow everything up for a wage devaluation. I have said it many times: where there is fear there is no freedom. That is why now, if hard times come, we must repeal this article, but also the entire Law gags. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u74	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alonso-Cuevillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a sick man bleeding out and you propose that we put on a stretcher. We have a patient burning himself for taking too much time facing the sun and you're trying to put a little bit of white dust on him so he'll have a better face. You know or should know that the repeal of article 315 of the Criminal Code is a purely cosmetic operation, without any real effectiveness, because as long as the basic type of article 172 remains, any court may continue to sentence for coercion exactly with the same penalties of up to three years. It is therefore a cosmetic reform of very little effectiveness, when we suffer from a judicial power, courts, many - few or many are the same, too many in any case - with interpretations contrary to human rights. If you want to push forward progressive policies, it is not enough to wear progressive makeup. Do it, you have enough majority. Promote a comprehensive reform of the Spanish judicial system. Start by repealing those authoritarian laws passed under the absolute majority of the People's Party. Start with the law on gags, with the reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which gave exorbitant powers of execution to the Constitutional Court. If we go to the Penal Code, bring us here the repeal of the permanent, reviewable prison, of that covert life sentence, that is a necessary reform. Or be braver already - now they have it very well, after the recent ruling of the National Court, which has shown that the events that took place in Catalonia in 2017 could have another reading, a reading according to fundamental rights - and bring us here a reform of the misappropriation without appropriation - leave it as it was before 2015, they already have for that to the Court of Auditors, to demand the accounting responsibilities to take place - and bring us also a repeal of the sedition, because there are already other criminal types that sufficiently protect public order. They have sufficient absolute majority and know that they will have it if they drive all these regeneration programmes. They don't dress up as progressives. If you want to be progressive, carry out progressive policies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u76	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u77	Good afternoon. I propose to Congresswoman Andrea Fernández an exercise, which changes the subject of her non-law proposal and, instead of making trade unionists, say independent Republican political dissidents, and you will see that she has exactly the same speech. That said and also responding to the deputy of the People's Party, who said that he was not stopped on the street for abrogating the 315.3, I am a trade unionist, I have been an information picket, my friends are information pickets, and at the moment there are still more than 250 trade unionists waiting for a sentence for having made information pickets in the strikes of 2010 and 2012. For us it is an important issue, apart from the fact that, with regard to the right to strike, there is no significant social progress here or anywhere that has been achieved without this type of procedure, none. For this very reason, because I have friends and colleagues who have been waiting for a sentence for more than eight years - some friend was at my side and I can assure you that from violent nothing and is still waiting for a sentence - I submitted to the Commission my first proposal no law nothing more and nothing less than in 2016, and I am still waiting, but, as thousands of GNP, it is in the file, we do not know where. It was already voted at that time and it was won by the representation of the people, but we still hope it will arrive. Today we would have liked, precisely because there are more than 250 trade unionists accused, that it was in the form of a royal decree-law, because it is urgent, like the Law gags, because these people have the anguish of not knowing what is going to happen with their judgment. We call for the repeal of this article of the Criminal Code because it was intended to combat organized workers. As I said, we have already protested against these issues in Catalonia before October 2017 and their brutal repression. It is not a matter of opportunism, but of democratic values, a further demonstration of the authoritarian drift of this state. But let's get to the point. On trade union repression, from the outset and as always, we made ourselves available to all trade union organizations once we learned of the existence of more than three hundred accused thanks to the International Commission in defense of the 300 and, in particular, the Committee for the Alliance of Workers and Peoples. Therefore, it will not be a surprise that today we support the repeal of article 315.3 of the Criminal Code, and we will do so because in a court refined in the hands of the prosecutor's office in the last general strike, the one of 2012, it became an article against freedom, against the right to strike and was used to frighten and tie hands and feet to organized workers in defense of their claims. It wasn't casual, it was the first thing they did when the right came to power. Why? Because there was labor reform, pension reform, a whole brutal attack, and they had to take very repressive measures, such as the Law bites and resurrect this article 315.3, which before was not used, was almost forty years without anyone using it. Article 315, as the article regulating rebellion and sedition, are interpretable and interpreted. Now, they always fall on the same side, by chance, and prosecute those who are to me the best people in this society, those who fight to improve it, to teach them a lesson and create fear and panic in these people. For this purpose article 315.3 was resurrected. I ask the right-wing gentlemen: Is there any article similar to 315.3 for corporate coercion, ad hoc for the issue of strike? I don't think so. Is there any article in the Criminal Code that is intended to criminalise business pickets that exist - few, but exist -? For example, if you come back tomorrow, you run out of contract, does your family work here, too? Is there an ad hoc article for business pickets? I don't think so. That's why it's an anachronism. How many defendants were criminally charged as business pickets in the 2010 and 2012 strikes? I answer: None, zero; more than three hundred on the workers' side. As I said before, finally comes this request of the trade union movement in the form of a bill, although we would have liked it to be in the form of a royal decree-law. We hope that shortly, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you will be brave and bring us an amnesty law that will redress injustice against Catalan Republican independence. Only with justice can there be social peace, only with justice can there be democracy. Dissidence must not be fought with these resources, it must be fought here, with arguments, in the ballot boxes. What am I going to explain to them? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u78	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Rights and coercion: I think it's a privilege to be able to talk about this. It was years to see how little by little they were taking things away from us. Rights that seemed sacred and that fought in their moment the pure ones, as we affectionately called them in the curry, were disappearing. Bubble blows. A few first months of shock, corporate bankruptcy and start cutting. The scissors are sharp; we check it in our own meats. We learned from the news that they are preparing a hatchet for the Workers' Statute. We look for information on the Internet, ask our union, study the proposal in our free time and confirm the worst wishes: it is even worse than what we are told. Everyone has to find out about this in the factory. The more precarious the brown will be. Let's go get the locker room when the shifts are over, get the workshops. As soon as people know the content of the cuts that they want to impose on us, it does not fail, always the same sentence: this we cannot allow, what do the scoundrels think these? We prepare the assembly, no one can stay out; this affects us all. We talk to the companions of the dining room, of cleaning, with the pipers, welders, firemen, electricians, with the people of the laboratory, of the offices, of the dock, that there is no one left without knowing and, of course, the blackmails and threats begin. How is that contained in the Penal Code in its damned article 315.3? Ah, yes!, coercion. For that, coercion, but contrary to what the TV stations and the Tertullians say, exactly the opposite: as you go to the assembly, you are going to get in trouble; I don't pay you to think, I pay you to work; those of the contracts have nothing to do with this, you can't go; remember that next month you run out of contract... and it could be like this for hours and hours. It didn't work, the assemblies were a success. We knew that we were playing the bread we brought home and we were going to defend it, as the pure ones did in their day. We're clear, they leave us no choice. We collectively decided to convene a concentration on the shift shift: at six o'clock in the morning all God at the factory door. We make posters, press releases, pamphlets; we turn to distribute them tomorrow, evening and evening. We set up a multi-meter sign because the smell tells us that the next morning we're going to be many. The day comes with that sense of dignity in the body that only one has when there is a general strike. It's not six yet and we're already hundreds of compañeros and compañeras at the factory door. Unfortunately, it faces several "furgonas" full of coercion; coercion with helmet and fuck, and, most seriously, with clear orders to use them without contemplation. The already famous scream 'here they are, these are, the pickets of the pattern'. For many companions it is the first mobilization of their lives and ask unbelievers, but they won't hit us, will they? We're workers and we're doing nothing wrong. The compulsions follow every machine, as in the previous days: if you don't come to work tomorrow you don't bother to appear in the past either. The heads of human resources, behind the windows, controlling who participates in the picket and who does not. Paradoxically, unlike the lies that television was throwing up at that time, a few employees, very few, decide to go to work and go through the picket without anyone touching a hair. Some even, I suppose, as a psychological defense against the infinite shame that makes it eskil, the testicles are grasped while challenging their comrades in the picket and neither so, nor in those circumstances, did anything happen. Quite the opposite, exactly the opposite of what they count. The effectiveness of a strike - those we have been well aware of - does not depend on the intensity of the picket, depends on the previous work of organization and awareness with the companions, and in our case it was quite a success, no doubt. But it was the same, the script was written previously: cocks, loads, wounds, races. We get news that they're also loading at other points on the island. The scene is repeated throughout the country and the thing did not end there, of course: fines, trials, persecutions, arbitrary arrests, injuries and everything to defend our rights. Article 28.2 of the Spanish Constitution - Fundamental Rights and Duties -: 'The right to strike of workers is recognized for the defence of their interests'. Joe, it's not so bad that he puts that, that if he gets to put something else... In the same year, more mobilizations and even another general strike were called. Are not all the facts described coercion? How many people at that time and in the future prevented the free right to union, assembly and demonstration of these coercions, this fear generated? Why does the Criminal Code punish the opposite? Can anyone here deny the evidence that section 315.3 does not seek to protect those who decide not to strike, but seeks to punish precisely those who do? Can anyone deny this evidence? This is not a fictitious parliamentary intervention, I hope; this is a chronicle with hairs and signs of what happened to me and my colleagues at the workplace. [[Applauds]] I consider it important to tell it here and to be recorded in the Journal of Sessions, because as the feminist movement says: what is not told, does not exist. And this is a small privilege that a worker has in the Congressional rostrum. I know that when you get caught for stealing millions of public money, you don't put the shackles on, you don't beat or break anything, but the working people don't have that kind of luck. In this country, unfortunately, it's not the same as a corrupt man stealing a worker fighting. That is why I believe it is time to repeal the article of the Criminal Code and not further criminalize the right to strike. For a simple reason - and I finish - it is the most powerful and often the only tool that working people have to assert their rights and live decently. Thank you very much. [[Applause from several ladies and gentlemen on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u80	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Heras Fernández has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin my intervention by showing our full support for the medical strike that is taking place today. From the VOX Parliamentary Group we ask for a 20% salary increase for these professionals in the reconstruction programme. From here I express to you on behalf of my group our total understanding and solidarity. [[Applauds]] On the initiative in question, the Socialist Group is bringing to this House today the repeal of a specific type of coercion crime, namely the one known as a violent picket. That is to say, the Socialist Party intends to allow a group of violent people, usually grateful stomachs of the subsidized unions, to totally impunity, to prevent workers and self-employed people by coercion to decide freely whether they want to work. The Royal Decree-Law of 1977, which regulates the right to strike, provides that the freedom of work of workers who do not wish to join the strike will be respected and that workers on strike will be able to advertise it peacefully and without any coercion. You say that in most cases the facts cannot be taken into account as violent or coercive. False, because this guy is consumed with the result of coercion. - I don't know which lawyer would have advised you. In short, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party wants coercion, with at least force in things, intimidation or violence intentionally exercised - because it is a type that demands dolo - against the personal freedom of workers not to be penalized. The Spanish Socialist Workers Party wants to unprotect the worker, it is permissive with whom it wishes to prevent the workers from working. What an irony, isn't it? They have lost the O of worker of their acronyms just as they lost the E of Spanish. [[Applauds]] But we are not surprised, for months decreed the closure of businesses, small shops that they stifle preventing them from working, such as our hospitality and tourism sector - well, the president of the Balearic Government is allowed to stand by until two o'clock in the morning in violation of their own restrictions - even with the new, shameful and unconstitutional state of emergency, which involves a real kidnapping of the Spanish citizens, who want to extend nothing less than six months without parliamentary control, with the support of the parties that want to destroy Spain - although I think the PP is still thinking about it - and that it intends to force the shops to close and to seize the most absolute ruin. Let no one think that there are health reasons for this. Night-time curfew? Do Chinese viruses understand timetables? Which expert committee signs such reports? Ladies and gentlemen, you have lost your good judgment. All these are actions aimed solely and intentionally at preventing the right to work and activity and thus destroying the national economy in order, in the midst of chaos, to impose its chavista measures, mortifying citizens' demonstrations, as reflected in the royal decree of the new state of emergency. [[Applauds]] No one in all these years has tried to ban more demonstrations than you in just seven months. What a hypocrisy yours! We are faced with a new step to your dictatorship. The Spanish people do not resign to the ruin, they will continue to raise blinds every morning, fighting to bring the bread to their home. And now, again, it is attacked with this latest political barbarity that is to allow trade unions - subsidized, mafia and corrupt at the service of the political left - to prevent them from working through violent coercion. You claim that the crime that punishes those who prevent by coercion others work does not respond to the predictions of our constitutional system. Do I really have to remind you that Article 35 of our Constitution and the international treaties signed by Spain establish the right to work in its article? You, who are so defenders of the Constitution and of human rights? [[Applauds]] It is precisely his intended proposal that goes against the rights of workers and human rights, leaving article 35 of our Constitution unprotected. They may employ all the New Zealand orwellian they wish, but the point is that the paragraph whose derogation they seek is a guarantee of protection precisely for workers, whether they are employees or self-employed. The aim of decriminalizing coercion against those who want to work is nothing other than legitimizing violent union actions, because they are part of the non-aggression pact between the PSOE and the historical unions. And I say the historical unions because they are unions in the political service of the left, which no longer represent the majority of workers. What will be the next thing, decriminalizing the attack on the authority because the deputy of Podemos or even the vice president of the government have no objection to assaulting or justifying the assault of our police officers? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Yes, I am referring to its vice-president, because precisely this initiative is only the satisfaction of the catastrophic coalition, and this is reflected in point 5.6 of the government programme signed by Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias on 30 December. In VOX we don't know which committee of failed jurists has advised you, surely the same one that advises you in the epidemiological struggle, but, you know one thing? Violent pickets will continue to be a criminal offence even though they repeal this article, because another cannot be prevented violently from doing what the law does not prohibit, so these conducts will continue to be prosecuted and prosecuted by our independent judges, no matter how much it weighs them and no matter how much it does not fit their dictatorial desires. What this criminal type does is to provide for greater protection for workers, those of whom have been forgotten for years. The illustrious president of the government tweeted in February 2016: The eight of Airbus have my support and solidarity, the strike is a right and 315.3 must be repealed as soon as possible. There's no more demagogy in a single tweet. The strike is a right, but the violent one too, Mr. Sanchez? And what about the right to work? Doesn't it exist? [[Applauds]] We already know that for the President, work is not a right, because it suppresses it and grants it as a Bolivarian dictator, as we have seen in this harmful 2020. You, ladies and gentlemen, face violence and freedom, you want the violent to prevail in front of the worker who freely decides to work, trying to eliminate the protection that the Penal Code gives him. If they approve of this reform, thousands of self-employed and workers will be coerced with impunity to not be able to open their businesses, to not be able to work when some of their subsidized unions are determined to be marred by corruption. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u82	Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras, your time is up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u83	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on Flexibilization of Public Guarantee Loans of the ICO COVID-19 liquidity line. Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I will start talking about Hippocrates, as we are at a critical moment in the health history of our country. Hippocrates had an anecdote and it was next. Every time a patient had to be received, he had to behave in three different ways. Firstly, to appear to be absolutely normal and not to tell him how sick he was; secondly, to behave solemnly and pompously; and, thirdly, not to warn him of the extent and effects of his possible illness. I think Sanchez has replaced the hypocritical oath with the hypocritical concealment, and well it has worked in some cases, and we're going to prove why. On 17 March of this year, President Sánchez, in one of his generalist speeches - a mixture of redemptorism and propaganda - came to say that it was necessary to approve a line of credits by the ICO with the aim of mobilizing the greatest amount of resources that had existed in the history of our country. In this case, in the democratic history of our country. Fortunately, Mr. Sánchez did not go back eighty years in the history of our country. And from there, what happened? That said they were going to mobilize 150 billion or 200 billion, millions with that usual pomp and phlegm that have characterized all their public presentations and exhibitions over the last few months. He behaved automatically under the three hypocritical principles. First, the sick had to be denied what was happening to him, and there we had two great adalides. On the one hand, Fernando Simón, who said that there would be virtually no cases diagnosed in Spain on January 30, 2020. - What a great statement! They will pass on to the history of our country. And, on the other hand, the economic vice-president of the Government - who still remains the economic vice-president of the Government - with those statements in which she said that the economic impact in this country would be transitory and would be of little importance. Attention to what he said: the year with the highest level of economic destruction and job destruction in this country and the head of Economic Affairs saying it was going to be practically an episode without any importance. Therefore, he fulfilled the first mandate not of the hypocritical oath, but of the hypocritical cover-up. Secondly, that is solemnity and pompousness. Sánchez came and came to say little less that the decision to create a public credit line was a unilateral decision and a kind of ideological advent by the PSOE; not by that historical and transformative PSOE, but by transgenic socialism, which was precisely the result of the combination of ideas with the Podemos Union and other political parties. But - what a coincidence! - the guidelines of the European Commission a few days earlier pointed out the need for public credit lines and, on the other hand, the President of the People's Party had already warned a few weeks before it was necessary to mobilise credit. And, thirdly, the third principle of hypocritical cover-up was, of course, not to tell the sick that it was very bad. But, of course, the data is coming. Today is a very special day, because today we have been aware of what are the main lines of the draft Law on General State Budgets. Eye! It is a bill of general state budgets that, surprisingly, is forged on the basis of a structure of macroeconomic projections and a macroeconomic picture that had been made before the President of the Government himself announced militarily - he likes to speak in military terms, manu militari - the curfew. Does anyone in this country really believe that, on the basis of forecasts made prior to the state of alarm statement until May, with the foreseeable fall in economic activity that will occur and the destruction of employment, these macroeconomic projections can be maintained? Does anyone really think we're going to grow in tax revenues? Does anyone in his or her right mind think the budget just presented is credible? But, here you are, then applied what the Government usually applies in these cases. Since we had no fiscal margin, as we had lost 18 billion - as a result of the budgetary adjustment that the European Commission had brought to us as a result of the economic disruption of this country's revenue and expenditure policy - we made a placebo effect of hooking two hoses. Spain is the only country that has tried to counter the economic crisis on the basis of putting two hoses, which are the ICOs - and now I will continue to talk about it - and the ERTEs. Of course, there was no tax benefit program. We do not know that there will be a tax benefit program in this country. Obviously, it has not been announced, because with the ideological imposition of government hostages we are not going to have any kind of tax benefit program, nor are we going to have any direct aid or direct stimulus program. We will not have direct subsidies, when Germany, France and Italy were approving them. This is the reality. That is to say, of course, we have fallen into being the only country in which we are still practically engaged in providing funding. By the way, I'm an official, I'm a tax inspector, I'm a state agent, if anyone wants a tax inspector in the room I'm here, but in any case, I appreciate the 0.9 percent increase. [[Laughter]] They would also be grateful to self-employed workers and businesses with EUR 1 500 million to inject directly into businesses and workers who are not credit financing, but are direct financing, which are direct subsidies. That's what we should have done too. [[Applauds]] Because I really think you're still chasing the first person who screamed in the world live business freedom and live property and you haven't found it, until the day of the final judgment comes. On the day of the final judgment we will make an absolute judgment, a great ordaly against those who cry out live freedom, live the enterprise and live private property. Because what is the problem in the distinction between the public and the private? You were born public? Was the second vice president of the government born as a public? Lucky to be public! I was born to be private and I will die as private. But it doesn't matter, what do we intend to do now? Since you are incapable of arbitrating a powerful set of measures that make us an effective country, that make us a competitive country and that allow us to compete with the rest of the countries of the European Union where companies have been properly doped out of the crisis with the aim of getting them out of the crisis properly, have you already been exhausted in determining what will be the exit from the crisis? The best thing was when they said it was going to be a double grape, this is going to be a big vase like that. We'll see when we get out. But, really, the only thing we are asking you to do now, given that you are unable to implement a programme, as I say, of tax benefits or direct aid, is to at least extend the period of default of ICO loans and at least extend the period of maturity of ICO loans, something as simple as preventing many workers, especially many self-employed and many companies that will not be able to repay the loan because they do not have the financial capacity to repay it, from returning it. I would also like to say thank you for the 1.5 million that the autonomous communities and local authorities will have to pay, but I would also like to thank the companies and small entrepreneurs who will also put 1.5 million in order to be able, in some way, to settle their liabilities and, above all, their liquidity tensions. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u85	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mrs Fernández Castañón, intervened.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u86	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We do not discover anyone that the nature of a crisis generated by a pandemic like the one we are experiencing puts jobs, businesses and a country's own economy at risk. For this reason, since 17 March of this year, through Royal Decree-Law 8/2020, there is a line of state guarantees of more than 100 billion euros. The latest data published by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, dated 21 October, speak of almost €105 billion in financing for the productive fabric through approximately 849 000 operations, of which 98% are self-employed and SMEs. The ICOs, together with the European Central Bank's measures, have proved to be effective. Credit flows, experiencing a significant rebound in the months between April and June and interest rates remain stable and even fall, events quite different from those during 2012 and coming. What measures did Mr Rajoy's Government implement to ensure the liquidity of the productive fabric in our country? Did they establish a measure similar to that of the current Executive? Yeah? In April 2013, after nine consecutive quarters of declines in gross domestic product and ten months after the European Union debt crisis and the financial bailout, they presented a series of measures, including public guarantee and guarantee systems for bank financing, which then enabled the mobilisation of EUR 1720 million. We are now talking about 140 billion. By the way, the measure does not appear to have been very effective, because, both in 2013 and 2014, the credit for new transactions fell by 19 % and 9 % respectively. To this we add the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act, whose fiscal rules frame the administrations and even in times of pandemic, the government has had to suspend - and do not point that way - this measure so that the municipalities can access 16 billion remnants. [[Mr Garcés Sanagustín points out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] And stop pointing out, because it has been without the support of the People's Party and VOX. You come here to chrispar, but then you abstain. And you know why they're abstaining? Because they know that the measures are positive and because they know that their electorate knows that too. In addition, we add the abolition of labour rights, that is, a labour reform with reduced dismissal, and financial rescue. Do you remember what was said in 2011, at the investiture session, by M. Rajoy? He said the following: To tell the truth always, though it hurts; to call bread and wine. Well, then a thousand jugglers made you not to say ransom. But rescue is just what we still pay today, and as the Bank of Spain has told us we will not recover 78%. Do you know what this is? In particular, aid has been lost. And what about other measures in its legislature, such as the increase in the general rate of VAT, from 18 to 21, from 8 to 10 in reduced cases; the reduction of basic public services and the establishment of zero replacement rates. That's how the PP did it. These measures are in line with what other European economies are doing. These measures, according to the International Monetary Fund, lead us to a public expenditure in Spain dedicated to approving credits that exceed the European average by 3 points. And, to take advantage of the time I have, what we are going to say is that your recipes in the previous crisis are not going to follow this government. The prescriptions presented by this Government relate to the General Budgets of the State that the Council of Ministers today approved. That bill leads us, as the second vice-president said this morning, to leave the path of austerity to enter the path marked by the agreements reached in Europe. We are talking about strengthening the welfare state, recovering social and labour rights, ecological transition and economic transformations. We're talking about strengthening the attention to dependency. We are talking about strengthening the care system and encouraging reconciliation. We are talking about strengthening social protection. We are talking about strengthening equal opportunities in higher education. We're talking tax justice. It also includes this Law of the General Budgets of the State an agreement of the improvements of the minimum income vital and the commitment to draw up a regulation of the prices of the rent. If you really care about the economy of this country, the economy of families, SMEs, autonomous people and businesses, I understand that you will vote in favour of this bill. The rest would be a very hypocritical exercise. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u87	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u88	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Let us focus the debate on what the People's Party has proposed today. The People's Party, in its proposal, and I will quote it textually, says: In the temporary framework for measures to support the economy in the context of the current outbreak of COVID-19, the public guarantee of loans to give liquidity to companies was limited to a maximum of six years. In Spain, the Government limited this period to a maximum of five years. In other words, the temporary framework allowed operations to take place at six years, but the Government limited the guarantee of ICO loans, the state guarantee that it gave to debtors in favour of creditors, banks, to five years. In my view, the People's Party proposes that the time limit should be extended, that is, that operations should be extended so that they have the same temporary duration as the public guarantee, and that the public guarantee, which is now shorter, should be extended. Perfect, we agree. In this way, what the People's Party proposes is that we move from a scheme where operations take place to four or five years, of which the first is short and the next three or four are short, to a system in which the first two years are short and, then, three or four - the parties agree - to complete the six, which are amortization of the main. We agree with this. We also believe that this is urgent. We were the first ones we proposed in this Congress, for example, the moratorium on mortgages, and then all we saw was how the waves went up; now we have them all up, soon we'll see them down and we'll see how they left the beach. We therefore welcome this proposal by the People's Party; you extend the guarantees to six years and the operations to six years. But we, too - and we always say this to the People's Party, but the People's Party is very shy; we are not like you; you are shy - propose amendments that increase the freedom of contractors. In particular, you can agree to operations of more than six years, there is no problem; now, the guarantee is up to six years and for the capital that should have been amortized within the six-year period. Capital that is depreciated after six years is not guaranteed, but allows you to extend the term. Why do we insist on this extension of the deadline? Well, look, because they're about to overcome the shortcomings and the self-employed and the entrepreneurs are going to have to face the first receipts, they're going to take the amount of principal depreciation and they're going to feel that they're getting hard to deal with under the current conditions, because the crisis is getting so long. If we extend the repayment period, the quota is also reduced and, therefore, it will be much easier to do so. Therefore, let the parties freely agree on a longer period of time, although, logically, everything that remains above the six-year maximum period will not be guaranteed by the State. This is a technical improvement. What other technical improvement do we offer you? Look, there's more to life than French. I mean, you don't have to always think about constant-quota depreciation systems. We could go to allow the start of depreciation to be of increasing quota, so that in the early stages the liquidations are lower. Because, of course, we have to get used to the company box after all this period of low turnover and paying only interest, which is going to start receiving receipts from the main. Let's make it lighter. What, however, is the problem with a system of depreciation other than French, in which quotas are growing? Well, they could generate unwanted situations. And what would those unwanted situations be? Basically, that interest was capitalized and the debt went up above the principal. We put this in our amendment: a growing quota system, but in which no interest is capitalised. As those who have studied financial mathematics know, it is a frankly simple solution technically. We say all this because it is misleading to believe that, when this first period of deficiency is over, companies will be able to meet their obligations in the first few months; and if we cheat on the present, we will be unable to predict the future and take the appropriate measures to combat it. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Manso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr García Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. For me, a worker from this country, it is an honor to be able to defend the workers on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group from this rostrum. Mr. Garcés, moderation has lasted what lasts a coffee in the Plaza Mayor, because you have been unable to recognize that the government's line of endorsements has been a success. They recognize this throughout Europe, but the People's Party, the main opposition party in this country, is unable to rise to this rostrum and say that the ICO credit line is a real success and is also an example for many other European countries. [[Applauds]] Recognise, Mr. Garcés, that nothing is wrong; they do not cease to be moderate because they recognize him. Second question, Mr. Garcés. You, the economic spokesmen of the People's Party, go up to this rostrum to give economic lessons as if you were good managers, as if you had the gene of managing the economy well, and I think you have some forgetfulness that I'm going to review; I'm going to give you a review of what you did, but the review is ironic. When they arrived at the Government in 2011, the first decision was to raise taxes. They raised 21 billion taxes and cut 15 billion expenses. They could say, well, we've cut unnecessary expenses. They cut 15 billion expenditure on health, education and social services, and now, during the pandemic, the autonomous communities remember the cut of 15 billion in health. Does that sound like good managers to you, Mr. Garcés? Second question about the gene you have for which you are good managers. He has said - and it has not been said - that the Government has done the greatest economic and employment destruction this year. That's not true. We have had the greatest destruction of GDP ever known in the last forty years - indeed - but this government has not caused the greatest destruction to the productive fabric in the labour market; no, it is not true. The People's Party and Rajoy's government, in the first quarter of 2013, led this country to a historic record of 6,300,000 unemployed, and in 2012, when they were already ruling, with only a 3% drop in GDP, which is 6 times less than what GDP has fallen in the previous quarter and in the previous, you destroyed 1 million jobs. Only half a million jobs have been destroyed on this occasion. Are we better managers? Yes, for two reasons: because we have put in place the line of endorsements to generate liquidity for companies and because we have given the ERTE the flexibility necessary to maintain employment in companies and not to throw the workers at SEPE, which is what you did: to throw them into unemployment. Thirdly, we are a little better economic managers than you are. You come out here to defend businesses and the self-employed as if they were their spokespersons. When Mr Rajoy was ruling he was no good representative for entrepreneurs, SMEs and self-employed. First, because he did nothing with them in the worst financial crisis companies had for access to credit; he did nothing. We can see what we've done. It seems to you that 105 billion are few. Why in that thoughtful mind of good economists didn't they do something with businesses and self-employed people in 2012 and leave them abandoned? Now they remember that the self-employed raise the blind and in 2012, when they ruled, why didn't they remember that the self-employed raised the blind as well and left them abandoned? [[applause.-Mr. Garcés Sanagustín makes negative gestures]] Yes, Mr. Garcés, yes, they left them abandoned. It says: they are unable to provide a programme of aid to companies. Your Honor, if Spain is the country that, in proportion to its gross domestic product, has devoted the most to aid and financing lines for companies. Germany put 700 billion, yes, but it has only implemented 1.2% of its GDP. Spain has put 105 billion, 79 000 in guarantees, which means that we have put 8% of our GDP. You have done absolutely nothing for businesses, the self-employed and the workers. As the spokesman for Podemos has already told you what they have done with labour reform, I will save it, but if they really want to support the self-employed, businesses and SMEs, they support the budget that the government has approved this morning, which has 20 billion... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u91	Thank you, Mr. García. Your time's up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u92	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are at a time when the companies in our country are in a real situation of suffocation, and when the ICO lines were approved we could not imagine anyone - of course, the anthropological optimism of the government could not even imagine it - that at this time we would be back on the brink of a new state of alarm, nothing less than for six months, which is a state of alarm with lightness, and that will probably end up locking us back in our homes again. That, of course, is an unprecedented blow to the economy and requires absolutely exceptional measures. While it is true that the government's economic forecasts have been absolutely shattered by the reality, of course, when we talked about an 8% chance of a fall in our economy and said that we were optimistic, we were very short, because I believe that any one of this House would now sign a 12 for this year. But, of course, it is absolutely unreal that next year we are going to grow at a rate of 7.2, and there is nothing more to see than the economic data that we are getting to know. In the third quarter, the boost to the economy came mainly from household consumption, hence the pull, and if we look at the data for the fourth quarter, we can see how credit card payments in those communities with a higher cumulative incidence have fallen by no less than 15%. What does that mean? What it means is that, walking towards a closing economy as we are going to move forward, it is absolutely unthinkable that the economy will grow by 7.2 next year. And that, in addition to showing that the General Budgets of the State are a trap to the solitaire that is being made by the Government itself because there is no one who can expect these forecasts to be fulfilled, in addition to understanding that all Spaniards are being deceived when we are presented with that debt rate or that deficit rate, because the fall in GDP is going to be much more steep than expected and, therefore, it is going to trigger those rates, which also means that companies need measures and flexibility. We are therefore going to share this motion, because the ICO lines, apart from the fact that they were a good measure but not enough, apart from the fact that they were not enough, were also shown to be not all the effective that the government envisaged, because the government intended to multiply the money of the ICO lines as bread and fish, putting 100 billion and the companies to invest another 100 000, but the reality is that that 100 % has become only a 31. If we do not give businesses facilities, we will obviously be faced with a situation of job destruction that we are going to drag away for decades. I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and of the groups that support it, that 3 700 000 unemployed in Spain, 354 000 unemployed in the last quarter, a loss of employment of 4000 jobs per day requires a little responsibility, and I believe that responsibility cannot be imposed on companies. It is an attack on the economy, an attack on economic growth. I just don't know whether to think that they really have no idea of the economy or what they're trying to do is to destroy Spain in a real way. Because it cannot be argued that at a time like this the proposal is to raise taxes, because by raising taxes what is done is to destroy employment, but, of course, not the other way around. And when they say: And then how are we going to improve education, how are we going to improve health? Well, look, cutting chiringuitos, they have a lot of chiringuitos to cut. For starters, they have twenty-two blue chairs placed, twenty-two; they have half left to be a little more efficient than they are, too. They have more than 1800 million euros distributed in autonomous and national bars, with public televisions that only serve to give voice to their populist, interested and partisan messages. And you know what they're taxing for? They raise taxes to replace the photo of the hug with that of the codazo that Mr Sánchez has made today with Mr Iglesias, who are not even able to comply with the recommendations of the World Health Organization. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u93	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Pick it up on. Today the PP presents a GNP to request the extension of the public guarantee of ICO loans to six years and to extend the period of deficiency. One of the first measures agreed by the Government to cushion the crisis resulting from COVID was indeed the ICO collateral line, designed to provide liquidity to self-employed people, SMEs and businesses. In short, a good measure, but it was thought according to a recovery forecast that today has not just arrived. The activity continues to descend and to this must be added the uncertainty that will result from the new restrictive measures that are being taken in the face of the second wave of the COVID and that will significantly affect many sectors, especially those that have more to do with the mobility of customers: hospitality, tourism, etc. To this must be added another ingredient and is that the date to start returning the loans is approaching - March and April - and, as I said, that economic recovery does not arrive. There is no increase in activity and not all companies will be able to deal with the repayment of loans within the set deadlines, in relation to which it must be said that the small and medium-sized enterprise has been requesting this extension of the deadlines for some time. We are aware that what is being requested here today is not easy, as this line of aid has been approved by Europe and is therefore subject to Community rules, which allow this period to be increased to six years, but which was closed by precisely five for the planned analyses of recovery at the time, and therefore, if extended, we believe that the State's debt should be restructured. As the pandemic is evolving, which has led us again to a state of alarm statement that will allow new restrictions to combat COVID, it is to be hoped that the growth of activity will slow again, and in this sense autonomous and SMEs will need more time to meet their financial needs. It will be necessary to adopt new measures and modify the instruments available to prevent a higher rate and instability of SMEs and an instability of the economy in general. The truth is that the fall in supply is there and the collapse of demand and the decline in income are leading not only to layoffs, but also to company closures. Although it seems that the measures have gone in the right direction, they are insufficient, as the pandemic is going on for a long time. We have been too optimistic about its duration and depth. The pandemic is going to continue with us for a while, as I said, so a much more ambitious plan is needed to manage the crisis as it evolves. This will require a redesign of economic policy. We know that the third Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs, Mrs Calviño, is negotiating this issue, the flexibility of these conditions in Europe, and trying to adapt the ICO's endorsements to the current and likely economic situation. These measures should also be taken within the framework of the social dialogue and together with the sector(s) concerned. Our group believes that it is necessary to adopt and adapt as many measures as are necessary to support the productive fabric and thus employment, but we also believe that, as a measure that has been adopted within the European framework, the proposal set out in the GNP must be agreed with Europe to balance aid to businesses and the risks that this kind of measures may entail for the financial sector. That is why we are abstaining, in order to achieve this agreement in Europe, and because of the government's apparent commitment to adapt these mechanisms, as expressed in the amendment they have proposed. Now, I also say here that we will be careful and that, if we do not do so, this group will be the one to propose a GNP in this respect, because, in the face of new relapses where activities are likely to have to be restricted, it will be necessary to put in place and adapt all these mechanisms to act on the solvency of companies that remain viable. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u95	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u96	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, three hours of plenary and debate and it is the first issue related to the pandemic and what really takes away the dream of the Spaniards. We seem to forget the situation we are in, the situation in which thousands of families, thousands of entrepreneurs, thousands of self-employed and thousands of workers live, and against forgetfulness, I remember; I remember thousands of entrepreneurs and self-employed who have had to lower their blindness and memory for every story of sacrifice and illusion truncated by this pandemic. But let's get to the heart of the matter. Among the aid decreed by the Government in spring was the liquidity line in the form of publicly guaranteed loans, the well-known ICO COVID-19 line, a measure that we negotiated and defended in Citizens and that has been a real lifesaver for Spanish companies during the first wave. But I'm sorry to tell you that we're in a very serious situation right now. This second wave of the pandemic is going to pose an even greater challenge than the first, and it will be a greater challenge because at this second wave the companies come double or triple in debt: they have been in debt to face the payment of wages, they have been in debt to face the payment of current expenses or the adequacy of their premises to the new health standards and they have been in debt to be able to pay the taxes, because this Government, instead of giving them facilities for the postponement of the payment of taxes, has asked them to claim credits to be able to claim the same. In short, at this second wave, companies arrive more in debt, with their savings exhausted, and they also have to face the payment of loans backed by the State. Ladies and gentlemen, as you continue to delay the solutions, this November many companies will start paying their quotas in the middle of a context of increasing uncertainty, selective confinement, time constraints and waiting for the worst of this second wave of the pandemic to come. That is why we will vote in favour of this initiative, because, in addition to collecting one of the amendments that my parliamentary group, Citizens, has tabled to one of the real economic decrees of COVID, it is one of the most repeated requests by the entrepreneurs themselves, who still do not find a solution to their ruin. It is true that the Government is working with financial institutions to save the situation, yes, it is, but it is also true that they could have taken complementary measures to ease the pressure on businesses and self-employed people to change these loan conditions. To date, according to the latest data available from the ICO, EUR 79 billion has been transferred back to companies, and of this amount some EUR 2 billion is at risk of becoming irrecoverable losses for public coffers. It is therefore true that we need the green light of the European Commission in order to be able to change these conditions, yes, it is true, but it is also true that with the mirages of this government, those green outbreaks and recoverys in V, they have lost a vital time to make reforms and adapt these credits to the real circumstances of our country's economy. So, we are threatened by a hole of billions, another, when some wanted to ignore that these public endorsements that were placed on the table would have to be returned within a minimum of six months if chosen by the entrepreneur. But the rebounds and the return to the state of alarm, the self-congratulation and the lack of foresight and prevention, have truncated the expectations of recovery in V that have been mentioned so much by the ministers of this government and the calculations of what the definitive damage to the national economy will be do not cease to fatten. Therefore, we have two alternatives, either to leave companies in our country drifting in the second wave or to use ourselves thoroughly to keep our productive fabric alive and that there is something left to rebuild when the pandemic is over. So the choice is very easy: let us all work on finding solutions and do it without rest, let us comply with the Spanish, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u97	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. With a minute and a half that I usually have - sometimes, one - and the new criteria for strict control of the times of the presidency, I will have to adapt to the machine gun rhythm of Iñigo Errejón if I want to say something. In case I do not come to the end, I say at the beginning that for the BNG it is necessary to extend the repayment period and also the period of lack of ICO credits, to deal with dramatic situations that can occur at the end of that year of lack, in March, when many self-employed are still in a precarious situation or with their closed businesses and therefore without any income. In this crisis, as in 2008, the importance of public banking has been highlighted, as many other countries in our environment have: Germany, without going any further. Unfortunately, in Galicia we do not only have a public bank, but our savings banks were privatized and badly sold in an operation in which the public treasury lost nothing more and nothing less than EUR 8 billion. In this context, the most similar thing - although with many democratic obstacles, many more than they should - is the ICO. We therefore believe that ICO credits must be used precisely to get out of this economic crisis, to give the necessary support to the autonomous and autonomous in order to overcome this crisis situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u99	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u100	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Garcés, we share the operative part - then I will give you a few notes - we do not share the explanatory part and we do not share your defence of GNP today either, because you are very keen to talk about the budget and I see that the Socialist spokesman too, but I tell some of you not to worry, because we are going to have a November to talk conscientiously and concentrated about the budget; we are going to have time. What concerns us today is whether we really perceive the need for ICO-backed credits to increase the liquidity of companies to be extended to six years and, in turn, whether the shortfall should be increased. We have asked for this from the outset. Given the evolution of the economy, of course, it is even more necessary. However, we also believe that this should be done in a negotiated and agreed manner within the framework of the European Union, because these are the conditions. We understand that there is no urgency to do so now, but I also tell the Socialist Party that this cannot be done on the last day of the last week. We would be wrong and would be very harmful to companies. Therefore, if it is passed on to us by the Ministry of Economy that is working and there is will, we accept it, but that will have to be resolved in the coming months. If not, we would enter into a situation of non-legal but financial insecurity for companies - some of which, according to the evolution of the pandemic, will have to receive additional aid; something of which we must be aware - and also for the financial institutions themselves because, however much assured they have the operations through the ICO, it is clear that not only the small and medium-sized and autonomous companies - which will surely be the first ones - but also the large companies will have problems dealing with these loans, according to the evolution of the economic situation, which will be conditioned by the health situation. Therefore, by sharing the operative part, perhaps not temporary, we understand that these are not things that we should dispatch through a GNP, although we understand that it is legitimate. We're going to be a little cautious, we're going to keep asking and waiting for the Ministry of Economy to do its job. Otherwise, we'll be the first... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u101	Thank you, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u102	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. We are faced with an unprecedented crisis, a crisis that is closing in an even more virulent way on SMEs, self-employed workers and small businesses that, because of their structure, do not have enough financial muscle to deal with adversities. So repeated, obviously. For a great deal of obviousness, exceptional measures must be applied in exceptional times. We've been repeating it since the beginning of the pandemic. Now they are more necessary than ever expansive policies. We need to implement countercyclical policies and therefore an increase in public investment. Otherwise, if you do not do so and repeat the recipes applied by you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, during the 2008 crisis, the consequences would be catastrophic. So when I read his non-law proposition, I thought about where the ball was, where the trick was, and the PNV spokesman revealed it to him. The trick is that this is a nice toast to the sun, considering that the complicity of the European Commission is essential. The ICO loan tool was correct and necessary, though not sufficient. Since the beginning of the granting of these credits, abuses were detected by some banking entities that required additional services, such as insurance. Types of abusive interests were also observed, and we have repeatedly denounced this. This is where we focus on our main demand, that these credits be useful, that they permeate, that they reach the entire productive sector. Measures have been taken by the Government of the Generalitat to curb the progress of the pandemic and reduce social interactions. At the same time, last week the Government adopted measures to try to alleviate the impact, such as the reduction in the payment of rents to the premises concerned, but it is essential that the State Government also move and decree a moratorium on the collection of taxes such as VAT - which were to be presented last day 20-, corporation tax, as well as social security contributions and the moratorium on the payment of loans and basic supplies, as Vice-President Aragonès claimed last week. It makes no sense for the State to continue to levy taxes normally when many companies cannot operate on a regular basis. Thus, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we urge you to act swiftly. The five-year and one-year gap period can no longer be considered sufficient to face a demand shock like the one we are having. From the perspective that the months give us, there are surveys like that of Pimec this September that tells us that 51.6 of the Catalan SMEs and self-employed have signed a loan ICO. Of that total, 28 % considers that they will not be able to make their return without difficulty after the twelve months of deficiency. We are also aware that the Cecot organisation has sent to Minister Calviño - for the moment, which I know, without reply - the need to extend the one-year gap on loans granted. Failure to take action in this area could increase defaults in the coming months, increasing the risk of late payments. That is why it is essential that the Government move and soon, that this can come for months and makes loans more flexible in line with the economic context. One more year of lack seems to us to be a reasonable measure that would provide oxygen to many of those small companies that today claim not to be able to cope with this loan. We are waiting for complicated months, we must implement the necessary measures to prevent the chain of payments from being broken and to safeguard jobs. For example, to stop delaying the introduction of the law against lateness would be a good sign; to arrive soon at good port would be good for the real economy. In short, yes... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. Your time's up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Garcés, does your group accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u104	We accept the amendment by the VOX Group and reject the amendment by the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u105	Thank you very much. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group on ensuring the protection, inclusion and adequate care of unaccompanied migrants and minors. [[File number 162/000133]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u106	We continue with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal to ensure the protection, inclusion and adequate care of unaccompanied migrant minors and minors. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr. Anguita Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are now discussing at this point the non-law proposal on a collective that requires special sensitivity, compression and respect from its lordships, since this initiative speaks about unaccompanied foreign minors. I repeat, talk about minors. The aim of this proposal is to achieve greater coordination between the various public administrations competent in this field, but also to combat the growing hate speech directed against these minors. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a special responsibility to combat hate speech and racism encouraged by groups linked to the far right and their parliamentary representation; hate speech that has a full responsibility for the increase in xenophobic attacks that have been taking place on our streets for the past two years. The reality is undeniable, and it is that aggressions have increased in the centers where these minors, centers and public spaces are housed that have been the object of attacks by which some media have called identity groups; so that we understand the rest, by fascist groups, but without a noisy media whitening. Ladies and gentlemen, the Convention on the Rights of the Child tells us that children have the right to a standard of living adequate for their physical, mental, spiritual, moral and social development. In the case of unaccompanied foreign minors, we must remember that these children are under the custody of the State, under the supervision of public institutions, and we, as public officials, have to live up to and guarantee their rights and equal opportunities. That is why this Government remains and will remain committed to continuing to work with the various public administrations. I would like to recall that in 2018 the socialist government provided the autonomous communities with more than 40 million euros and 30 million more were included in the General Budgets of the State of 2019 that this House did not approve. Still, we will continue to respond to the social demand that requires us to be brave. Our commitment is to continue to guarantee the rights of these children in all areas, such as in the field of work. As you are well aware, since March an unaccompanied foreign child of working age who wishes to do so will be able to do so and access the labour market. Young third-country nationals who do not have the necessary work authorization have also had the first opportunity to work during the state of alarm thanks to a decree-law promoted by this Government. Ladies and gentlemen, as political representatives we are, our words have greater weight, have a special hold on society; our words can - and, indeed, have - a palpable response on the streets. If from this rostrum, from a television set or from our social networks a public representative encourages to hate, stigmatize or point out a collective on racial grounds, it is a matter of time before that representative's words are passed to action by his racist fanatics. This GNP is therefore also intended to protect this particularly vulnerable group from hate speech, racism and xenophobia. [[Applauds]] Politics, as the Left understands it, is a tool that can solve the problems of citizenship, but its tortuous use cannot only solve the real problems of people, but can be deliberately used to infect the collective imagination with tension, hatred and resentment. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been able to hear negationist speeches about climate change, denying macho violence. We have witnessed shameful speeches against the LGBTI community and also speeches full of hatred and fanaticism against the migrant community in Spain. Nor have migrant children been spared from being stigmatized and subsequently attacked. The painfully curious thing - but also enlightening, on the other hand - is that some sections of the far right take less time to separate themselves from the attacks on those minors than to condemn those attacks properly. That, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be allowed in 2020 and that, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be allowed in a democracy like ours. [[applause]] And you know: excuse not small, accusation manifest. Make one thing clear: this country defends itself with its solidarity, with its diversity and with its desire to join together to get further, not so that the same few always arrive before the rest. The racists who seek to defend our country by assaulting these minors must know one thing, that there is no courage or pride in attacking a minor who has no more homeland than his own present. [[Applauds]] We must never forget, ladies and gentlemen, that these children, boys and girls, are future adults who will have experienced innumerable situations for much of their lives: terrorism, systematic violation of human rights, wars, absolute poverty and now, moreover, they have to face insults, paints, stones and even the throwing of a grenade into their homes. I want to use this moment, from this rostrum, to tell you that you are not alone and that you are not alone, because my group and I will denounce each and every one of the attacks on these minors and we will also condemn each and every one of the interventions of the far right, pointing out with hatred and bitterness to unaccompanied foreign minors. I'm going to finish, ladies and gentlemen. I belong to a generation that, when they reached thirty, had to face two very strong economic crises. From the first we were still getting up with effort and dedication. Now we are going to face this second crisis knowing what the solution of fascism is. It goes through confrontation among people, through the criminalization of the most vulnerable groups and by trying to use our flags to divide rather than unite in our diversity. Before trying to flood the streets with their xenophobia, think that our children, our children, our brothers and sisters dream of what they want to be older, where they want to travel or where they want to live, and that these immigrant minors, at best, dream of living without fear, in peace and with the legitimate desire to be able to develop a vital project with dignity; a dignity that must be inherent to all, regardless of how we are and how we have arrived. I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, social anti-fascism and parliamentary anti-fascism are once again called upon to fight against the last extorters of fascism of the last century. Let us all join together and together point the door to the last and unfortunate fascist reduct of our country. I assure you that the Socialists and the Socialists will not fail in that struggle. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u108	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, believe me that this GNP has dislocated me a little because I believe that a debate that was already taking place in this House has resuscitated and should have led to action by the Executive in an earlier manner and without the need for such admonitions, which, moreover, have been made by a group that supports the Government, sound somewhat dislocated. In May 2018 my group, the Basque Parliamentary Group, first put forward an inquiry and then a motion to promote the adoption of a framework protocol on unaccompanied foreign minors, in accordance with Article 190.2 of the Aliens Regulation, which was intended to coordinate the intervention of all the institutions and administrations concerned in this area. At that time, we note that article 3.1 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child stipulates that in all measures concerning children who take institutions, in general, the primary consideration is that of the best interests of the child, as also repeats the non-law proposal itself. We also recalled that general comments 6 and 14 of the Committee on the Rights of the Child showed that the particularly vulnerable situation of unaccompanied minors transcended the protection of children. We're going back to the same place today. Instead of addressing the issue in the context where it should be placed, we are being brought to the House what is not - with all due respect - but a toast to the sun. I say this because this debate is already taking place at the request of the Autonomous Communities, which are really competent in this area, with the Directorate-General for Children's and Adolescents' Rights and the Working Group on Migrant Minors at the request of Euskadi. [[The lady]] Instead of generic pronouncements, it is about giving effective answers to inclusion and the future. It is not lawful to urge, as the GNP says, measures to ensure adequate protection, inclusion and care for minors if no solution is previously offered to the massive concentration on specific points and in specific communities of these minors. That is why in our amendment we are talking about a specific proposal, the Share proposal, because we have made an amendment that goes in that direction. This Share proposal is an offer launched by the Basque Government to other autonomous communities and other regions of the European Union, in the sense that, in the face of a massive arrival of minors, from co-responsibility the effort must be distributed, in addition to three parameters that coincide with those applied by Germany on the occasion of the massive arrival of the refugee population from Syria, aimed at a reasonable distribution. These criteria were: tax revenues, population and unemployment rate. It should be noted that this proposal was signed by Catalonia, Melilla, Castile and León, Navarre, the Canary Islands, Valencia and others, but also by some other European regions such as New Aquitaine, Attica in Greece or the Eurocity of Euskadi that make up San Sebastián and Bayona. In our amendment we also mention another proposal to avoid what was rightly pointed out by the Socialist spokesman, who was the stigmatisation of this group. And we are talking about the anti-rumbling networks, which are entities of the third social sector that do a job at community level to dismantle false accusations of the style that migrants come for minimum income, they come to take out employment, they come to receive help or they are criminals, etc. These entities try to counter such defamatory campaigns, thus avoiding what is nothing more than a xenophobic and intolerant alarm. Allow me to end by giving you another experience of your own. The Basque Parliament recently signed the so-called Basque Social Pact for Migration. Its virtue is that this has meant an agreement between all Basque institutions, third sector entities and all political groups, except the PP in this case, to take action on the generic collective of migration and also on that of minors. In our view, that is the way and not the way of statements without content that do not give the problem any solution. We would therefore vote in favour, because we do not disagree with GNP, of accepting these amendments which we have put to you, which we believe are reasonable and otherwise we will have to abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u110	Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u111	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we are discussing allows us to focus on one of the most vulnerable groups in our country, unaccompanied minors; minors fleeing their countries because of conflicts, persecution, poverty in many of their cases; minors whose lives have not been easy at all; minors who come to Spain fleeing from horror and looking for something very simple, a better life, a country where they earn bread and a country where they want to develop as people. A population group, ladies and gentlemen, of these minors, of whom, regrettably, on more than one occasion I hear some parliamentary group in this House issuing stigmatising and discriminatory messages, rather than proposing improvements in our protection system, in our system of intervention and correction of certain conducts. I think it is important not to make hollow speeches about minors and much less about vulnerable minors. Look, it's easy to get us into your situation. The situation is to think about what would happen to any of our children, what would happen to any of our nephews if they were in the same situation as unaccompanied minors in our country. We are talking about defending the children's rights of these children and therefore it seems essential to my parliamentary group to support and improve this measure, this proposal, above all because we do not want hollow speeches as is sometimes done, but rather to promote effective measures to promote the equality and inclusion of these children. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments aimed at making effective policies in the field of unaccompanied minors. The State must assume the powers of first reception and then proceed to a balanced sharing of responsibilities for the care of these children among the different autonomous communities, depending on the capacity and resources available. Together with this, we must promote good socio-educational work with these children, meet their specific needs and promote education and training. The latter is vital. We have to give these children opportunities for the future. I think they will agree with me that education is civic, respect and inclusion. The reality shows us that in this case the expectations in the work with unaccompanied minors are not being met. We must rethink the intervention model and protect them especially from the networks. In some cases, the results may not be expected, but what I find totally outrageous is that sometimes it is the excuse to point out and blame the minors themselves that the system is not working, when what we are seeing on some occasions is that the system has cracks in its protection and intervention with them. We cannot allow many of these children to leave the centres at the age of eighteen without a formative and educational forecast and a possible future. That's where we have to make the most of it. That is why, and returning to the facts, we in Citizens believe that it is essential that the State complements the funds of the Autonomous Communities, as we have established in our amendments, so that they have the necessary resources and means, so that these children have good care, both in the Autonomous Communities and in the cities of Ceuta and Melilla. It is essential to promote initiatives such as this and promote work. That is why I would like the Socialist Party to accept the amendments, since it would be much more than acknowledging an improvement in the system of care for minors, it would be more than just the facts, how we should do it, having funds and having a good work plan that will really enable and give these children a future. I would also like to recall that we are talking about rights that are recognized in the Declaration of the Rights of the Child, so as not to deviate from which centre and where we focus our intervention. I hope this House will take on the real commitment to provide an adequate framework for these children so that they can develop in an appropriate, personal and professional way. I wish we were up to it...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u112	Mrs. Giménez, your time is up. I let you finish this sentence, but I beg you to stick to the time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u113	...and stop using minors as a bold weapon to develop politics. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs. Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. Every time a government party urges the government to do something, I always ask myself the same question: Why does the government not do it now, without having to urge a government party? It is a somewhat rhetorical question, but all those who have been in the Government have done so. Do it now. They take time. The motion of censure to Mr Rajoy was in 2018 and, therefore, could have already been done what the motion asked for. Moreover, it has been a long time since the extreme right has tried to denigrate and blame these minors, and we therefore understand that this should be done. Our amendment comes as a result of the Ombudsman's own reports, which categorically states that Spain does not know how many unaccompanied minors he receives; and, moreover, he says of the reports that the official register data are unreliable. There are obvious distortions between official state data and data from the autonomous communities, which are the ones with competence. Therefore, our amendment of addition we understand that it completes its wording - we anticipate that we are going to vote in favour, of course - and goes in the direction of really knowing the number of unaccompanied minors that exist. That is why we ask for an absolutely reasonable thing, which is access to legal aid and interpreter assistance for these minors at all border points and information in the international protection procedure for the correct identification of these minors. Thank you very much, Madam President. I nailed it and I've got five seconds left.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Actually, I put two minutes on him and he had one and a half. [[Laughter and applause.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Look, Mr Anguita, of course we agree with the GNP and with what you put forward, because it is true and because we share this view of the explanatory statement. But what will the GNP remain in? Why do they not urge the Government to take any concrete action? Some of the previous speakers have already said so. In order to be able to put it into practice, we have tabled two specific amendments, which contain a request which sent us the 'Spai Antiracista Salt-Girona', which carried out the action sealed by rights. PNL deals with unaccompanied minors, but alongside the situation they have while they are minors, of course, there is the situation when they reach the age of majority, when they are expelled from the child protection system. One of the causes of stigmatization of these minors, or when they cease to be, is that most do not work. But here's the problem. How can they work if they do not have, many of them, permission to work? It is true that some of the provisions we welcome have been adopted over the past year, and you have mentioned some of them. Instruction 1/2020, of course, has improved something that was already a possibility before; nor is it so new. Royal Decree 13/2020 empowers immigrants between eighteen and twenty-one years of age, with permission of residence, to work yes, but only in the agricultural sector. And why only in this sector? Because that's what the Spaniards needed at the time. The Royal Decree 19/2020 also complements the previous one and is another step forward. But these provisions have not solved all the problems of unaccompanied minors and those who are already ex-MENA because they have already reached the age of eighteen and have not been able to benefit from Royal Decree-Law 13/2020. Among them, some were unable to benefit because they did not have a residence permit. And why didn't they have a residence permit? Because they had fallen into an irregularity that had occurred. Why? Because the conditions for renewing a residence permit involve or involve having economic resources that they cannot access if they do not have a work permit, or involve having a job offer of at least one year; and, as is the labour market, this is quite difficult. Nor could those who did not find work in the agricultural sector benefit from that royal decree and, of course, we have to bear in mind that the offers are in one part of the territory and unaccompanied minors, or unaccompanied ex-minors, are in another part of the territory, perhaps, so it was not so easy to marry offer with demand. The autonomous communities know that they invest public money in minors while they are minors and are under their guardianship, but then the legislation on foreigners does not facilitate their employment. You tell us that protection, inclusion and adequate attention must be guaranteed to the MENA, and what better way to do that than by giving them work authorization to earn a living independently? This protects them, because they will be able to access financial resources, helps them in their inclusion and will not feel rejected by society and means giving them adequate attention, because the problem is solved. To grant, in this respect, are the two amendments that we have tabled. The data also indicate that both in 2019 and 2020 the number of unaccompanied minors has decreased. Now, then, is the time to adopt these new provisions. This will help not to increase the number of irregularities that have occurred, to combat their stigmatization and to promote their inclusion. You are part of the most progressive self-called government in history, you can make decisions. Let us hope that this GNP will take some concrete decision and not just in good words. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Illamola. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u119	Thank you, President. In the neighborhood of San Blas de Madrid a couple of weeks ago there was a demonstration with explicit Nazi symbolism against unaccompanied minors and extolled older adults. What had happened was that after months of enduring comments and even racist aggression the boys fought against a group of neo-Nazis and they ended up setting up a supposedly neighboring demonstration against Nazi symbolism, I repeat. This is not an isolated fact, it happens in many parts of the Spanish state, it passes and is fed by hate speeches, as the spokesman for the PSOE said, hate speeches that are also heard in this House; rather than hate - let us speak clearly - racist speeches that are given in this House and that during the motion of censure we had the opportunity to hear from the hand of the VOX Parliamentary Group. There are responsibilities and responsibilities; it has been said before that the management of the models is of the autonomous communities, but there are also many elements that can be done from this site. The first thing to say is that the so-called unaccompanied minors, because they are accompanied, what they do not have are references here, they are young and they are children and as such they have to be treated, they cannot be treated as foreigners, and the second is that at least in Catalonia the model is totally collapsed, oversaturated, lack resources, highly privatized. This leads us to a slippery reality: children crowded in centers that at the age of eighteen are thrown on the street without more resources, private centers without resources that support workers as they can - and from here I send a meaningful hug to all the people who endure the centers of these kids with all the love and affection they have - and even age tests with different methods every time they attack the privacy many times of these young people. He said that this is the competence of the Autonomous Communities and it has been said earlier that more resources are needed, but there are also responsibilities that can be assumed from this House. We were talking about racism. There is one section, which could be called social racism, which is the fight against hate speech, the fight against racist speech, and we think that one of the things that could happen is that in this House this Bureau every time someone articulates a racist speech, it decides and forces it to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions manifestations that go against the rights of minorities, in this particular case of unaccompanied minors. We would like to see this, and we think it is an effective measure against racism that is being systematically taken in this House. There are also measures to combat institutional racism that could be carried out from here and that we would love to hear from the Government party. The Aliens Act must be repealed because it is the institutional framework that allows a framework that also condemns these children many times to indigence when they are eighteen years old. The Aliens Act must be repealed because it maintains a model of detention centres and deportations... By the way, the other day the European Court of Justice condemned the way deportations are made in the Spanish State, the judgment said that in most cases a fine would suffice rather than a deportation. The Aliens Act must be repealed because the Aliens Act kills, ends the lives of people on the southern border, in detention centres and in deportations. Institutional racism, ladies and gentlemen. This is what the PSOE could do to ensure the sustainability of these unaccompanied minors when they are eighteen years old. There are things to do, much more than an empty bill, it has already been said. We will vote in favour because we are obviously in favour of the general sense, we will also vote in favour of the majority of amendments that have been tabled, but there is much more to be done, ladies and gentlemen. Racism kills and is not a matter of speech, it is a question of institutional ending the lives of people on the southern border, in detention centres and in every deportation flight. Institutional racism is called and responsible. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u121	Pick it up on. The arrival of unaccompanied foreign minors in the Spanish State as a whole is having a huge impact on the child protection system, overflowing the forecasts and resources available for the care of young children in contexts of very severe neglect and helplessness. From 2009, the phenomenology of the presence of this new migratory actor triggered all the alarms and mechanisms of protection from the prism of two very divergent normative views: minors to protect, to accept as long as they maintain this condition, and foreigners to control, to expel following the logic of the security policies of Europe from common borders. We move into a scenario that generates a clear conflict of interest between the legal protection of the child and the guiding principles of the Aliens Act. I take the opportunity to say that this law has to be repealed now. Minors go through a path that is not free of difficulties from a discourse that represents them as a burden for administrations and not as a subject of rights. And the latter is what should be clear in this Chamber, the public administrations must ensure that policies and actions are aimed at guaranteeing children's rights above any economic, migration control or management criteria of public resources, as said Save the Children.People should never be perceived as a problem; it is the social contexts that become problematic and generate conflicting behaviors. This also applies to migrant minors. I will refer to some of these contexts. For years - also today - in order to determine the age of these young people, invasive tests have been carried out and in many cases against their will, violating their rights. Despite the Supreme Court's rulings, it is observed in practice that the prosecutor's office continues to request an excessive number of medical examinations to determine the age of the child, disregarding such rulings. The UN Committee on the Rights of the Child has already taken fourteen decisions against Spain since 2019 on the issue of determining the age of unaccompanied migrant children. The experts found several violations of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. With regard to the residence permit, processed by the protection agencies, processing processes are endless. Unfinished administrative procedures mean that in many cases these young people will reach the age of majority without a residence permit, not allowing them to enter the world of work, in need of a registered work permit, conditioning them to an offer of employment in the midst of the worst possible scenarios, of health, economic, social crisis and of acute youth unemployment. The administrative institution itself, which once assumed its guardianship, places them in the shadow of irregularity and precariousness. We have a challenge ahead that needs quick answers and real solutions. The first priority is to strengthen coordination between the actors involved in the reality of these children and their immediate future. First, an integral treatment. We can say that steps are being taken in this direction in the Foral Community of Navarre and in the Basque Autonomous Community, despite the fact that there are still shortcomings. The transit programmes, which are an accompaniment in the autonomy processes of these young people, should be highlighted. It is necessary to listen and take into account the interests and concerns of young people, making it easier to follow the professional path, promoting positive social environments and promoting the construction and development of resilient subjects. More resources are needed, no doubt. It is necessary to overcome the watchfulness and the interested tendency to stereotype these young people. Why do you want to focus on these young people with false information? We make it very clear: outside fascists! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u122	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon to everyone. Mr. Anguita, we like your GNP. Moreover, we will vote yes because racism and fascism kill and must be combated, but I must remind the Socialist Group that a proposal and six hundred thousand lives at stake, the struggle for the regularization of migrants, came to Congress, to this Chamber. The 'Regularization already' movement together with the Coordinator Obrim Frontiers and the support of 1500 organizations throughout the state got the endorsement of eight parliamentary groups from this house to a PNL that was debated in this Chamber a few weeks ago and you voted no. There were thirteen legally feasible instances - six hundred thousand lives at stake - but you voted no. The GNP had two points on young migrants, 6 and 7, and you voted no. It says the 'Regularization Now' platform that rejection of its GNP was a lost historic opportunity with which it turned its back on the rights of hundreds of thousands of people. This result was accompanied by an upsurge in racist raids and the announcement of the reopening of the CIEs and of the new European migration framework, which maintains institutional racism in the DNA of European and State policy. On your GNP, Mr Anguita, unaccompanied foreign minors, MENA, a legal term that should be used to give a place in the field of law, but what you do is to establish a category and stigmatise, serves to talk about budget items that will then not affect them - I hope I am mistaken -, to fill the fascist and racist political discourses of the extreme fascist, Francoist and xenophobic right, to use them as an electoral hook and also for some companies that manage public resources to work at their cost. The truth is that childhood, adolescence and migrant youth enter the logics of irregular migration control designed for adults. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, do you know what would really help to curb racism and hate speech against children, adolescents and migrant youth? Bold human rights policies. End the raids by ethnic profiles, you urgently reform sections 197 and 198 of the Aliens Act Regulations to grant these young people a residence and work permit. This law kills, my partner just said it. Eliminate osseometric tests for young people who have documentation from their country of origin. School the boys and girls of Melilla, which is institutional racism. They forbid Nazi demonstrations. Close the CIEs, this greater example of institutional racism. Accelerate procedures for recognition of university and non-university degrees. They reduce the length of stay required for access to the root and the offer of contract. Strengthen the administrative capacity of the foreign offices and services of Government sub-delegations. Do not cut funds for active occupation policies, reinforce them and expand them. Replenish the Host, Immigration and Integration Fund. All this is to do anti-racist policy because, as Angeles Solanes says: Against the virus of discrimination we still do not apply the vaccine of equality. That is why racism, xenophobia and ethnophobia have found a weakened society that has allowed these forms of inequality to grow and strengthen. Against fascist and racist hatred, equality, ladies and gentlemen, and regularization now. You have the majority. Do it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum). [[Pause. - One.]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs García Puig.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u125	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Last March, the arrival of the pandemic in our country brought us into contact with our greatest fears. In addition to all the doubts about our future work or economics, we suddenly found that we didn't know when we were going to see our relatives, we couldn't accompany them if they got sick and we couldn't even say goodbye if they died. Now imagine having to live with all these fears every day, every month, every year. Imagine even more that this happens to them during their childhood and adolescence, a vital period, a period in which our character is forged, a period that is very susceptible to both trauma and pain and needs greater affection and protection than ever before. That is why they have to suffer day after day the hatred of a minority, who even threaten them to the door of their homes. This is the reality of unaccompanied migrant children and adolescents in our country. The GNP that the Socialist Group is bringing us here today is in that direction, in the direction of reversing the situations of material and moral insecurity in which these children and adolescents find themselves and, of course, we will support it. We miss, yes, a little more concrete, because there are a number of minimum standards that have already been discussed in this House and that we need to implement urgently if we do not want to go further in the violation of rights that migrant children suffer every day. First, we must ensure that children and young people who migrate alone are treated in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, always considering their status as minors above their migration status. Repatriations against their will should therefore be prohibited. We must also avoid segregation in ad hoc institutions and all those measures that prevent them from being rooted in the community. We must also act - as has been said earlier - against the procedures for determining the age of these persons in which their rights are not guaranteed, as requested by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, but also by the Ombudsman himself. This Government has made much progress in providing conditions for migrant girls and girls to obtain residence permits and work permits. We must deepen and continue to work on that line so that no young person can be found on the street when they reach the age of majority. Finally, it must be said - and it must be made clear - that it is imperative to close the detention centres for foreigners. Last year, 50 young minors were interned in the CIEs, and that is totally unacceptable. A few weeks ago I would re-open the CIE of my city, Barcelona. The CIEs are cruel, inhumane and, in addition, in the present pandemic context, do not comply with health standards. We don't want CIE in my city or any city in Spain. [[Rumors]] The philosopher Simone Weil spoke of the needs of the soul. These needs of the soul are not related to physical life, but would have it with moral life. According to Simone Weil, if these needs are not met, people fall into a state more or less similar to that of death. One of these needs is the need to take root, which for Simone Weil is the most important and ignored need of the human soul. You - and I am addressing the ladies and gentlemen of VOX - want to deprive the children and adolescents who come to our country of the root, of that rooting. Not only do they deprive them of the most basic material needs, but they also steal the soul's food, and with this they consume one of the greatest possible cruelty and reveal their political project: to build a soulless world. And I am sorry to have to extend these words here to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's and Citizens' Group. We will not tire of repeating them: as long as they do not break their government pacts with VOX they will be complicit in their actions. As long as they are not able to condemn the hatred of the President of the Community of Madrid, Mrs Díaz Ayuso, who in the midst of the health crisis had the shame of relating unaccompanied minors to COVID, and are not able to break up with their VOX partners will continue to be complicit in their cruelty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u126	Thank you, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u127	A good Spaniard obeys in this Orwellian Spain they are leaving us. In the new normal it is necessary to speak neolengua and neolengua is to call `restriction to night mobility' to curfew and to MENA, unaccompanied migrant minors or children, our children. And today you come here to tell us that there are those who are using the word MENA with a clear intention of stigmatizing and relating young people with criminal behaviors. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to link these young people to criminal behaviour, their media are going to do so. [[Shows several press headlines as you speak]] 'Mena's crime is increasing in Madrid, three out of four minors are already detained.' 'Mena groups drive the rise of 200 % of robberies in the Center'. 'The crime in Casa de Campo is growing by 611% and the police attribute it to the opening of a MENA centre.' 'They see the face of a young man with sticks, pinchos and ropes next to Sweden Street in San Blas'. I really don't ask you to believe me. They create their media. [[Applauds]] I don't ask you to believe me, believe the cops who report it. Don't believe me, believe the humble Spaniards who live day by day with these realities that you intend to hide. And don't believe me, believe the Swedish Socialist Party, which a few days ago rejected uncontrolled immigration as a phenomenon that lowers living conditions, exploits foreign labour and contributes to the financing of organized crime. [[Applauds]] Believe them, ladies and gentlemen. VOX had to come here to say that multiculturalism has failed. Multiculturalism has failed in Europe and multiculturalism has failed in Spain. Multiculturalism works very well at the University of Cambridge, in Harvard, in the United Parliamentary Group We can, on the boards of the multinationals, in the jet-set of Manhattan and in the golf courses of La Moraleja, but it works very badly in the humble neighborhoods It works fatal in the Puche, it works very badly in Nijar, it works very badly in El Raval, in El Fraile de Tenerife, in Batán, in San Isidro, in San Blas, in La Mina, in Tunte. [[applause]] Precisely in San Blas, La Mina and Tunte, where neighbors, sick of abuse, theft and beatings, came out to protest spontaneously. And this is what you have achieved, ladies and gentlemen: self-organized neighbours coming out to defend themselves from the aggression of those who have turned their neighbourhoods into centres of multicultural terror. They're Spaniards, ladies and gentlemen, defending themselves from you. [[Applauds]] It is the humble people, the people of the working-class neighborhoods defending themselves from a parasitic caste that imposes from their urbanizations with private security, ladies and gentlemen, the goodness of multiculturalism that they are doing so much harm; a caste that destroys their neighborhoods by talking about tolerance from places where every night is quiet, from places where there is no okupas, where there is no patera floors, where the rapes in herd do not exist, and where the only immigrant who enters is cleaning their pool. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of progress, the multiculturalism that you defend, like so many things that you defend, has been decided on boards of great multinationals. If everything you defend, ladies and gentlemen of progress, you send it from above. It has been decided by elites of powerful people who are interested in the invasion of migration, conflict and slave labour, and in addition the Spaniards are realizing and removing the blindfolds. But it is that, moreover, you speak in your non-law proposal of the best interests of the child, that the public administrations have to act according to the best interests of the child. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the best interests of MENA are? Being with your family, in your village, do not lose your culture your identity and be able to study and train to make your country a better place. [[applause]] However, those who stigmatize you are VOX, but we will not stop defending the neighbors who are helpless by you. We are not going to do this, we are not going to stop defending civilization, truth, goodness, wealth, Spanish and European cultural identity. Europe ages unsolved and is why its leaders use it to accept the erosion of borders, sovereignty, communities and nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u128	Mrs. De Meer, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u129	Maeztu said to be is to defend ourselves, and to that we have come, to defend what we are as an alternative to their cultural suicide. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u130	Thank you, Mrs. De Meer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ortiz Galván has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u131	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing a GNP to improve care for unaccompanied foreign minors in our country. We talk about unaccompanied migrant minors, we talk about boys and girls who are abandoned by their families on the border of our country. If in Spain we act with a strict protocol in defense of the child, why don't we do the same with unaccompanied foreign minors? The Law on the Legal Protection of Children, the United Nations Convention and international agreements such as the one signed between Spain and Morocco must be complied with. In GNP there are two points that we are discussing. In the first, which must be worked to prevent and eradicate stigmatizing behaviour, we fully agree. It's not good to generalize. This is very good for the Socialist Party partners, for the extreme left that Podemos represents, and also for the extreme right of VOX. Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, are you all making fraudulent use of public subsidies, as you supposedly did who was your candidate in Andalusia, Mr Serrano, for more than EUR 2 million? I understand you don't, do I? That there's a thief doesn't mean they're all thieves. So why do you constantly say that migrants and foreign minors tend to be terrorists or criminals? You can give opinions, ladies and gentlemen, as could not be less, but you cannot spray or even get to xenophobia, as is often the case with you. And with regard to the second point of the proposal, also fully agree, because that is what we have been saying from the People's Group, that we have to help the Autonomous Communities. It is high time that the Government assumed its responsibilities in the area of migration, because they were exclusively Government. One minute more can be tolerated than under the umbrella of the care policy that is the competence of the autonomous communities, the Government hides its head. There are the good words, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, but here we do not come to pass the time; here we come to offer real solutions to the problems that this country has and in the matter that we are discussing we miss out on specific issues such as putting back the aid to the Autonomous Communities that the Socialist Government and that of Podemos have eliminated. [[Mr. Anguita Pérez makes negative signs]] Yes, you've eliminated them. In Andalusia you have removed 26 million euros to care for foreign minors. But, on the other hand, do you know what the response of the People's Party was? Invest 18 million euros of own funds to care for unaccompanied foreign minors. [[Applauds]] That is the difference, ladies and gentlemen, between the left and the People's Party, which the left invites but others pay, and we where we govern assume our powers and, moreover, with note. Do you know which party governs in Algeciras, whose mayor has not hesitated to open in full state alarm a pavilion to care for migrants? The People's Party. Do you know what party Melilla ruled when a titanic effort was made to school all unaccompanied foreign minors and to sign agreements to promote vocational training when they turn sixteen? The People's Party. And do you know which party runs in Ceuta, an autonomous city where there are nothing but three centers to care for unaccompanied foreign minors? The People's Party. The People's Party, Your Honor, is the party focused on people, solutions and law enforcement, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we invite you to reflect also on your immigration policy to avoid, for example, what is happening in the Canary Islands. And with great humility we also ask you to reflect on your governing partners. You share table and tablecloth with the PNV, a party that says that there is no need to distinguish between regular and irregular migration and that there is a need to be tolerant. The same party that says Basques have supremacy over others by negative Rh. You also consider, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, a preferential partner to Esquerra Republicana, which says 'papers for all', but at the same time claims that there is a border between Catalonia and Spain or says silly things of great importance like that the genetic distance is greater from north to south, marking genetic differences between Spanish and Catalans. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, move away from the extreme left and return to common sense, to moderation also in the migration of the hand of the People's Party. Let's be serious and responsible. We're talking about boys and girls, let's leave the demagogy and populism. In this position it has always been, is and will be the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Ortiz. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Anguita, do you accept some of the amendments tabled by your group?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u133	We appreciate the contributions of the groups, but we will keep the initial text.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u134	All right, thank you very much. The non-legislative proposal shall be voted on in its terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u135	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the measures that the Government is taking or intends to take to try to stop the continuing fall of population in Spain and to avoid the serious problem of territorial depopulation, as well as to correct the social and economic inequalities in its rural areas. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion and of the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Two weeks have passed since I called on the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Demographic Challenge, Mrs Ribera Rodríguez, and the passage of the days has exacerbated what is for Spain one of its main problems of the present and also of the future. The day that passes is wasted and irrecoverable time to attack the perverse effects of depopulation and all its derivatives, including the abandonment of the rural environment that I described in the course of the debate and which concerns us all. This has been pointed out in the initiatives that have been presented and also in the work already carried out in past legislatures in the General Courts, especially in the Senate in a special committee that studied and analyzed the problem. There is a widespread awareness of the enormous scale of the demographic problem facing Spain and a very broad basic consensus is perceived. The ensuing motion for an inquiry therefore calls on the Government, first of all, to sponsor a state pact that reflects the need to continuously undertake the development of comprehensive measures to correct and halt the constant fall of population in Spain, to avoid territorial depopulation and to correct the enormous social and economic inequalities in rural areas. This pact of State does not allow any further delay and the Government should already promote it, both because of the urgency of the matter and because of the political, institutional, scientific, academic and social perception of its dimension and of the need to reinforce the main measures to which we are called by the enormous scale of the demographic challenge in Spain; a country which, unlike the rest of the world, will lose several million inhabitants by the middle of this twenty-first century. Ladies and gentlemen, another section of this anti-depopulation initiative urges the Government to speed up and move forward in the implementation of the measures envisaged in the National Strategy on the demographic challenge, because, it is true that it has been committed to its approval by the end of 2020, it is not understandable that we are talking about an agreement dating from the Sixth Conference of Presidents in January 2017 and that, although there was a change of government in mid-2018, there are guidelines and measures that are unquestionable, immobile, irrefutable and palmar. I again call for the implementation of the demographic strategy and for its development and results to be assessed every six months before the Congress of Deputies within the Committee on the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, another point in the motion concerns a crucial aspiration for Spain, as it is to curb the loss of population and promote the policy of supporting families. To this end, it is important to draw up a birth promotion plan which includes, among other things, direct economic aid, tax deductions by birth or adoption of children and financing the expenditure of newborns during their first months of life. There are a number of countries in the European Union that have been successfully implementing these kinds of plans to help families have children and raise them, and we should take them as a model in this fight against the loss of population that has on Asturias the perfect storm, but not the climatological one but the result of a constant drop in population since 1983, the most accused of Spain, in which the emigration of our young people also affects the destruction of productive activity and the lack of jobs. This is reflected in an incontrovertible fact: year after year for more than a decade Asturias has occupied the red lighthouse in the national labour force rate, that is, the Asturians who work or are looking for work. Finally, since this depopulation and low birth rate are absolutely indisputable and emergency problems, I demand that this birth promotion plan be submitted to the General Courts within six months, it will not be possible to model the last demographic occurrence of the Asturian Socialist Government which, instead of promoting the productive fabric, intends to repopulate the countryside with a customer-based home help service and confusing people with potatoes. That's how it goes, stays and stays in Asturias. I regret that the amendment tabled to the alimon by the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common deletes any reference to this birth plan. They will already explain to us how to stimulate the birth of children in Spain. The motion also raises a fourth point, which is the need to adopt specific tax provisions to stop depopulation. It is fair to equate fiscal burdens with the level of access to public services in rural municipalities and that these charges are prepared on the basis of objective data on loss of inhabitants and income levels. There is a second parallel objective, such as to stimulate and improve entrepreneurial activity to create employment in small Spanish population groups. Finally, I was tempted to incorporate in this motion an added point, let us say that collateral, to prevent the Ministry of Agriculture from consuming the nonsense of implementing a real decree with rules for the sustainable nutrition of agricultural soils, which would lead to the disappearance of thousands of livestock farms of the cantabrian cornice - Galicia, Asturias, Cantabria and the Basque Country - and other parts of Spain. I did not alter myself because last week, with the end of the authorized period, I presented allegations of character - let us say - population to the aforementioned draft royal decree so that the ministry would reconsider rules that, if approved and carried out, would mean the lethal slap, the irreversible blow to one of the sectors that keep many of our peoples alive. In any case, this issue also warns us of the lack of coordination between the various departments of the Government, because it is inconceivable that regulations are intended to have a direct impact on this problem of the depopulation of our rural areas and that they do not go beyond the size of the demographic challenges we are facing. In conclusion, I would like to draw the attention of the Government to this matter in order to avoid the domino effect of measures which are absolutely inadequate for the survival of the rural environment in certain territories and regions of our country. Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you also to the parliamentary groups which have tabled amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Martínez Granados is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u138	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again dealing with a very important issue which is still awaiting a response from this House: depopulation. Ladies and gentlemen, although we are no longer in an electoral campaign, the rural world is still being emptied into forced marches without the Government today taking steps to prevent it. It seems a lie that we have the most expensive government in history, no less than with twenty-two ministries, and that we are not able to work on such urgent issues as the one we are dealing with today. We are experiencing a crisis that must certainly be the priority, but that does not mean that the rulers stop paying attention to so many issues that were already urgent before the pre-VOCID reality and that, suddenly, they have been abandoned, abandoned and not to do anything else or to deal with the pandemic because to date what the Government has been doing since before the holidays is to wash their hands and pass the hot potato to the autonomous communities in the fight against the coronavirus and that cannot be. From here I would like to thank Mr Martínez Oblanca for his question to the minister because initiatives like these are the ones that we need to bring to this House. This House should be full of initiatives such as this, which make policy useful, those which seek to solve the real problems of the citizens and which in this case focus their efforts on so many citizens of the rural world who see each day how they are more and more forgotten, and we cannot allow this. As far as I am concerned, I do not like to talk about the rural world as Spain emptied because, as has been said many times in this House, our rural world has many values that fill it, the effort of people who get up before dawn and go home after sunset, those who dedicate their lives to agriculture and livestock, either directly or indirectly, work three hundred and sixty-five days a year sometimes in activities that hardly give them room to live, with very little profit in sectors that also need a lot of support and that are not always in the minds of their representatives, people for whom we continue to work from my parliamentary group. And what about our farmers and farmers, who need much more than Royal Decree 5/2020, that royal decree that was passed before the COVID-19 and that has not solved any of the problems that farmers explained to us in the mobilizations they made just before the pandemic. A text that does not serve much, nothing more than for you to put on empty medals and do propaganda and posture. It's a real shame and believe me, I'm sorry for all the people behind it. But rural Spain is much more than agriculture and livestock; it is tourism, culture, history, heritage and gastronomy and it can be a fundamental axis of development, wealth creation and employment if you bet strong on it because they have limbs for it. Ladies and gentlemen, since Citizens, we have tabled amendments to this motion because not only is it a matter of putting a candlestick in man's life, but we can get a much more ambitious text that is in line with what the Spaniards are asking us to do. We believe that the plan to combat depopulation must be comprehensive, cannot be left alone in the activities being carried out there, must look to the future, exploit its potential for attraction and take into account the measures of tax incentives, incentives for entrepreneurs and reconciliation, which bet on the encouragement of the establishment of processing industries that complement the primary sector and that further improve basic public services. In short, let it be global and not loose patches. All these amendments aim to improve this text in this sense: flat rate for women and young people of 30 euros for two years when they start their activity and reduction in the IRPF for people who go to live there or are living there and work there. But if there is one thing that must be the first step of all, the one that sustains all the others, is to improve connectivity. If we really want to combat depopulation and give our rural Spain a future, we must close the digital divide. My group believes that the European Union's recovery funds can be a great opportunity to put an end to this deficiency once and for all and that we can really develop the whole rest of the plan to put an end to depopulation once and for all. Because without quality Internet it is not only that rural Spain empties itself of people, it is empty of opportunities. In Citizens we take this serious problem very seriously, we will continue to try to provide solutions in this House and work to stop looking at our peoples with nostalgia and start seeing them with hope. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Mrs Franco Carmona has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u140	Thank you, President. Mr. Oblanca, the truth is that I didn't expect much of this motion, but you have exceeded my low expectations. His motion is nothing more than a recidivism in the policies of the People's Party; more of the same, after all, simple tax cuts, and now. It is precisely this 'ya' that has caused enormous institutional neglect of rural areas. And excuse me, it is true that in the elections they are presented on the ballot of the People's Party, but the truth is that it seems that this motion has been made by the People's Party, which, if I tell you the truth, knowing the situation they have in the Asturias Forum, I would not be surprised. On the other hand, he has many inaccuracies. He says we're just over 45 million people, but those data are from 2006, Mr. Oblanca. According to the INE, in January of this year we were more than 47 million inhabitants, that is 2 million more people living in Spain than in 2006. This blatantly contradicts his theory of the constant fall of the population. But the truth is that more people and more tax cuts need not involve fixing the population in unpopulated areas. You know why? Because our territories are not emptied by a lack of population, but by the urban centre logics and the neglect of many governments for too many years. Moreover, it is necessary to make clear what is said in the motions. I say that because he says they're going to fight the unpopulated areas. What have unpopulated areas done to him? I think what you wanted to say is that you are going to fight against territorial emptying policies, which is something that you should be clear about. That concept should be clear, Oblanca, please. [[The Lord]] Do you really believe that a bonus fosters birth? Those are the proposals that VOX brought here a few months ago to Congress. Those are more than the same failed policies. I already tell you that a small reduction in IRPF when you're precarious serves absolutely nothing. And what about people who decide that they don't want to have children or that they can't have children? There is nothing in their motion on labour stability, on economic security, on public care policies and on promoting co-responsibility, so that women stop carrying out this invisible and unpaid work of care, and on free and public day care from zero to three years. It's a proposal, let me tell you, quite heteropatriarchal. I tell you one thing that does serve you: the increase in the child benefit that this Government has guaranteed with the minimum living income. That's a good thing. [[Applauds]] He talks about equalizing tax burdens with public services, and that is just taking money from the autonomous communities and the municipalities to offer services to their citizens. But there is nothing again about good public transport services that follow a mesh approach, the need for housing rehabilitation, the creation of a public housing park in rural areas, and close access to public and basic services, such as health centres, emergencies, schools and institutes, markets or cultural activities. That's not what he's talking about. However, its members of the People's Party do cut into emergencies and health centres and primary care, at least in my land, in Andalusia. He talks about stimulating and encouraging entrepreneurship. Again, however, it does not have any fair price for the agri-food sector, nor any co-ownership or economic investment to diversify productive activity in rural areas, green industry or broadband extension. I'm done. We have presented an alternative text for the adoption of a national strategy on population challenges and for the adoption of a plan for the reactivation of depopulated areas, measures that were already adopted in this Parliament a few months ago and in which the Government is working. We already know that they will not accept this amendment and we will therefore vote against the motion. In the meantime, we will work for economic and social reconstruction and the recovery of rural areas, because the demographic issue and depopulation is the great challenge of territorial vertebration that our country has. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u141	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Requejo Novoa has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u142	[[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]] Depopulation: third time in Congress and could use the first speech. Everything remains the same, with parsimony, as Isidro says. Castile and Leon die slowly, 14,300 more dead than births in 2019. I'm gonna try to be more pedagogic. What does a Spaniard from a rural area need to stay in his village and another from the city to come live in the countryside? My province has been told many times: we need work. The work will not be able to create this state with five-year plans, as it would like at the communist level of this government. We're not going to fall out of the sky either. We need flexibility, imagination and entrepreneurship. This can only be done by each person with his or her freedom and will, whether he or she is an entrepreneur, a self-employed person, a worker, a farmer or a farmer. The early Spain now needs a system of tax exemptions in Spain that allows it to found a family and settle in the countryside. It does not need subsidies or subsidies that will be late, it needs that the State does not express them before starting. [[Applauds]] In the previous urgent motion it was agreed to define areas of demographic priority, that is, to define, once and for all, what is your emptied Spain. The association triumvirate SSPA, of which Mr. Guitarte is a distinguished part, has developed one called Map 174. According to the reply given to me on 22 September, the Government is preparing another map. I'll tell them to stop dizzying. That map already exists and was presented by the Ombudsman in his report The demographic situation of Spain of 2018, based on the LAU accepted by Europe since 2016. According to this map, 54% of Spain would be depopulated and house less than 5% of the population. The question is: Does this million-and-a-half-long Spanish deserve a tax exemption regime that allows them to take care of more than half of the national territory? Can we afford it? Barato would get us out. Unpopulated Spain is not only three provinces, it is in forty-four. Europe has the mechanisms to help unpopulated areas through Article 174 TFEU, but this government, as the only valid interlocutor with the European Union, needs to ask for it with this map in hand. Attention, because in the previous period 2014-2020 all of Spain was excluded from these funds. For this we go the same way, especially when it gets complicated with the funds of the COVID, the countries of the East, the green turn of the green deal, etc. We don't despise help that can come, but I prefer tax exemptions. It is necessary to respect the agriculture that vertebrates the countryside, and not go with an urbanity mentality to expand the city where it does not belong. The food industry is giving us good service in this pandemic, it is essential to maintain food sovereignty. Agriculture is much more productive with water. It is only by the effect of irrigation that the population doubles, so that a national hydrological plan that orders the uses of water is urgently needed, recovering hydroelectric concessions that are about to expire, enhancing pumping reservoirs that allow to devote part of the water to agriculture and recovering our forests, a project according to the decarbonising demands of Europe. [[Applauds]] Inexorably, if we're talking about depopulation, we have to talk about a birth plan. In the previous motion, he had disappeared. Thank you, Mr. Martínez Oblanca for bringing him back. A birth plan is not to force anyone to have children, it is to help anyone who wants to have them; children who will pay the pensions of those who are now opposed. It is recognizing parents that raising a child costs a lot of effort and money, it is realizing that children are a social good and the best future project for this country. [[Applauds]] Birth is encouraged in Europe. I am not going to catch for you countries as successful at this point as Hungary, but a much greener one, to your liking, Germany. I have lived in Germany for seven years, and a family with three children receives 7416 euros a year; this is help. Another key point is housing, a rehabilitation plan. Paradoxically, in Spain there is no decent housing. If we get work and protect birth, we'll get people from the city to the countryside and everything will come in addition: better transportation, better services, more schools, better health and with pediatricians. We will be able to improve the forests and all this list of good wishes of the previous motion that seem... [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Requejo. Your time's up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor for the People's Party in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we are discussing the urgent need for a state policy that will address and reverse the depopulation in Spain. I am not going to refer to the need for the consensus of the political forces of this House, because it was recorded in the Diario de Sesiones last 24 June, when we all approve of urging the Government to approve a state pact towards a vertebrate Spain and four months later the dream of the righteous still falls asleep. What I am going to mention is the inaction of this government: twenty-nine months without taking a step forward on depopulation. God alone knows what would be of this challenge if a People's Party Government had not put it on the political agenda, in the official newsletter and even in the general budgets of the State. I congratulate you, Mr. Martínez Oblanca, on the opportunity of your motion to inaction by this Government and to advance you that our vote will be in favour. You said as a caller that there was no leadership to coordinate the territorial cohesion that we all want, and I share that. You will share with us who misled Sánchez with Ribera by crowning her as Vice-President, and I refer to the evidence, because she chained only a few failures as coordinator of the descalation that led us to a rapid new normality advised by the fake group of experts and as proponent of the climate change law that has brought to this House late, without consensus and without any ambition, and proof of this is that more than 700 amendments have been submitted to this draft. But perhaps what my group regrets most is that, being the minister of the sector, she has not chosen rural Spain as the spearhead of that green growth and a just transition. The minister, who is entertained in deleting her past from the Transparency Portal with a click, what she cannot erase so easily is her responsibility for the demographic challenge. Last week in this very rostrum, to justify its service sheet on depopulation, was attributed without blush some subjects and policies that are of the People's Party. In fact, it has published a reissue of the broadband pact that is the 300x100 Program of the People's Party, which with more than 500 million euros, the government of Mariano Rajoy was left budgeted to tend to end the digital divide: 300 megabytes per second to 100 percent of the territory. [[Applauds]] However, the minister has not been able to convene this broadband plan. It has left 50 million unallocated and twelve provinces of Spain out. She's all-powerful, she talks to all the electricians and the big operators, but you have to be divine and you have to get down to earth, you have to know the territory and talk to the little ones. Those who have left out are the small operators, who are the ones who can take the Internet to the small villages. That's why Huesca and Teruel have also stayed out. I would like to know what Mr Guitarte thinks of this and, at the same time, to ask him: Please, to these general budgets of the State sells dearly their vote of support to the Socialcommunist Government; some are already doing so. I believe that a vertebrate Spain, where all Spaniards are equal, wherever they live, is well worth it. What Mrs Ribera does have is a budgetless General Secretariat, a delegated government committee that has never met and even a sectoral conference with the autonomous communities to which she has submitted a short draft demographic challenge strategy. It is less than the guidelines that the People's Party left them with copyright and that you, ladies and gentlemen, only had to take to the official newsletter. It seeks, as a means of co-governance to which this Government has accustomed us, that the autonomous communities do the work of it. If everything goes well, Sanchez wears the medal, and, if not, it is the fault of this state dissociated from autonomy, which does not do its duties. The People's Party will not resign and will not resign. We amend this motion to link the Reconstruction Funds to plans and projects that will run through Spain. The strategy against the demographic challenge is vital, and it is not. It should be done, because surely this is the last train that passes to rural Spain after years of forgetfulness. The funds for the reconstruction of the COVID crisis that they have brought should serve to end a two-speed Spain. Of course, we want a Spain of all and for all and also for the rural environment, and not the truffle of amendments that have been made by the rest of the parliamentary groups, which we will, however, support, because the general interest is above all and deserves it. What we want is not to leave out our farmers and farmers, of course, because they cannot do more with less, not a euro less for the common agricultural policy; of course, to guarantee the generational relief, and yes, works, works for irrigation, which is so necessary; also a national forest management strategy that takes advantage of our forests; to promote social innovation and the re-industrialisation of unpopulated areas, and for this we need differentiated taxation; to guarantee equity in access to basic services and we propose to include the criterion of dispersion and ageing of the population when autonomous financing is approached. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u145	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Fagundez Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u146	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago all the groups in this House were able, through dialogue and negotiation, to agree on a motion to promote economic recovery and the development of territories at risk of depopulation. It had the majority support of the whole Chamber, remaining only outside, as always, the far right. This motion which brings us here today, Mr Martínez Oblanca, does not at all affect the aspects agreed at that time. It reduces in a very simplistic way the depopulation to the problem of birth, blaming and blaming women for having no children. [[Applauds]] There are two very different views in dealing with this problem. There is the theory of the right and the right, with its famous demographic winter, by which the solution to the problem of birth are baby checks, giving money to women to have children. To face the challenge of birth we have to talk about other very different things. This is a matter of social justice. We are talking about ensuring equal opportunities for all young people. It is a question of redistribution of wealth, of young people being able to access decent housing, of being able to emancipate themselves. That's what we need to talk about to solve the birth problem. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot blame half the population again for the birth problem. Better than that, I recommend that you listen, that you listen to women, because, surely, if you listened to them, you would see that most would like to have children or have more children than they have. INE data are very clear. The problems for which women no longer have children are related to wage precariousness and access to housing, all that the Labour Reform of the People's Party brought to this country, that precariousness for young people and, above all, cuts. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, we want a living rural world, yes, but we also want it on equal terms for women. [[Applauds]] The areas at risk of depopulation in our country are mainly characterized by two issues: firstly, by a lack of young people, our young people have to emigrate from their territory; secondly, by the ageing of our alarming population. And we can only reverse this circumstance if we are able to offer opportunities in the territory. Opportunity is to promote economic activity, which brings decent and stable employment to these territories. Opportunity is to offer our young people the ability to access decent housing. Opportunity is a full connectivity, not only digital connectivity - we are going to bring broadband to all these territories - but also access to infrastructures, which connect us, vertebrate and cohesive the territory. In order for a woman to have children, a family must have access to a network of quality public services in the territory. That is certainly what will give guarantees to form a family looking forward to the future with optimism. The Government had put in place a number of measures aimed at improving the quality of life, and to that end it was necessary to talk about minimum living income, improvement of child benefits, access to housing on favourable conditions for young people, policies for reconciling family and working life, improvement of children's education, access to public health. This is what we need to talk about in order to solve the birth problem. Ladies and gentlemen, for all this a great pact is now so necessary in all the territories. Before the end of the year, the Government has committed itself to bringing together the conference of presidents and in it to approve the national strategy in the face of the demographic challenge, which, together with the autonomous communities and local entities, will enable us to promote the recovery of these territories that so much need it. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to reverse the unjust situation in which most of the territories of this country and millions of people living in them find themselves. The Government has already shown that territorial cohesion is a priority and, together with Europe's reconstruction plan, we now have the capacity to vertebrate our country and improve the quality of life of all people living in territories at risk of depopulation. Our whole policy is summed up in a single sentence: Do not leave anyone behind, regardless of where they live, where they are born, the neighbors and neighbors around them. Our commitment to the rural world is firm. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to work on this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u147	Thank you very much, Mr Fagundez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor on behalf of the Basque Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u148	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that Mr Martínez Oblanca has brought us a very interesting subject but difficult to solve, depopulation. The combination of factors such as increasing life expectancy, falling birth rates or regulating migratory flows, within the right of people to migrate, has transformed, transformed and continues to transform our lifestyle. We live in an ageing society. It is growing, increasingly dependent and increasingly requires more services. In addition, ageing impacts on health and health care, social services, the composition and organization of our families, our environments, intergenerational solidarity and housing. In any case, this motion and the question of the demographic challenge itself relate to two problems which, while related to each other, are not the same issue, namely, on the one hand, demographic decline, low birth rate, and, on the other hand, depopulation in rural areas. There is the possibility that, by means of incentives, political support for protection, by a number of proposals that have been made in this House, we will achieve an increase in birth rate, but at the same time we will continue to have the problem of rural depopulation, that is, to increase the population in very concrete, even massive, urban concentrations, and to continue to solve the problem of what you call emptied Spain. Let us therefore differentiate and analyse both the problem and the solutions, let us seek solutions at both ends. Seeing this initiative I have remembered - my colleague Idoia Sagastizabal has told me - the appearance that Mr Izquierdo Vallina, commissioned for the demographic challenge in the Government of the Principality of Asturias, made in this house in the Commission for Economic Reconstruction, and told us that the prescriptions to overcome the demographic challenge do not exist, that in Europe the demographic challenge is said to be an equation with a thousand unknowns, therefore very difficult to solve, and that Europe is increasingly the old Europe, not only because of its historical consideration, but because of the real situation of a very old territory. It seems that the pandemic has highlighted the need to change life and seek more reasonable habits, the value of local and rural, that is, in the face of everything that so far has made cities the centre of attention, it seems that this pandemic has made us want to return, return to rural. But, of course, the rural is perhaps not in a position to welcome many people who from a perspective even bucolic would like to come back. It is a challenge for the depopulation that we share and that needs to be addressed. Entering your motion, you propose three points. In any case, first of all, Mrs Franco, the partner of Podemos, I would like to say that one thing is that you are now in the government and another is that you suddenly almost deny the existence of the population decline. Until two days ago you yourselves criticized this series of issues, and I think it is very good too. On the one hand, you're talking about a state pact. He knows that we are not of state covenants, because they are not effective and because they are usually generalists and usually remain in a drawer. You talk about developing measures to prevent depopulation, the fall of the population, and in that we can agree. Moreover, we believe that even the autonomous communities should rethink the models of territorial distribution of repopulation in some places. In Euskadi, for example, the countryside is very close to the cities, it is a reality. It has all the services and the quality of life in the field is very good. But also, regardless of the geographical situation, it has relied on rural development programmes, which are an indispensable and sustainable planning and management instrument emanating from the Rural Development Act, and this each autonomous community has developed as best it has agreed. In any case, someone should do a great examination of conscience and play a very strong mea guilt for the panorama and landscape existing in the current Spanish state. The exacerbated metropolisism of all the governments that have passed through here, the centrifugal force of Madrid as almost the only area of business, businesses, transactions, job opportunities, large corporations, services, transport, etc., has exercised enormous vacuum for everything that surrounded it, leaving an empty moor around it immensely. Everything for Madrid. Well, look, this is the result. But, as I said, this is not resolved by a state pact, but by collaborating in projects and taking into account the experiences in more advanced regional policies of the autonomous communities, which, like Euskadi, have been working, and with good results.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u149	Mr. Agirretxea, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u150	Yes, Madam President. We'd have more questions to ask, but I'm going to finish. I think we need to look for policies that know how to combine rural with urban, but, in turn, also incentives for people to...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u152	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG considers it essential to work with a living rural and to avoid depopulation, but the starting point for achieving this is for us different. The motion bets on birth policies that we consider to be outdated, in addition to ineffective, and others of a fiscal nature that can be complementary but that do not address the cause of the problem. To begin with, there is no uniform single solution, since the social and economic structure of the rural environment is different in Galicia and the rest of the territories. That is why it is essential that we in my country have real decision-making capacity in order to be able to implement policies that are appropriate to our reality. In any case, the key to maintaining a rural life is to enable people to live in dignity and rural activity, especially agricultural activity. That is the basis, rural development, as it is to provide basic services - health, education, communications, etc. - and quality public services that are fully accessible. We therefore understand that there are other policies that need to be taken to achieve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u154	Many thanks, President, for your generosity. The crux of the question of this motion is written in the first point, that is, correcting inequalities. That is the primary cause of depopulation, inequality, and to fix it are the BOE, the DOGV, the official newspapers of the autonomous communities, because there is no private initiative, there is no market, and there must necessarily be public initiative. For example, in the Valencian country, the Valencian Government has installed one hundred and twenty cashiers in villages where the banks had disappeared and has maintained sixty-two schools in villages where if they had ruled others they would have actually disappeared. Example: Galicia, birthplace of Verín, who wanted to make himself disappear. That does cause inequality. That does cause depopulation. Ways of governing: left, right. Secondly, to correct this inequality - I do not want to spend time - territorial projects from below, with the participation of local actors. That's what would make up for inequality. Thank you very much, President. I don't give a second.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. I thank both of you for your speech from the seat. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u156	Good afternoon, President. The problem of the demographic challenge can be said to have become a perennial problem in our society. We invest time in analyzing and studying about it. In 2019, the Council of Ministers approved the general guidelines of the national strategy in response to the demographic challenge. That strategy has been developed and we are currently waiting for it to be adopted before the end of the year. In my opinion, much talk about one of the most important problems in our society, but today few measures implemented by the Government to alleviate, curb and respond to this situation. We have identified the factors that motivate rural depopulation, such as low birth rate; demographic ageing; difficulties facing the generational relief, which is very important in the agricultural sector; lack of services and opportunities; little investment in infrastructure and connectivity; loss of young talent, difficulty in attracting them; and work with high seasonality. On 19 February, the presence of the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Transitional Ecological and Demographic Challenge was celebrated, in order to inform and explain the general lines of action of her department. The attendance lasted 1 hour and 30 minutes and only spent seven minutes talking about the demographic challenge. During the same period, the minister stated that it must be ensured that everyone can live wherever he wants with equal opportunities and services with respect to other places. For this to happen, we must push for action, also from the Government, because, if not, it always falls on the same shoulders: the local authorities. It is clear to me, and I can confirm this, that the mayors of small towns who suffer from the problem of depopulation are reinventing themselves to save the rural school because without school there is a future; they make enormous efforts to maintain the only store of groceries they have in the municipality; with their own resources they make the deployment of fiber optics to make these villages more attractive. They are just real examples of day-to-day municipalities that want to follow, despite everything, existing. We don't have time. Political action must be stepped up; do so, but do it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Good night. The phenomenon of depopulation or exodus from the rural world is a global phenomenon that affects in a very special way certain areas of the Spanish State. The regional imbalance, resulting from this depopulation, generates and increases enormous economic inequalities between territories. A recent study by the Centre d'Estudis Demogràfics and the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, The demographic sustainability of empty Spain, by Joaquín Recaño, points out some keys that question the sustainability of many of the municipalities considered small in the Spanish state. As of 1 January 2016, 60% of the Spanish municipalities had fewer than 1000 inhabitants, occupied 40% of the area and barely concentrated 3.1% of the population. In Catalonia, municipalities with less than 2000 inhabitants account for almost 63% of the total number of municipalities, 64% of the territorial area and, despite this, only 4.5% of the population. To make these municipalities viable and sustainable, it is essential to ensure access to mobility and connectivity services so that living in the rural world does not make it impossible to develop productive activities specific to the new models of work. The demographic sustainability of this heterogeneous set of rural municipalities hangs on a thread and poses a first-class demographic challenge that must be taken into account in the implementation of public policies of its great diversity. The depopulation process is the result of the interaction of different causes and therefore its treatment requires a cross-sectional and integral management in all its complexity. We believe that addressing this problem requires a change in the territorial model of development, from a centralized model that only favours large cities to another decentralized model that gives prominence to other territorial nodes. This means rebalancing the territory and, therefore, means redistributing its infrastructure. We cannot tackle the fight against rural depopulation without taking into account that small and medium-sized enterprises and farming ensure that the population is fixed in rural areas. Therefore, by applying agricultural policies alone, we do not solve the problem; we must provide aid and make development policies. In rural areas, businesses, electricians, plumbers, mechanics, managers, consultants, carpenters are also needed. In short, service companies are needed. The main objective of rural development policies must be the fixing of the population in the territory, and in this sense our group considers these aspects essential: the central role of women and young people, who are the ones who really guarantee generational relief and demographic regeneration; the improvement of infrastructures - transport, public services, schools, clinics, doctors, roads -; the improvement of connectivity. We need to break the digital divide that particularly affects micro-people; we need to take advantage of teleworking because it opens a window for the reactivation of the most punished territories, but this requires first-rate connectivity, so we need to strengthen Internet access, strengthen regional public transport, renew roads and bet on rebalancing the territory. I ended up with a reflection. Madrid is today the epicenter of all major infrastructure projects and the headquarters of all major public companies and most private ones. Madrid is also the most belligerent right-wing political laboratory against redistributive policies and the engine of resource absorption practices through a system of tax incentives for large companies in the rest of the state to transfer their headquarters to the capital; absorption of economic resources that generates labour absorption. Madrid is today the sink through which the population of rural Spain is emptied. In view of the obvious basis of the problem, we agree with Mr Martínez. We disagree with the proposed measures and will not support them. According to our group, we need, on the one hand, a cross-cutting and comprehensive management in all its complexity and, on the other, to apply the principle of subsidiarity. It should be the same territories that should develop strategic plans on the basis of knowledge and identified needs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs. Granollers. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u160	Yes, Madam President. I have just presented to the Bureau a compromise amendment signed by the People's, Citizens', VOX and myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u161	All right. The vote will take place on the terms of the compromise amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the solutions the Government is planning to provide to ensure water supply to the cities around Santander Bay [[LORD MAZÓN RAMOS]] [[SANTANDER, SANTA CRUZ DE BEZANA, CAMARGO AND ASTILLERO]] [[File number 173/000036]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u162	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, on the solutions that the Government intends to provide to guarantee the water supply to the municipalities around Santander Bay: Santander, Santa Cruz de Bezana, Camargo and Astillero. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good night. Two weeks ago I asked the fourth vice-president about the measures she planned to take to guarantee and permanently solve the water supply problem we have in Cantabria, Santander and its region. And by the way, I brought him the easy solution he had in his hands. Ladies and gentlemen, there is this problem despite the fact that there is more rain in Cantabria than in other regions, and neither do we have water which, precisely, absorbs the highest percentage of water consumption in Spain, but we have a serious problem, especially in the summer, when we really do not have enough water. I also explained here what is the easy solution, which is the Ebro reservoir. The Ebro reservoir is a 540-hectare cubic swamp, built at the head of the river, at the foot of the Cantabria mountains. I recalled that to build it more than eighty years ago it was necessary to occupy an area of 65 square kilometers, which at the time was the largest extension that had ever been occupied for a reservoir; large vegas were occupied, four villages were flooded, industries, farms were buried; finally, thousands of neighbors were expropriated and evicted from their homes and expropriations ended up being paid in 1950 at the prices of 1928, despite the multiple promises made for more than twenty years that they would be paid in an up-to-date manner. That was the ruin of the region. One example is that, shortly after filling the swamp's waters, the Spanish Crystalry factory in Arija, famous for its sands, closed and caused the loss of more than 3000 direct and indirect jobs in the region. I do not want to go further on this issue today, what I do want to remember is that we have a good opportunity in this Congress to compensate in part for those abuses in the figure of the descendants of all those people who lived in those places and who had to leave when they lost their lands and their jobs. What do we ask in this motion? I would like to point out that we have reached a compromise amendment with the Group of the European People's Party, the Socialist Group and Podemos, and I will now tell you what its characteristics are briefly. Firstly, a transfer of 4.99 cubic metres to Cantabria, which accounts for less than 1 % of the reservoir capacity, to activate it when necessary. Secondly, a special authorisation of 25 cubic metres, which is less than 5 %, and which in the current legislation is possible by returning water to the swamp. For this you can use the facilities of the bitrasvase, which are built. Thirdly, that these needs of Cantabria be considered in the hydrological planning that is under way, in agreement with the affected autonomous communities and other affected sectors. This thing we're asking for is nothing special. In Spain there are numerous transfers and, in particular, in the Ebro basin I already gave two examples last week. For example, water is transferred from the Ebro basin of the Ullibari-Gamboa marsh, which comes from the waters of the Zadorra River, to supply the great Bilbao. In Catalonia we have another example, the transfer that goes from the Ebro to the Campo de Tarragona has an authorization of 126 cubic hectometers per year. The water that goes to the sea, to give us an idea, is on average about 8,800 cubic hectometers, that is, we are asking 25, that they are water that falls in Cantabria, that above comes from the reservoir of the Ebro and that, practically, it will never involve any loss of water that flows through the river Ebro. What we ask is what is called euphemistically water to drink, which is not precisely the one that has to be brought to the mouth, but which is the one that serves to meet the basic needs of a population. The minister, in a complete response to the inquiry, cited three possibilities, even said that they were compatible with each other and, although in the end she stated that she was committed to guaranteeing water to Santander, she cited other possible solutions; solutions that, on the other hand, we already know because they are very expensive and inefficient, technically intractable, in the end, which cannot be assumed by the Cantabria government. That is why we have focused on the three realistic options discussed that day. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a matter of solidarity and common sense. That is why we must explain it well, because we already know that water is a very passionate element in many parts of the planet, but we must remember that in this case no one will get hurt. I'd like to set an example. Imagine a large bathtub that has water at 50%, but never drops by 20% and sometimes overflows. This is the example of the swamp. The swamp historically never drops by 20% - for many years - that is, that there are always 100 and up to 500 hectares. Therefore, the oscillation of the average we could spend between the minimum and the maximum, assuming it never overflowed, would be worth thirty years. This is so we know what we're talking about. The other day I said it was misery and today we can practically say the same thing. It is important to tell, above all, to the deputies of the communities where the Ebro passes, who have their difficulties for the things I have said; for example, Castile and León - where there are fewer -, Basque Country, Navarre, Aragon and Catalonia. I think the rivers should serve to unite us. They used to serve as borders, but now with so much bridge it is no longer necessary for them to be borders. In addition, this is an example of something totally sustainable, because they already see the amounts we talk about. The Ebro reservoir I think is the best example of solidarity that we have in Spain, because water is taken out practically only when it is used. I always set another example. Imagine that rich families could never transfer part of their wealth to the poor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u164	Mr. Mazón, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u165	I'm done with the example.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u166	It just has to end now.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u167	Well, it would be very unfair for the rich never to happen to the poor, especially when they take advantage of their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u168	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To defend the amendments made by your groups, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Castillo López, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u169	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by asking Mr Mazón, the proposer of this motion, a question. Mr. Mazón, who has to guarantee water to the municipalities of Santander Bay and, consequently, to all the municipalities of Cantabria? You and I know it has to be the government of Cantabria. It was said that the wars of the future would be because of water. We could not imagine that this future was already here, let alone that a regionalist and socialist government was going to cause Cantabria to have supply problems. If you want peace to prepare for war, the ancients said, but in parliamentary war we continue because of the supply of Cantabria, Mr. Mazón. The cantabres wonder what will be the next occurrence of their boss, Mr. Revilla. In the summer of 2017 I said: They won't take the water away from us, I'll get into the swamp if I have to. [[shows a press clipping]] Later, he described all of this as the water scandal, as if it were not with him. Now perhaps it is possible to edit textbooks such as those in North Korea where schoolchildren learn that when it rains it is because it is decreed by the great leader, the president. We don't have to see that anymore. The reality is that the Regional Socialist Executive has not had clear ideas, has not been able to provide Cantabria with a definitive solution. Every year Santander - mainly - lives the same horror film, but a film based on real facts in which no one is the killer and in which we all want to solve the case. Solutions at the last minute, such as the summer of 2019, when water was temporarily captured from the Alsa reservoir, but we also suffered the consequences of the rupture of the pipeline. Lack of political will of the government of Sanchez and of Churches, yes, but also of a regionalism handed over to the cause. The People's Party has done everything in its hand to ensure supply to the cantabrians - and, in fact, we will continue to do so; today we have reached a compromise with you - but I will show you with facts that much of the blame for what Cantabria lives is on the socialists. History begins with the National Hydrological Plan that the People's Party passed by law in 2001. Additional provision 6 allowed Cantabria to be granted a special authorization and on 29 August 2008 the authorization was granted: 25.23 cubic hectometers. This covered the needs of the autonomous community, Torrelavega and Santander as major population centres, and in 2010 that supply began to function. We have little such joy because, despite the fact that we thought the problem was solved, the Ministry of the Environment, which at the time ruled the socialist Cristina Narbona, knew that it did not do so? It did not approve the perceptive estimate of environmental impact. As a result, they cancelled the bitrasvase on 17 January 2011, and the consequences of that inoperation produced a perverse domino effect. The cancellation of the bitrasvase caused the special authorization to lapse and the General Plan of Urban Planning of Santander also to lapse. The cancellation of the bitrasvase could be corrected, corrective measures could be put in place for its approval, but Santander's General Urban Planning Plan was not because it had the level of regulation and could not be remedied. And there's nothing left because on February 24, 2015 there was this cancellation that guaranteed water to Cantabria. Do you know what happened? That the minister of the People's Party, Minister Tejerina, had to re-place the work dive once again, to collect technical reports from the different entities involved, to make the necessary public information, approvals of projects and additions and, thus far, our work was able to arrive, because the motion of censure of the socialists and now of the Socialcommunists took place. What have you been doing all this time? Nothing, and the People's Party does not say so, the first one that put the cry in heaven was the Socialist Vice President of the Government of Cantabria, Rosa Eva Díaz Tezanos, who after a year and a half saw that nothing was solved and highlighted the case. Basically, the People's Party wants the problem solved. You have a problem between partners that is being passed on to cantabrian society. We want a solution now and we end up telling him one thing that we think of all the cantabria: Cantabria is infinite, but the confidence and patience of the cantabria is not. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Castillo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to begin my intervention by answering Mrs Castillo because it seems, Your Honor, that you have not been in the last seven years ruling with Mariano Rajoy this country and that you have been in the cantabria for decades. In addition, they are allowed to speak here today about Minister Cristina Narbona. Cristina Narbona in 2004 and Teresa Ribera now, Your Honor, have done more for our country's environmental policies and ecological transformation to ensure safe progress, Your Honors. I know that you do not understand what it is to ensure safe progress, to talk about a better and more sustainable country for our future generations. [[Laughter]] And those same laughs today are the same ones they made when Minister Cristina Narbona in this rostrum spoke of climate change. Do you remember? Well, today no one denies climate change in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] On 14 October, the Vice-President and Minister for Ecological Transition made clear the position of the Government of Spain so that Cantabria and Santander could count on the water they need and demonstrated the firm will of this Government to reach a definitive solution as well. And today, ladies and gentlemen, with that I remain today, the parliamentary groups have shown that when we want it to be possible, reaching the compromise amendment that we have put forward an agreement that goes beyond today. It is a road map of the legislature in water policy. The Vice-President demonstrated this vocation of service and of seeking a solution to the problems. And today we, ladies and gentlemen, Members of this House, have put the interests of the whole above each other's interests. We have responded to a problem, by agreeing on a solution, by reaching with a high eye the objective that we should aim to achieve, which was not to do, ladies and gentlemen, a water war, but to achieve a solution to the water problem, showing that when responsibility and the general interest come together we can do great things together. The unreal would have been here, ladies and gentlemen, to show disagreement and confrontation, because no one representing Santander or Cantabria can be against water being guaranteed every day of the year. Water, ladies and gentlemen, is a necessary resource, but you also have to understand that it is a limited resource and that we must develop a water policy in our country that is just, redistributive, equitable and that ensures water supply in all places, reaching a great deal of hydrological planning agreed with the Autonomous Communities and the sectors concerned. And, today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, thanks to this government, to the government of Pedro Sánchez, we have guaranteed water in Cantabria, and that makes it clear today and without any doubt that no one, no Santanderino, no cantabre, has suffered a water supply cut and will suffer no more. On that basis, the Spanish Government, which was always part of the solution, was working, not part of the problems. The fourth Vice-President of the Government explained very well here all the alternatives to work in the short, medium and long term. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that together we are going to achieve a definitive solution and that we are going to be able to work, yes, with this Government, with this ministry, the Ministry of Ecological Transition, to find a solution for the future. I would now like to thank all the political forces, the People's Party, the Regionalist Party of Cantabria and the United States for their willingness and ability to agree to reach that agreement. The cantabrians and Saint-Anderines have the word of this Government, of their vice-president, of this deputy, also of this Saint-Anderine, and of the whole of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party that, whatever they say, they lie about what they lie about, the Government of Pedro Sánchez will not leave Cantabria or Santander without water. Never, ladies and gentlemen. That's our word. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Casares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u173	Thank you, President. Santander and the rest of the surrounding regions have historical problems with water supply, and Mr. Mazón informs us in the first lines of this motion. The Autonomous Community of Cantabria has recognized the right to catch water from the Ebro reservoir to fill the deficit in the supply system every summer. This has been done since 2008, first through a special authorization from the State for the derivation of water from the Ebro reservoir, which gives the right to receive 26 cubic metres per year, and then through a transitional one, which is to request the timely transfer of 5 cubic metres. During all this time neither Santander nor Cantabria have stopped receiving water from the Ebro reservoir, until the summer of 2019, when the government of Pedro Sánchez refused authorization and the autonomous community resorted to a temporary capture of the Alsa reservoir, giving up for the first time a right of all cantabres. To this day, the situation remains unresolved. For the region, it is essential to ensure this water supply. The president of the executive, Miguel Angel Revilla, defended this right in the debate on the state of the region, held in the Parliament of Cantabria, in June 2017. In that year, the State did authorize the capture of the Ebro reservoir. It was also authorized in 2018, when, in addition, Mariano Rajoy's government legalized the bitravase and left very advanced the processing of a new special authorization that represents the definitive solution. Since then, the authorization has been paralysed by the government of Pedro Sánchez. Once again, we are faced with the usual neglect of this Government; a government that comes late, bad and sometimes never, to solve the problems of the citizens. From Citizens, in the Autonomous Community of Cantabra, we have defended the appropriateness of this issue, which affects the necessary values of solidarity, union and equality between the Spaniards, and we have supported all the regional initiatives that have been discussed in the Parliament of the region. In fact, in the last debate in the region, in 2020, we presented the following resolution, urging the Government of Spain to authorize, first, the capture of 5 cubic hectometres of water from the Ebro swamp for the supply of the city of Santander for the summer and autumn season. And, as point number 2, modify the National Hydrological Plan to meet the new national reality and contemplate in it the 26 cubic hectometers of water coming from the Ebro swamp for the supply of Cantabria and the city of Santander. For all this, Mr. Mazón, I can tell you that from Citizens we will once again support this mechanism that has worked so well until we come across Mr. Sánchez. We will therefore support this motion in the absence of acceptance of that compromise amendment which we are still not aware of. We have already seen in many media, before Mr Mazón's inquiry and this motion, that the ministry is working on it, and that is what Minister Ribera once again said in Parliament, but we understand that no one has finished believing it, even you, Mr Mazón; and that is why he has recorded these two initiatives. I hope that we are not again faced with a new pressure strategy on the part of this government and that everything is subject to support from the PRC for budgets that are almost ready to reach Congress. As for Citizens, I can tell you that, with scrupulous respect for the opinion of experts on environmental matters, we will defend all those values which aim at union, equality and solidarity between Spaniards, because these values are those that form this great country that we share, and Cantabria, on this occasion, needs them. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u175	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. This motion, which in principle claims to be able to guarantee the supply of mouth water in the municipalities around Santander Bay, Santander, Santa Cruz de Bezana, Camargo and Astillero, brings back or does not hide the debate on the model of water management of the Spanish State. Therefore, regardless of the local area we are talking about, we are really talking about what water resources management would be like. We are clear that guaranteeing mouthwater is a social right, and that, in the hierarchy of uses established by the international framework, in particular by the Water Framework Directive, water security for people goes beyond the protection of biodiversity and the river ecosystem, but also from economic activities themselves. You propose, first of all, the transfer of 4.99 cubic hectometers for mouth water from the Ebro basin to the Western Cantabrian basin. In fact, it's a basin-to-basin transfer. They then propose another transfer of 25.23 cubic hectometers, also from the Ebro basin to the Western Cantabrian basin; another transfer. The most interesting thing - this is the difference from what we have seen with other transfers during these years and perhaps it is the management model where there is a real change - is that the return and previous storage clauses make it a two-way transfer and therefore preserve a principle of recovery of the water masses in the basin. This is fundamental. In fact, the reservoir comes to work as if it were a water bank that you can dispose of as long as you return it. This management model is a model based on sustainability criteria, unlike the traditional transfers we have seen, and therefore avoids the management model based on new precisely hydraulic infrastructures, such as reservoirs and pipelines, which has an impact on the territory, and also does not affect the availability of resources in the original basin itself. What challenges does this have, what challenges does this management model have? It obliges the strengthening of governance models and obliges a certain trend towards flexible and collaborative models of collective management, which is essential. On the other hand - and this is essential - it obliges above all transparency in management, because the management of this model becomes much more complex. I want to make a clarification. Many of you start from the idea that in the Ebro basin there is no deficit or water stress, which is a surplus basin. Take back the different proposals - at least, proposals - of new hydraulic infrastructures, such as reservoirs, canals, transfers and irrigation projects planned in the Ebro basin and you will understand the magnitude of what I am telling you. How is there not going to be a water deficit if today the Ebro Delta is retreating to sharp steps due to lack of flow and sediments of the river, an exceptional natural and economic space that lives exclusively on the Ebro River? It makes no sense for us, on the one hand, to fill our mouths with a desire to protect the Ebro Delta and, on the other, to steal from it what gives it life: water and sediments. This two-way transfer management model does not take resources away from the basin, but in some way it does what it does is preserve and manage. Finally - and finally - I think that you too forget another basic condition to take into account from now on: the diagnosis of the scenarios and problems arising from climate change in the field of water. In the opinion of the sub-committee on water and climate change, adopted in this House in 2018, several points were pointed out, and I will point out two important elements. Cedex, in fact, foresees a reduction in average flows from 2010 to the end of the century of the order of 24 %, which can reach between 30 and 40 % in the most sensitive areas. The increase in climatic and Mediterranean rainfall variability, with significant alteration of seasonal and spatial rainfall patterns, will lead to a strong increase in drought risks and also floods, with more frequent increases and maximum flow rates. I'm done. What's the point of all this? That any proposal should first bear in mind the principles of the water strategy for ecological transition, which consist of adapting and improving the resilience of resources and uses preferred to climate change, the identification, evaluation and selection of actions in hydrological plans and water management.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u176	Thank you very much, Mr Eritja, you have run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u177	One last sentence. When we refer to the challenges of climate change as opportunities we refer to this, to a profound change in the planning model and in water management. We are waiting to see the transactional and from there we will decide our final vote. Anyway, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u179	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate concerns a quantitatively small transfer of water and for the use of mouth water to the municipalities of Santander Bay, so our will from the outset was to reach an agreement that the motion should come out with maximum support, because meeting the demand for mouth water must always be the priority. But I would like to take advantage of this intervention - and make clear our support for the motion - to point out that there are a number of considerations to be made about the health of our rivers, since, although in this case the amount of water required is small, the context in our country is one of progressively reducing the resources available. The spokesman for the People's Party said that Cantabria is infinite, I tell you, from what little I have learned, that what is not infinite is water. That is why I would like to take a few minutes to remember the critical situation of the rivers and the need for a new water policy, a policy based on the good use of water, in the face of the current policy or the policy that has brought us here from large infrastructures that have finally made a serious impact on our rivers. Our rivers are reaching their ecological limits; while the pressure on water resources is increasing, climate change causes the rise in temperature to produce a substantial reduction in flow rates. Flow rates have already been reduced; in the case of the Ebro basin, from the beginning of the 1990s to the present, by 20 %, mainly because the increase in temperatures also leads to an increase in evaporation and evapotranspiration. As a result, the availability of water is becoming smaller and, in the meantime, consumption continues to rise. The shortage of flow rates makes it increasingly difficult to comply with environmental flow legislation. On the other hand, our country continues to have the subject of water quality pending. We have a number of European dossiers opened because of the lack of sewage treatment, and we are even obliged to pay millions of fines for the same issue. In particular, the European Court of Justice sentenced Spain in 2018 to a fine of EUR 12 million for failing to comply with the waste water treatment regulations, in particular by finding that several urban agglomerations with more than 15 000 inhabitants did not have waste water treatment or collector systems. In the territory of Alava, from which I come, of the forty-nine rivers, there are twenty-nine that do not meet the quality of good water status, that is, 60% of the rivers in the territory of Alava do not have the proper quality. Mr. Mazón began his interpellation by making a very interesting account of the social, environmental and also economic damage that caused the construction on his day of the Ebro reservoir, an impressive account that reminds us of the pain that the great hydraulic works caused in many Spanish valleys. Let us remember that Spain is the country of the world with the most embalmed rivers, we have more than 1200 large reservoirs and 6% of the surface of our country is flooded, so the margin for these infrastructures is exhausted. Intercuencal transfers are not a good idea, by the way, and they should not articulate water policies. In the case of the Ebro, the reservoirs of the basin also retain the sediment, and when the sediment does not reach the mouth, the Ebro Delta is in direct retreat and can disappear in a few years. The current situation of our rivers makes it necessary to manage water based on the sustainability of the resource, and for this to be done we need to analyse well each of the consumptions. In the Ebro basin, the most important water consumption is undoubtedly for irrigation; there are currently some 950,000 hectares of irrigation. The current Ebro Basin Plan envisages an increase of no less than 445,000 new hectares. It is estimated that the consumption of water for irrigation to meet this demand for irrigation is in the order of 6000 cubic hectometers; taking into account these 25 of which we are talking about today, the comparison is really not possible; that is, we are talking about a really small amount. There is no doubt, in any case, that this data should be of concern to us because the availability is becoming less and less available. It is true that in the case we are dealing with the increase in water consumption is mainly linked to an increase in the construction and the flow of people in the summer in Santander, and in general in Cantabria, whose population is multiplying. It should be recalled that adequate water management must be based not only on supply policy but also on proper demand management to ensure sustainable use of the resource. This issue must also be addressed as a matter of priority by the autonomous authorities. In short...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u180	Mr. López de Uralde, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u181	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u182	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Mazón, we agree with you that in Cantabria we have a historical problem of water shortages, and more specifically in the city of Santander. Indeed, as you have indicated, it is a permanent martyrdom to obtain authorization for the transfer of a cubic hectometer of water from the Ebro reservoir. As you well said in your inquiry, actually the water that falls from the sky is nobody's, but if it were someone's, it would be those from where it falls. And he added: In Cantabria people do not understand that we cannot drink water from the swamp, all that we need. You don't understand. Traditionally - you have said here today - there is talk of a historical debt to the Campoo area, but the VOX Parliamentary Group has in relation to that historical debt the concept that all the resources generated in Spain are of all Spanish, whether educational, sanitary or water. If, therefore, an area of Spain needs such resources, regardless of the historical debt it commented on, it will be necessary to study the needs and, where appropriate, address them properly. In this case, as has already been said, it is a question of water supply for mouth for urban areas. For us, as I told you, the supply of a city is a priority compared to any other use, and if Santander needs water in summer and it is common sense that he receives it from the Ebro swamp, he must receive it. Similarly, water must be distributed throughout the Ebro basin, and if it is also necessary in Zaragoza, it will be necessary to determine which interest is most in need of protection without the regionalist selfishness that is being fostered. That is why we understand as a mistake, and if we denounce it, the fact that this unit is being coerced in the management of water resources, which leads us to discussions between some autonomous communities and others at the time of the distributions, and that is why we are absolutely in favour of a national hydrological plan that really contemplates and regulates the harmonious and coordinated use of water resources at the national level. [[Applauds]] Mr. Mazón, let me tell you that we are surprised to see the change of attitude of your leader, the ex-Franquist, local or district delegate of vertical unions in Torrelavega, Mr. Revilla, on this subject. [[Applauds]] In 2017, with a government of the nation of another political sign, he said - I open quotes -: It is already the peak of attack on an autonomous community. I mean, leaving you without water, like the water up there is theirs, right? I think it's an ignominy. They're gonna take away our water. I'll get in the swamp if I have to! And he repeated again: The water is a signed right, 26 hectometres. They want us to take it from Alsa. They're stealing from us, they're stealing from us! Our water, our water! And he would say again, "I'll get into the swamp if I have to!" He never got into the swamp. Fraga did in his day with the famous bomb, but Mr. Revilla didn't get to do it. But now the year 2020 is coming, with a socialist government and a situation similar to that in 2017, and his latest statements in this regard have been: I show my peace of mind with regard to this water transfer for the autonomous community, mainly aimed at supplying Santander, because the duties have been done. Different, right? The belligerent tone has changed. Now it no longer touches, now we are in time to idolize Pedro Sánchez. That is why its political formation is already known as the regional socialist party of Cantabria. [[Applauds]] The city of Santander is being treated unfairly in the water supply. Now we have a chance not to get any more jumps in the future. That is why we say to the government of Pedro Sánchez that we cannot deny water, that we cannot play with what is of all Spaniards and that we at once approve a genuine national hydrological plan. Until that happens, we are going to join Mr Mazón's proposal and we are going to vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u184	Thank you, Mr. Del Valle. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón, I understand that the motion will be voted on in the terms of the compromise that you yourself have announced. [[Consent]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u185	I ask you to hold your seats as quickly as possible because, before we proceed to the vote, we will read the institutional statement on the occasion of ADHD Day in Spain. Madam Secretary Monday, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u186	On the occasion of the commemoration on 27 October of the National Day of ADHD, included in the month of European awareness by ADHD, the Congress of Deputies expresses its commitment to this day which shows the need to continue working for an early diagnosis and a multidisciplinary intervention, giving an impetus to research, training and social normalization, so necessary to eliminate the social stigma that, unfortunately, continues to be detected today in the family, school, social and work environment closest to the people affected by this disorder. It is necessary to work on raising awareness of the need for early and continuous action to avoid future risks for people with ADHD. The Congress of Deputies also expresses its appreciation for all the people affected and their families, who unfortunately still face misunderstanding, disbelief and discrimination, motivated by a lack of knowledge of how they affect their symptoms every day. ADHD is a disorder of neurobiological origin and with a genetic pattern that, although invisible to the eyes of many people, its different faces make day to day a challenge difficult to overcome without the support and empathy of the social environment. The Congress of Deputies calls on the empathy of people, civil society and public authorities to join this day, to understand the complexity of what lives and suffers more than 5% of the child-child population and 2% of adults in Spain and to work over the next year to improve the quality of life of these people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u187	Thank you very much, Second Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, we vote first of all to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Republican Parliamentary Group amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, in order to decriminalise the insults to the Crown and the outrages to Spain. [[Organic]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 99 plus 251 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 11 plus 62 telematics votes, 73; against, 86 plus 187 telematics votes, 273; abstentions, 2 plus 2 telematics votes, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u189	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, A BODY FOR THE DEROGATION OF ARTICLE 315(3) OF THE CRIMINAL CODE. [[File number 122/000083]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u190	We shall proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which repeals Article 315(3) of the Criminal Code. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 99 plus 251 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 71 plus 124 telematics votes, 195; against, 28 plus 125 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-27-CD201027.u191	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night. It was ten o'clock at night.
