ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u1	Good evening. I would like to welcome everyone who is here in the Chamber and anyone who is watching at home. Welcome to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, Mr Koolmees, and to all Members of Parliament who are going to participate in this 30-member debate on anti-Islam sentiments in society. Eleven speakers have spoken on the side of the Chamber. It is a 30-member debate, which means that speaking time per speaker has been fixed for three minutes. I would suggest that you do two interruptions in two in the first term of the Chamber. I call Mr Azarkan. He is speaking on behalf of the DENK Group. He was the applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u2	On 15 January 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, this debate was requested on 15 January 2019, two and a half years ago. And that's what the room gives us three minutes for. Mr. Chairman. DENK is deeply concerned about the growing anti-Islamic feelings in society. A whole generation of Dutch people with a Muslim background know nothing but that their Muslim-being is attacked and challenged. I have often wondered why there are no more politicians, opinion leaders, but also journalists to address this problem. Actually, the answer is painful. If you see how the public debate has been hardened for a long time and how politicians under the leadership of the PVV have normalized xenophobia and Islam hatred, who insists on pointing out the anti-Islam sentiments and taking it up for the Muslims? Because these Muslims are the stepchilds of society. After each incident, they are reminded that they are different, that they will never fully fit in and that they are held responsible for the violence of others, sometimes in very different parts of the world. There are parties who are willing to violate the rule of law when it comes to Muslims. Election programmes of the VVD, the PVV and the SGP, but also of Forum and JA21 are in direct violation of the rule of law and propose to give Islamic Dutch less rights. It seems to have become normal for Muslims to be dismissed as second-class citizens. Mr. Chairman. It shouldn't be possible. That's not normal. Some of these parties even try to sell Islam as an ideology. That is a dirty trick to circumvent the freedom of religion of Muslims, to circumvent protection through the Constitution. More and more we see in the media that Islam is increasingly being portrayed as a radical idea and rarely more as a religion, which it is essentially. Mr. Chairman. So what are the consequences for our society? What we see is dramatic. According to the latest SCP-research, 55% of Islamic Dutch people experience discrimination on a regular basis. 71% of Muslims face discrimination while applying and 90% of online discrimination on religious grounds focuses on Islam. And it goes on, Mr. Chairman. Apparently, the heated hate feelings are so great that there are even people attacking mosques and Muslims. When we see the long list of violence against and threats to mosques, I sincerely wonder why there is no more consternation in society. It almost hits the mosque every week: destruction, threatening letters and threats to a terrorist attack in Enschede and arson at the mosque in Gouda less than two months ago. Can you imagine what that would mean if it were a synagogue or a church? Then what would be the reaction here in the Chamber? Mr President, a few brief proposals. Let us register Muslim discrimination separately, which has not been registered separately since 2019. Let us recognise Muslim hatred as a specific form of discrimination and combat it as an urgent task for the national coordinator to appoint discrimination. I therefore expect, in response to the cabinet, the Minister, more commitment to the threat and hate speech from far-right parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u4	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Then we will clean up the chair and I will invite Mrs Belhaj, who will speak on behalf of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u5	Mr. Chairman. I quote: "I can't understand, can't bear to be judged not by what he is, but by the group he happens to belong to." Primo Levi wrote that to his German translator in the 1960s. The reason for this debate were the hundreds of stickers found in Gouda in January 2019 with "Muslim-free zone," "Islam not welcome here" and "bans for Muslims." What is an Islamic child to think when he or she finds such apert racist slogans on the football field, in the playground or at a traffic light? And unfortunately it didn't stick with words in Gouda. During the past Easter weekend, the Muslim community was shocked by a fire bomb that set the mosque on fire. Let that get through to you: an incendiary bomb. I visited the mosque in Gouda and also spoke with representatives of the Muslim community. I heard about the impact of events, but I also heard that they have experienced a lot of support from other religious beliefs. Reports of the arsonist in the media did do some good in the Muslim community. In the case of incidents of violence committed by a Muslim, there is often talk of possible terrorist action. During the arson at a Gouda mosque, a confused man was mentioned very quickly. That evokes a feeling of injustice among people, that if you do not yet know what is going on because it has not yet been investigated, there is talk of a confused man, but not of someone who may have done so because of Muslim hatred. Anti-Islam sentiments are undoubtedly linked to the rise of right-wing extremistism. The AIVD concluded last year that the anti-Islam position is the main new ideological driving force under right-wing extremistism. This year, the service says that there is reason to be concerned that right-wing extremists in the Netherlands are radicalising and attacking. Mr. Chairman. What we can do against negative imagery and racism is known. The Minister himself mentioned it in his letter: real meetings, dialogue and positive contact. Work also offers opportunities to get to know the other person. The Minister held talks in society on how to tackle Muslim discrimination. My question to him is what the conclusions of these talks are and what he is going to do. Mr. Chairman. The government has a duty to protect minorities in this country and the parliament has a duty to listen to society. As requested earlier, there will be a debate. There will be a round table meeting, also in Gouda, with the Muslim community to get their experiences with in a broad sense. I hope that the Chamber can also set a good example for real meetings. I agree with what Mr Azarkan said about political parties that have created and triggered a discourse which has led more and more people to believe in the broadest sense that it may be right to vent Muslim hatred. We think that is an extremely bad thing. Fortunately, D66, my party, has been fighting for some years now.Pechtold has started to fight against parties who think it's normal to talk about Muslims as if they were a bunch of animals. That was my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u6	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. First the chair is cleaned again, and then Mr De Graaf, who speaks on behalf of the PVV group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u7	It's very well cleaned, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u8	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u9	I'd almost get intoxicated. Mr. Chairman. A debate on anti-Islam sentiments suggests that it is forbidden to be against ideology like Islam. And of course that is not prohibited in our country, and in the rest of the free West, as it is not forbidden to be against fascism, for example, against national socialism, or against international socialism, also called communism. These are, of course, the totalitarian brothers of Islam, who then have to do without a god. The fact that we are having this debate has everything to do with anti-Western sentiments in our society, and it does not want to accept our leading culture, which is Jewish-Christian in nature. As far as I'm concerned, anyone who accepts that leading culture is welcome to stay. There have often been debates in this Chamber about reports and reports, or wanted testimonies that are enlarged. I myself took part in these debates. In most cases, the persons concerned felt discriminated against in such a way that the declaration was not necessary, or even "forgotten." That's a missed opportunity to check the reports against our law. And our law is clear. The result is that we are now occupying the plenary room for an entire evening, which is not really necessary. What does the chairman think it's all gonna cost? There were several stickers, but Mrs Belhaj said they could be divided into three types. One species said: Islamists not welcome. The other one said Muslim-free zone. And there was another kind that said something like, "Islam not welcome." Stickers that say "Islam not welcome" or "Islamists not welcome": well, I wouldn't stick them up myself or anything. In any case, I find sticker actions quite unnecessary. But the inscription "Muslim-free zone" is, of course, reminiscent of earlier periods in history which of course did not go so well for certain groups of the population. That wasn't about Muslims then, but it was about dark people or Jews, for example. So we find such a sticker distasteful. We therefore find the fuss partly artificial, but certainly selective. If the Dam in Amsterdam is enough with figures calling "Khaybar, Khaybar," and "intifada," then it seems to be about support for lid bellhamels. But these bellhamels are so lids that they, very Islamic, want to exterminate Jews, as their supposedly "good example" Muhammad did in 629 in Khaybar, but two years earlier in Medina. In 627 the genocide was in peacetime, and in 629 a war against unarmed Jewish peasants. What if that's a good example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u10	I'm going to interrupt you, Mr. De Graaf, because Mr. Azarkan has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u11	Can I just say one more sentence, Mr. Chairman? After that, I can respond better to Mr Azarkan, because this fits better with this block. We still see those anti-Jewish sentiments, although the "Khaybar" slogans are no longer carried out as massively as in 627 and 629. I would like to add that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u12	Period. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u13	Mr De Graaf cannot wait to spew even more hatred and even more disgust. He always does that with verve. It is about the day job, the life of the PVV, especially of Mr Wilders, to turn Muslims away as hostile, as people who take over. I'll give you some quotes. "Moroccans come here to mess things up." "They have not come to integrate, but to take over and subdue us." "We have a huge problem with Muslims." "Austons are growing less quickly." And so it is pointed out the danger of immigrants. We have seen that PVV ideology is fascist. I haven't established that, but a researcher at the University of Tilburg has very well established that. It is the day job of Mr De Graaf and the PVV to turn Muslims away as second-class, as enemies. The PVV made sure we're standing here today. I really don't think it's a bad idea for him to turn around on this evening, too, when it comes to anti-islam sentiments. How does Mr De Graaf look at his own responsibility, including in the social debate, for the hatred he sows against Muslims?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u14	Those are two frames that are wrong, three lies, two taqqiya and a number of sources that are not mentioned in the quotes that Mr Azarkan says. Well, at least I'd want the names on those sources. Then I can be honest with you. Now I have to jump into the deep end to think, "Who said that?" It could be a PVV guy. Fine, that's fine, but then I'd like to know and when it's finished. That's what makes the debate so honest. I'm not gonna respond to frames that don't add up, to lies or to taqqiya. I don't feel like it. That is not why we are holding the debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u15	It's always very special. If you point out to a xenophobic, fascist, racist party that it's pouring dirt on society, on Muslims, as the order of lawyers has already established, that it wants to give those Muslims less voting rights and that it doesn't even want them to come into the Chamber. Mr De Graaf then says: where exactly is that? Mr De Graaf knows very well where it is. It is Mr Wilders' day job, his life's purpose, to turn Muslims away as enemies, because that leads to votes. Mr De Graaf should stop hiding that and honestly say that he is indeed turning Muslims away as inferior. He just needs to come out and not play hide-and-seek behind the question when that was said. You know that! Those are quotes from your own leader. You know that. It's also in your election program. Just be honest about that. You see Muslims as second-class. You don't want them here. You want them gone. Your party leader wants mosques closed down, wants to forcefully pick up Korans. Don't play hide-and-seek. Just be honest!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u16	I count five more lies about violence and such. It really doesn't make any sense. "Second-rate citizens" doesn't make any sense. What else did I hear? "Fascism" doesn't make any sense. We fight fascism with a god above it. A representative of that is right here in front of me! That is what we are fighting against. We are for a free Netherlands, in which everyone is free to decide about his own life and can develop himself. That is why we are fighting against totalitarian ideologies. Then Mr. Azarkan should not turn around here. That is, of course, a false reflection of reality. I'm not going along with that. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u17	Mr. Azarkan, would you please...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u18	I thought I had two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u19	That's right. You want to use it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u20	It's not worth wasting them on the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u21	I call Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u22	In any case, I should like to say that I believe that people's representatives should not accuse each other of taqqiya here, because then any kind of debate in this house will no longer be possible in advance. Mr Azarkan, too, you can disagree with him. You are simply an elected representative of the people in this house. I would therefore ask Mr De Graaf not to do so. But I have another question. My question concerns his speech and that sticker 'Muslim-free zone'. He seemed to say that he thought that was unacceptable, but then he went on to say that he thought it was selective indignation. Do you find such a sticker on which "Muslim-free zone" is not tasteful or do you find it unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u23	No, I find that unacceptable. I've been clear about that. Before that, I said that there was a selective outrage when we had the Dam full of idiots shouting "Khaybar Khaybar, Mohammed ya yahud." That means: pay attention, non-Muslims, and especially Jews, Muhammad's army returns as in Khaybar in 629. This means that it is a call for violence against all Jews who are present in the free West, because that call means that the Jews must be massacred. There is even nothing to be found in Jewish writings of this murder, because it was carried out so thoroughly that there was no one left to write it down. We have had to learn about this by other means, through Muslim historiography, Islamic historiography. Then there is the point of selective indignation: why on a sticker, but not in a direct call for violence? I have indeed said that I find that sticker distasteful, because it refers to periods in history in which whole groups, whether they were blacks in America or the Jews in World War II, were put away on the basis of their race and were not allowed to participate in society or even to be eradicated. Of course, that's what it refers to. In these cases, not Muslims were the victims, but Jews or blacks. That is what I have to say and have said. I hope that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u24	I think that sticker goes beyond just distasteful, but we are dealing here with appalling forms of intolerance and discrimination. And when we talk about selective indignation, we often see that part of the Chamber is talking about other groups in debates about groups facing violence, threats of violence, intimidation or discrimination. We have had a lot of debates in the past and I am now back as an integration spokesperson, so Mr Graaf knows that the CDA has always taken firm positions when it comes to glorifying terrorist violence or anti-democratic parties. But this debate is about Muslim hatred, about those stickers and about mosques where intimidating letters and threats have come and been set on fire. That is what this debate is about. Does Mr De Graaf, despite his deception of Islam as an ideology, also think that it is unacceptable if that happens and that it needs to be addressed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u25	I didn't use a misdemeanor here. I didn't catch myself doing that. But back to Mr Heerma's very first question about taqqiya. The PVV did not bring that concept to the Netherlands, but it was the first to explain it in the Chamber. That must also be corrected. In addition, I have expressed my horror and indignation here many times in the Chamber and have been clear about the use of violence, arson, destruction and terrorist attacks. We've always been clear about that. That's what Dutch law is for. That needs to be addressed. We, too, always say that you don't touch other people's things, no matter what their stuff is. Except, of course, as a criminal... that's another story. But from a mosque, a church or a synagogue, you don't touch your cooks. We've always been clear about that. And for that sticker, I use the word "wrong taste," but I've done quite a lot of distaste with very serious examples from history, so I think it's clear enough what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u26	Mr Heerma in the third instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u27	It is good that Mr De Graaf here says that these forms of discrimination and threats cannot and that he wants to be clear about them. Just at that point of taqqiya. We have also had a number of debates on this subject. Former colleagues were told that they were part of the Muslim Brotherhood, while I think one of the MPs concerned had just before been called "traitor of Islam." I am talking about former colleague Marcouch. The moment you accuse an elected representative of taqqiya, you actually say that it lies in advance because it is subject to innuendo. As a result, no debate on the content is possible. I shall therefore repeat it again: I would ask Mr De Graaf not to do so. If he disagrees very much with Mr Azarkan......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Otherwise, it is almost impossible to debate peacefully, because the opponent is a liar in advance. That's not what we should do in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u28	Then I do not want to have to respond to an interruption in which there are two unfair frames and five things that are wrong and some facts that do not matter. To return to Mr Marcouch, I was the one who protected Mr Marcouch in that debate from Mr Öztürk, who accused Mr Marcouch of takfir. Takfir means that you accuse a Muslim of being an unbeliever, which puts him at risk on the streets when he encounters the wrong group of people from Islam. I was the one who clearly protected Mr Marcouch from Mr Öztürk, who made this accusation in the direction of Marcouch. So where's the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u29	Let's go back to this debate. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u30	I believe that Mr Öztürk, as well as Mr De Graaf, had a role in that debate and that almost the rest of the committee protected Mr Marcouch from both allegations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u31	I was the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u32	However, I insist that we should debate together in this debate on the basis of the content. Mr De Graaf does not respond to that. I do not think it is appropriate in this house to make innuendo, to insinuate that someone is not credible in advance or that someone is lying because of taqqiya. If I think that Mr De Graaf is raising falsehoods in an interruption, then I am going to explain why the question is not correct and why there are things in it that are the truth. But that is something other than putting someone here and accusing them of taqqiya and thus making any kind of debate impossible in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u33	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u34	There is one more part that often comes back in debates and which at least makes a number of Jewish friends I have shit sick of, to put it bluntly. That is that the PVV, through Mr De Graaf, always calls the Jewish Dutch to beat Islam and Muslims. They say stop it. Can Mr De Graaf explain to me what he means when he speaks of a "Jewish-Christian tradition"? How does that relate to the 1930s and the destruction of 6 million Jewish Dutch people? Was there some kind of time-out or something? How does he explain that? How did that happen? Can he explain that a little bit more, that Jewish-Christian tradition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u35	So I have to do something with the Holocaust in the light, in the frame of the Jewish-Christian tradition? I'm really trying to get the question straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u36	Let me explain the question. Mr De Graaf says that we have a Jewish-Christian tradition in the Netherlands. That suggests that everything else doesn't matter. Muslims are then seen as some kind of enemies who want to enter. That's what he says. "We have a Jewish-Christian tradition here." Only those Jewish Dutch don't always experience it that way. They say, "Oh, why does the PVV abuse that unity of Jewish Christian every time, while the Jews were persecuted here in the 1930s?" So they say: do not abuse us to beat the Muslims. My question to Mr De Graaf is: what does he mean when he speaks of the "Jewish-Christian tradition" and how did he develop in the suit in the Netherlands over the last hundred years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u37	Ah, now I understand him a little bit. It was not clear at first, at least for me. The question is again filled with fantasies of violence and the like, namely: "beat this" and "beat that." I'm not out here hitting people or hitting groups. So I leave that part of the picture with Mr. Azarkan. Maybe it's a reflection of his own mind on me, but I'll let that pass by me. The Holocaust took place, of course. During that time a lot of Jewish people were taken from the Netherlands and eventually killed. Not only that story, but also that reality we all know. But I'll highlight some points about the Jewish-Christian tradition. Within that tradition, for example, women are equal to men, homosexuality is accepted, and if I take the Christian part, then the transition from the Old to the New Testament is as follows. In the Old Testament we see many stories that testify of barbarism, while in the New Testament, in the person of Jesus Christ, it is about forgiveness and can start over. Jesus Christ says: "Oh, boy, if you say sorry to each other and sincerely want to start over, there is a new beginning possible with all of us." That has also opened the door to a more scientific way of thinking. It's opened the door to the lights, to be able to think differently. And it even opened the door to religious criticism. That's so valuable. In Jewish tradition, you are almost obliged to argue with God. That is, of course, completely absent in the Islamic tradition. There you must listen to what is in the golden heavenly book, also called the Qur'an, which Gabriel would have sent to Muhammad in parts. In linear doctrine of salvation, as in Christianity, it is not primarily about barbarism and later about forgiveness, development, beauty and rights for all. This doctrine of salvation is quite the other way around. It starts in Medina with an almost Christian story. Then Muhammad goes to Mecca, in which he comes to his fantasies of violence and outbursts. He slaughtered Jews, chased Christians, you name it all. So it's a totally reverse doctrine of salvation. We say 'be careful what happened in Medina'. We also know that Medina is leading within Islam, which makes it an ideology. I come back to the first sentence of my contribution, namely: can you criticize the fact that these ideas are getting too much ground in the Netherlands? My answer to that is: yes, I can criticize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u38	Fluent bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u39	Everything is 100% true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u40	We started somewhere with a simple question: how has this religious, Jewish-Christian tradition developed in the Netherlands over the last hundred years? And Mr De Graaf always ends with the same fantasy, namely: Medina, Mecca, 1650. That ideology and the fantasies of Mr De Graaf go wild because he has no answer. I think my Jewish friends are just right. I'm gonna say it again: it's just empty, it's nothing. The Jewish-Christian tradition is dragged with its hairs to rule out Muslims, to say: you are the enemy. I have not heard at all, in any way, how it has developed in the Netherlands. In the 1930s, when a terrible Holocaust took place here, you did not need Muslims, I say to Mr De Graaf. That just happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u41	Ha, look!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u42	This has happened in Europe. Then you bring that up and you say: that is a Jewish-Christian tradition. Then just answer my question!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u43	Okay. Here it comes, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u44	That means very simple...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u45	Here it comes!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u46	And when it comes to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u47	Mr Azarkan has a moment to speak and will finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u48	Then ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u49	Finally. When it comes to women's rights, they know what to do at the PVV. There's a fractional employee deployed here by a party. He's just being prostituted. That party doesn't say anything about that. They'll accept that. Then you just look and say, yes, it's about women's rights. Then you should act in your own party!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u50	We didn't need Muslims to make the Holocaust happen. I would remind Mr Azarkan of Haj Amin al-Husseini, the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem, who after the takeover of power by Hitler... That is why I like that Mr Azarkan does not think the PVV is worthy of questions but will come back, because then I can explain this very well. Haj Amin al-Husseini, the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem, congratulated Hitler on taking over power and said that many countries in Europe would follow this example, so that the Jews could be hunted and exterminated everywhere. Then Hitler indeed started sending Jews back to the area that was then called Palestine, the present Israel. He came to Berlin in 1942 to shake Hitler's hand and say, "Joh, don't do it, what I'm about to lose power in that area. Soon the Jews will take over here. It's much better to wipe them out. And take a good look at what the Turks have done with the Armenians, the Arameans and the Greeks. Take a good look at that, Adolf! If you get that done, I'm here to help you with the Handschar division, for example from Bosnia." For example, Hitler has been richly rewarded from the Islamic world by the greatest boss of then in the Islamic world, Haj Amin al-Husseini, in the extermination of the Jews. So we didn't need Muslims to do that; no, the ideas of the Muslims quake!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u51	So, shall we go back to the 21st century?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u52	I am surprised at the debate in which I have ended up, and I do not fully recognize myself in the upliftment of Christian culture and also in the line of history that Mr De Graaf sketches, but I do have a question. You say, as the PVV election programme says, 'We must protect people from Islamic ideology, because that is a great danger'. Are there any other ideologies against which, according to the PVV, we should protect our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u53	Yes, I mentioned them: fascism, Marxism, Leninism, Communism, International Socialism, National Socialism; they don't differ very much from each other, you know. Which one do we have? Nowadays we also have it... Well, there are so many forms of Marxism that are now wandering our way from America, for example the whole wok. I would say: you should discuss it a lot, in freedom, but, for example, the whole cancel culture, which is emerging from that angle right now, I find dangerous. 'Cause if you're gonna cancel, you can't talk anymore. If you're going to put people out of the debate that way, you can't talk about it anymore. Then there is no further development. The timeline I mentioned is true, but it takes a little study.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u54	I find those remarks about the cancelling so interesting. The analysis you make of society is your approach, but I miss a very important one, namely the rise of the far right. They knew that in Belgium, last night, extreme right-wing groups. We have a scientist who said that those extreme right-wing groups aren't actually in the picture at all. They are just doing cancel culture, for example with Vizier Op Links to try to silence scientists, especially women, through threats. If Mr De Graaf says 'we want to protect society from ideologies that suppress it', should he have called the development of the far right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u55	Yeah, I didn't mention extreme lefts in this case either. You could blame me for that, too. I say this through the chairman to Mrs Leijten. Mrs Leijten could have blamed me for that, too. Then I haven't been complete. We know that extreme left is very well organized. That has, of course, been a major problem for decades. We are indeed seeing more and more... I have of course read those NCTV reports as well. I also took Mrs. Sterckenburg's booklet for a moment. He has also been a bit involved in that discussion, with the words "I have to say" a not very high-quality scripture. But of course, yes, there are sentiments even in the far right. There are also groups active, i.e. mainly individuals, but perhaps also small groups which, of course, do not make a positive contribution to the free exchange of opinions. Those aren't my friends.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u56	This is the first time I have discussed this subject with Mr De Graaf and I would like to conclude that I consider him highly selective. For he trivializes the degree of development of the far right, especially at this corona time: to silence, to make people very small and intimidate, precisely those Mr De Graaf and the PVV say to include: gays, women, people who want to move freely in society, and even the willingness to take up arms and start civil war. I think that's really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u57	I didn't. No, that's bullshit. This is a SP tactic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u58	Mrs Leijten has the floor, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u59	Yes, but this is what the SP always does, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u60	No, no. You can react like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u61	I want to make a point of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u62	Mr. De Graaf, you're welcome to respond. Mrs Leijten has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u63	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u64	Mr De Graaf thinks he can lecture here and that there is a one-sided reality, but I will tell him this: if he keeps looking away from the far right, he feeds far right. We need to draw a line there, too. That would be my appeal to the PVV, but I was actually working on my conclusion: there is a total blind spot there at the PVV, because she focuses entirely on only one part of a religion that I think should be able to move freely in the Netherlands. I'm very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u65	Then I say in turn: Mrs Leijten still has a lot to learn on this subject. This is her first debate here for a reason. I'm not teaching; I'm just telling you what I know. About a blind spot: that's the nice thing the SP always does, namely walking with its own frame to the interrupting microphone, letting go of that frame and no matter what the reaction is, we then "feed far right." The SP is part of the extreme left. She is part of that, while we have always kept our distance from everything that is far right in the Netherlands. What has happened is that, if I may respond to the question, Mrs Leijten is that all the criticism that was there during the corona period is under the far right, which seems to make the movement grow. But I've been in touch with people from that group who e-mail me. And what turns out to be a lot? That there are left-wing sympathies on the Malieveld and no right-wing sympathies. Then I think:...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u66	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u67	That group may seem to be growing, but I wonder if it is. But when it comes to fantasies of violence, threats and so on, I have just made myself clear to Mr Heerma. Anyone who threatens with violence and the like will find the PVV on its way. We don't feed on wrong sentiments in the extreme right, they do that by themselves. I want to stay very far away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u68	Period. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u69	I went to Mr De Graaf with an open question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u70	And a closed frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u71	No, not at all. Because I wanted to know if he was also concerned about other ideological oppression that is now on the rise. I never said anyone who's worried about corona is far right. I did say that far right can grow under corona, because it's less in sight. And I do find it worrying that if you look completely away from that, you're actually making up for that as well. That was my thesis or my final conclusion, after two very open questions to Mr De Graaf, which he answered with frames.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u72	Mr. De Graaf, any final reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u73	I have also mentioned five other ideologies: fascism, national socialism, international socialism. I'm talking about Islam. I'm talking about communism, Marxism-Leninism. And Mrs Leijten is not responding to that. I mentioned it, and I've been worried about it. That's what I'm always worried about. That's what we're fighting. If I respond in the same way as Mrs Leijten's little leap in my direction, then I say that Mrs Leijten is not worried about all these ideologies, about their development and the threat to our rule of law. And then I am very concerned about the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u74	I like a good debate. I also like the sharpest part of the cut. I thought, "Well, that's gonna be something," when I looked at the list of all the people who were gonna be here tonight. I thought that would be discussed at the sharpest of the cuts. I'm really trying to understand what's going on here and what you're actually doing. My question is how you got to this debate tonight. What was your idea as a result of what was going on? 'Cause there's something going on. What was going on in your head? What are you doing here anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u75	I'm not here tonight on a free consultation. I'm standing here in the Lower House just saying what I'm supposed to say. I stand here proclaiming the reality of Islam. I stand here proclaiming the reality of all kinds of other ideologies which are not good either and which threaten freedom. I am standing here giving a vision of this reality and I am not standing here for a free consultation with a psychologist that I certainly don't need.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u76	It's always good to say what you are there for, because then you can learn to understand each other, at least, that's always my way. Then I'd just like to know if you have an opinion on Muslim hatred and Islamophobia.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u77	Yeah, I have an opinion on that. Let me start with Islamophobia. Islamophobia is a concept coined by the organization of Islamic cooperatives that aims to equate criticism of Islam with racist criticism, or criticism of races. In other words, the purpose of the coins of the term "islamophobia" is to get it into the corner of racism and to equate it with anti-Semitism, which is a form of racism. We don't have to go in that frame. Criticism of ideology has never anything to do with racism. That is my opinion on the term "islamophobia," which is either a fake term or a fake frame, in which we should not stink in the western world. Above all, we should not use them, or explain what I have just explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u78	Mrs. Belhaj, in the third instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u79	The second part was Muslim hatred.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u80	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u81	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't know, when I get to my Muslim friends, who I buy olives from and other good things. They also have my number, on which I can give the order. Or they call me and ask, "Machiel, can I bring you something when I'm on the market?" They've never accused me of Muslim hatred. I have to say, I don't hate Muslims or anything. I don't know what to do with it either, Muslim hatred. I also think, if you're talking about "Muslim hate," it's about... I'm trying to think freely here, Mr President, because I'm actually being challenged to do so. That's what I like about the debate. So on the basis of the group to which that person belongs, I would hate that person, because it is a Muslim. Well, I don't know any Muslim hatred myself. And it doesn't recognize the individual development possibilities that I like to assign to everyone in this country, and which I would like to see explored by everyone. So I'd say, develop yourself, let a lot of things slip away from you and get a thick skin, then maybe we'll all have a little less trouble. But people who are guilty of some kind of hate... But people get to hate, don't they? It's okay. People get to hate. But, yeah, I don't like that energy myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u82	Mrs. Belhaj, in the third instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u83	At the first answer I thought: this is interesting. Because I asked you what you thought, and you actually described at meta level how you see the phenomenon of Islamophobia at all. And you started by saying that you're convinced that that's coming from somewhere, and that people are more likely to be racist...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u84	It's back, yeah. The conference's just back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u85	Yeah, but we do it a little like this: I ask you a question, and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u86	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u87	No, you're asking "Mr. De Graaf."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u88	Yeah, but you're gonna have to deal with him, not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u89	No, it's convenient, Mrs. Belhaj, if you speak through the chairman. That just makes it a little more parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u90	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u91	Yeah, I'd think I'd figure that out after five years. Mr President, through you to Mr De Graaf: I found the first answer interesting, because it was an open question and you actually describe what you think about it at meta level, so what is the reason that the frame exists? But I was just looking forward to your opinion on the substance. And the second thing you answered is, what do I actually think of hate and Islamophobia? That sounded a little bit or Islam hate...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u92	Muslim hatred.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u93	Muslim hatred. Yeah, well, he did it again. But that sounds like you're denying it exists. And it is not that we have a debate here with each other and then randomly throw down all kinds of terminology here. It has been investigated: it is the AIVD who acknowledges that, especially among right-wing extremists, Muslim hatred or anti-Islam sentiments, I need to be present. So, Mr President, finally, my question: do you really not have an opinion on Islamophobia or people who hate Muslims or inciting other people to do something about them or stick stickers? That's one. And two: whether you actually deny that it exists. 'Cause you're saying that's really nothing, because hate is allowed. That's right, but phobia goes much further, of course. That takes place in a kind of discourse. That has an impact, which threatens people. So those were actually my questions: do you have an opinion on the substance, and do you or do you not deny its existence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u94	Well, "islamophobia" as a term is therefore coined, so that exists. And content: Islamophobia, if you dissect that, then you get "islam" and "phobia," which means "fear," often an unfounded fear. But I think if people are afraid of Islam, so can they. We are also free to be afraid of something, including an ideology. And then I have to conclude that that fear is often well founded. For there are three books, the Koran, the Sira and the Hadith. Those are the three sacred books, which together, say, form a kind of Bible for Islam. And if you're going to read there and look closely at what the timeline is, you'll see that it calls very often for all Jews to be exterminated, for Christians to be hunted and exterminated, for gays to be prevented or even killed. And then I think: yes... And that is Muhammad's example. The Qur'an contains 91 orders to follow Muhammad, 86 of them from his violent period. And that is the period that goes beyond its peaceful period, which goes beyond that. Then I think: yes, then some fear of Islam and Muhammad's example may well be justified. So that is my answer to that in substance. And yes, indeed, hate is allowed. I myself am very little concerned with that. Sometimes I hate someone or something, when someone doesn't drive fast enough on the highway when I'm in a bit of a hurry. That is up to me; I should have left sooner. But hate is still allowed. I'd say I wouldn't care too much about it, hate it. But when I read the books of Islam and I've read them all, I come across so much hatred towards West, that's such a big bang of negative energy that doesn't do democracy and the rule of law any good... Yes, we can have the debate on that. And then I think I'm going to give a very substantive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u95	I was looking forward to this debate and to your views, but I still find it a little disappointing, because you seem to be slightly different from your election programme, from previous opinions and from motions that you yourself have tabled. So I'm curious to see how you're really in it. First of all, you say that there is nothing wrong with criticizing what someone wants to believe. It's possible. I couldn't agree more. But this goes on, of course. This is about attempted arson and window-breaking. You just indicated that you don't approve of any form of violence. Let me start with a simple question. Early last month there was an attempted arson at a mosque in Gouda, I think. You're rejecting that? Do you reject any attempt by any person in the Netherlands to do so? Now can you tell me that's unacceptable, that you don't touch a mosque?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u96	I'm not gonna say anything, so again, try to speak through me. But Mr. De Graaf is going to answer your question, Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u97	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Look, of course I can't look into people's heads, so if someone gets it in their head, I can't say anything about it, because I don't know what's going on in people's minds. I have given this answer to Mr Heerma before, and then I also said that I have said this many times in the Chamber, but we have always said: every attempt at violence, any use of violence or any attack, you will find the PVV on your path; you will stay away from other people's things and you will not commit violence. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u98	Mr. Cedar in second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u99	That's good to hear. Maybe I didn't hear that so clearly. No attempts at violence, no mosques, according to the PVV. I think that is an important signal: that all Dutch, Muslim or non-Muslim, Christian or Jew, understand that the PVV thinks so. You don't touch mosques. I just looked for it, but I found a motion from you and Mr Wilders, dated 30 May 2018. It's a short motion: The Chamber, heard the debate, calls on the government to close all mosques, and goes to the order of the day. Of course, you may close mosques without using violence; absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u100	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u101	Can you shed your light on that? Do you still think three years later that all mosques in the Netherlands should be closed? If so, can you explain how that should be done? How are we gonna shut them all down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u102	Yeah, then the debate is going a whole other way, but that's okay. At that time, in 2018, we discussed this very extensively. This can also be read back in the Acts of that time. Organised places where anti-democratic and anti-legal matters are preached, encouraged and facilitated, and which therefore serve as a basic infrastructure for the undermining of democracy and the rule of law, we do not need in the Netherlands, whether they are of one totalitarian ideology or another, I already have a very bright idea of this or of the other totalitarian ideology. We do not need them here in the Netherlands, so we must make that impossible. How are we gonna do that? That will require legislation, so it will simply go along the democratic path.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u103	Mr. Cedar in the third instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u104	So in summary, you say you can't commit arson, you can't type in windows and you can't use force against mosques, but they'll close, all of them, if it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u105	Yeah, just like it says in the motion and as I just explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u106	Mrs Westerveld also has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u107	I certainly do not intend to repeat the debate, but I hear a few points on which it is best to change things. Mr. De Graaf gives a great deal of credit for Jewish-Christian culture. He says that women are equal and that homosexuality is accepted. Well, I can tell Mr. De Graaf that there are still enough churches in the Netherlands, leaving the good ones, where women are not allowed on the pulpit and where people have to do penance if they are gay. Mr De Graaf also states that he reads horrible things in the Qur'an, among others. I can also mention him a number of points in the Bible: that you must stay away from women who are menstruating, that you may sell your daughter as a slave, that you may stone women who commit adultery. A very specific question was put here by Mrs Belhaj of D66. She said, "What do you think of discrimination?" How do you feel about people who are discriminated against and dismissed on the basis of what they believe? You did not give a specific answer, but I would like to know what you think about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u108	A two-stage missile, I believe. First the examples about the churches and the Christian faith and also about the Bible. For the good listener: I have just answered that very clearly. I have spoken about the different timelines in which the doctrine of salvation within Islam and Christianity runs. The examples mentioned by Mrs Westerveld are all from the Old Testament, in which there are indeed stories about that menstruation, about stoning and that sort of thing. This has just been replaced by the New Testament and the figure of Jesus Christ who preaches something completely different and thus actually sets Christian faith on the right track. Islam is the other way around. There it goes from goodness to barbarism instead of the other way around. Well, that's part of an answer to that. And when it comes to discrimination on the basis of one's faith: that is why I stand here against the increasing influence of Islam in the Netherlands. If you carefully study the Qur'an, the Sira, the life description, the biography of Muhammad, and the Hadith, the traditions of the prophet Muhammad, you will see one great appeal to discrimination against other believers, of unbelievers and of faith-deprivers, i.e. ex-Muslims. It's full of them. I would say: read that; take note of that, because that makes a whole part of the debate superfluous. That's why I'm standing up to it. And if people are indeed forced to atone for being homosexual within churches, I would say to that person: please leave that church. You can come here and talk to me, and we'll figure out a church where you can feel at home. 'Cause I hate that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u109	This wasn't my point. My point is that Mr De Graaf glorifies the Jewish-Christian culture, also on the basis of ancient books, and then, in a selective sense, brings in other books to put away a different culture and religion. My point is this: let's not put people away on the basis of what they believe. Let's judge people based on who they are, what they do, based on their individual. And that is the whole problem here: that we have a debate here about Islamophobia, about discrimination, and that we then turned the debate around here. We're not talking about some people being judged by their origins, people not being adopted by their last name, and so on, but we're getting a story going the other way here. And that is why I ask Mr De Graaf whether he does not agree with us that we should reject discrimination on all grounds and not make excuses on the basis of books that are generally quite old, so that one group should be dismissed on that basis and not the other group. 'Cause that's what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u110	Then Mrs Westerveld did not listen fully to my answer or to the answers I gave to questions from other Members of Parliament. I'm not going to repeat that all over again. I want people not to be discriminated against on the basis of origin, because they are Jewish, Christian or whatever. That's what I don't want. I want people to be judged on their individual and to be able to develop themselves individually and personally. And that's not based on those old books. No, that is based on the possibility offered by the Bible by that salvation history in the person of Jesus Christ, the New Testament after the Old Testament, to come to that development, which has just opened the door to religious criticism, to criticism of Christianity. That's what I like about you. A very large part of our legislation is even based on that. The piece of the ten commandments and the like even comes back to that. And I love that. I'd like to keep it that way. I want to preserve that. In that sense, I am indeed conservative. But I am also very much in favour of the development of the individual. And precisely the development within the doctrine of salvation of Christianity allows this development in a very beautiful way. And there, I think, we should shake hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u111	You have only half a minute to finish your speech, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u112	Yes, Mr. Chairman. We were talking about the anti-Jewish sentiments. That is why I wanted to say a moment ago: as a PVV, we support Israel for a reason, the only democracy between Islamic dictatorships. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. One of the characteristics of a free society is that there is a huge diversity. hallelujah: diversity! It is, and will continue to be, sentiments and opinions. Explaining anti-Islamic sentiments as a problem means nothing more than banning criticism of totalitarian ideologies. It's cancel culture avant la lettre. Mr President, I have two more sentences. And then free society is gone. We shouldn't want that. At the end, Islam wins. And that's why the PVV is here: to prevent that. Why don't you disagree with that? We want the preservation of a free society with sovereignty for countries and individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u113	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Ms Becker, who speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u114	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a free country. Everyone can be themselves and discrimination is not allowed. Unfortunately, it does not always work that way in practice. According to the SCP, 55% of Muslims in the Netherlands sometimes feel discriminated against. That's terrible. If you want to apply as a Muslim, rent a house or go to the mosque in a safe way, you should not encounter resistance or insecurity because of your faith. If you have to see that there are Muslim-free zones or if you hear politicians in this house say "yes, hate" we cannot accept that with each other. We must fight discrimination in any form whatsoever. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet is working on the appointment of a coordinator against discrimination and racism. What is the state of this and what can it mean against discrimination against Muslims? It is also good that, together with Mr Azarkan, we are also involved in the VVD, preparing a round table on the security of mosques and that the cabinet is looking at how experienced discrimination can be better registered. I heard that Mr Azarkan also asked a question about this. We must fight this battle together. What does not help, then, is that people in this debate, for example the PVV, actually equate all Muslims, that proposals are made to ban the Koran and to de-islamize the Netherlands or that it is said to hate people. That's not helping. But what doesn't help is what happens on another flank in this Chamber, namely: when I fight against discrimination from a radical angle in Islam, when I talk about women who are not allowed to come out of their husbands on behalf of Islam or when I talk about foreign funding of mosques with which women's circumcision is recommended, with which the jihad is recommended, with which anti-Semitism is recommended, and when I propose to put an end to it, which is then put away by the DENK party as a Muslim basing. I'm sorry about that, too. Because yes, you can believe in the Netherlands whatever you want. I will always stand up for that, but that same faith should not hinder people from being part of our society. That too is discrimination. That is why I would like to ask a number of questions in that fight today, precisely because it is also important for Muslims that we fight those excesses. I would like to ask the Minister what is going on with the supervision of weekend and Qur'an schools. Can the Minister outline the outline of this? There's a majority in the Chamber that wants that. For more serious exploration, together with other EU countries, of a ban on the Grey Wolves is also a majority in the Chamber. Is the government now prepared to impose a legal ban on hymen repair, which is still taking place after the deadline set in March? Finally, can the Minister say on the basis of what frameworks he grants subsidies for the resilience of Muslims and the so-called interreligious dialogue, which he writes about in his letter? I also read earlier in the POCOB letter that the Minister would like to subsidise Arab lessons in terms of resilience, but I think it is actually questionable whether that should be a task of the government. I wonder what amount it is and how it will contribute to the resilience of Muslims in this minister's agenda. Mr President, one last sentence. The VVD wants to eradicate anti-Islam sentiments by fighting intolerance, discrimination and violence against Muslims, but also by combating the excesses of Islam itself. It's the only way we're gonna have a free society. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u115	Thank you, Mrs Becker. Then I would like to invite Mrs Simons, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Azarkan for asking for this debate. It took some time, but I agree with the application and with the contribution. Some of my colleagues in the Chamber have also spoken true words here. It is clear that we are not talking here about occasional incidents, but rather about persistent and structural forms of racism against Muslims. I predict that I will go a little over my time, but I have to think about what has happened here today. And, Mr President, that is what I am addressing you to, because I hear things here that are undoubtedly contrary to the first article of our Constitution. If we cannot respect that article here in this Chamber, Mr President, how can we ask citizens to do so? What is happening here makes it all the more poignantly clear that many of the expressions of Islamophobia in our current climate come from here, from this Chamber, directly. For many years, Muslim hatred has now normalized against Muslims. And that while the Dutch government has a duty to protect and treat all Dutch equally. That is not the case at the moment. Even with the police, Muslim discrimination has not been registered separately since 2019. Meanwhile, Dutch Muslims are deeply concerned, and rightly so, about their well-being, their safety and their future in this country. Islamophobia is not concrete fear. It is a system, a system of exclusion, a system of oppression, a system of demonisation, led by many politicians, or let me say: some politicians here in this Chamber. It is a painful truth and it must be said once, because even if we are debating anti-Islam sentiments, there are still politicians who can reasonably present themselves, filling their minutes with obligatory statements of support to all Muslims, and then going on without glances or blush and hijacking the debate again with, yes, anti-Islam sentiments. The research we are discussing here today shows once again: Islamophobia... let me put it another way. The research and what we can consider here today shows once again that Islamophobia is being set in motion, strengthened and reproduced by politics. From the biggest political stage in our country, unhindered racism is spit in the Chamber and the country. As bears on hot coal, people's representatives dance around the causes and, while it is taking place, it is not addressed. Mr. Chairman. How can we as a Chamber be surprised at the fact that racism and hatred of Muslims grow in society if we allow it here in the Chamber every day? When the whole of the Netherlands sees and hears how the discourse and the social debate, through elected politicians, increasingly demonize Muslims? I ask the outgoing minister, I ask this Chamber and I ask the President: what are we going to do about it? When do we take responsibility? In his letter, Mr Koolmees emphasised that society has a role to play in combating discrimination, but what about the role of the Chamber, of representatives of the people? What will this cabinet and this Chamber do to combat discrimination and racism, Muslim hatred and Islamophobia here? Not only to Muslims in our country, but also to Muslims who work here and represent the people? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u117	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Mrs. Becker has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u118	Mrs Simons says here that people's representatives have a role to play. I certainly agree with her. But she also says that there are a number of parties in this Chamber that first says "discrimination towards Muslims is very bad," but then comes with proposals that contribute to that discrimination towards Muslims. Then which parties is Mrs Simons talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u119	Well, the usual suspects, Mrs. Becker. We hear people say that they are against everything, but then... I point in the direction of the PVV; you will like that very much. But you, too, have just made a contribution in a very special way and I cannot escape the impression that you felt addressed by my remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u120	I also ask the speaker to speak through the chairman. So when you say "you," I feel addressed and that's not convenient. Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u121	That's right. I did feel addressed, because I think that when we talk about discrimination, we should look at the very broad range of discrimination. I challenge Mrs Simons to do that to me. On the one hand, we must ensure that we stand up fully for Muslims who feel discriminated against. But does she agree with me that a form of discrimination against Muslims can also be that, as a Muslim, for example, you cannot work from your husband, have no bank card, have your hymen restored, that your child goes to a weekend school where it learns that men and women are not equal? And I say immediately: that is not all Muslims. Most Muslims live in freedom and are very benevolent. I'm talking about the excrement, the hard core. There is a small group of people who say: that freedom is actually not for my community because of my faith. Does she agree with me that we also need to combat this form of discrimination and that this is part of this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u122	I agree with Mrs Becker that any form of violence against women by anyone, whether physical, emotional or financial, must be combated. I agree with Mrs Becker. I find it annoying that Mrs Becker seems to get it done every time she does so in a way that it seems as if she really cares about sticking these women over and over and picking out exactly that kind of violence against women because it comes from the Muslim community. The terrible conditions described by Mrs Becker are common throughout society: Christians, atheists, young people, old people, white people and black people. It occurs in everyone, in every layer of the Dutch population. I hope that Mrs Becker and I will be able to do so together. I'm really sorry if we're gonna pretend that this kind of violence against women belongs specifically to Muslims. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u123	I have a bit of a problem with this morally elevated tone, as if as a VVDer I wouldn't really worry about the position of these women. I know that Mrs Simons was not in the Chamber the previous period, but I have spent a number of years studying this group very closely, talking very much to these people and presenting an initiative paper. In that I also showed that one in ten murders in the Netherlands is now honor-related and that there is an enormous amount of religiously determined violence in the Netherlands. We should not close our eyes to that. Again, my question to Mrs Simons. If she says "I care about those women," is she willing to make sure that we take certain concrete measures, such as a ban on hymen repair, so that as a 16-year-old girl you can no longer be sent to the doctor by your father to get your hymen repaired, because otherwise you are in danger of getting violent on your wedding night? Does she agree with me that we should also stand up to this sort of thing and that that is also discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u124	Of course, I agree with Mrs Becker that I said in my first reply that we will oppose any form of violence against women, committed by anyone and from anywhere. Once again, it is a fact that I have said it before, one of the reasons why my party exists. I will not be contained in a frame that only Muslims have to fear for this kind of violence. You can make it as specific as you like. You can say "honour-related," but any form of femicide is honor-related. Every form of femicide is about a man's wounded ego, regardless of his faith, whatever his origin and financial status. So yes, let us together ensure that every woman in the Netherlands is safe. But no, let us not do so at the expense of the safety of Muslims in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u125	Mrs. Becker in fourth instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u126	Nor have I said at all that it is only a fight against violence by Muslims. When it comes to whole reformed schools asking for anti-gay statements and where young boys have to fear for their position, the VVD also stands up to fight it. But I have put a very specific question to Mrs Simons: will she support my proposal to end hymen repair in the Netherlands? So I mean that she doesn't say: yes, but that's diversity and freedom; that fits within a particular culture. I mean that she says: no, there are universal non-negotiable values, such as the freedom to have your own body, so we do not do hymen restoration in the Netherlands. Is she willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u127	I already answered that question with a yes. But there's something I can add. I believe that the word'self-decision' has been used. That's what I'm here for, plain and simple. From now on, Mrs Becker, you will never have to doubt that at all. Perhaps that reassures you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u128	I'm glad to hear that. I don't understand the defense of Islam. But I have a point from the beginning of Mrs Simons' speech which I would have liked to have clarified. I thought I heard some criticism of the chairman for a moment. I would like to know exactly what Mrs Simons' criticism of the President was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u129	You are asking for my criticism of the chairman. I am not even talking about this chairman; the chairman of the Lower House is someone else at different times, as you know. My criticism of the President, or the question I would like to ask the President, is at what point he intends to stand up for the first article of our Constitution and prevent statements from being made against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u130	Mr. De Graaf, in the second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u131	I also cared about the function, not the person. Of course I am very pleased with this chairman; I am glad that she wants to lead this debate tonight, in person, but of course I was concerned about the position. But what does Mrs Simons propose if she finds out what she has just seen? What should the President do in that case?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u132	I believe that every Member of Parliament here has promised to abide by the Constitution and stand in front of the Constitution. The first article of that Constitution is the principle of anti-discrimination. It says, among other things, that everyone is free, regardless of race, belief... Well, you know it, if it's okay. It would be nice if all Members of Parliament, including Members of Parliament who identify themselves as Muslims, knew to be protected by that first article in our Constitution, and the President at any rate took note of it at the time that security was violated here in this Chamber. The point is that the President should at least mention it, make a comment on it and remind the person who is guilty of it of the fact that we all here, all 150 of us, have promised to uphold the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u133	Mr. De Graaf, in the third instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u134	Yes, in the third place, indeed. I think I can have four, right? Yes. Then I'll get to the point about men's violence. I thought, in that sense, of Mrs Simons, that I actually heard a violent form of'masculophobia'; let me call it that. Should the chairman have intervened?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u135	Some people use the word "revenge." I prefer to use the word "femicide." Do you know the phenomenon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u136	Nothing is unknown to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u137	Good. Then you know that femicide is committed by men on women. Is there anything about that sentence, Mr. De Graaf, that you don't understand? I'll ask through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u138	No, only the sentence went so fast and it was such a quick paragraph that I asked for clarification because I was afraid, based on what you said earlier, that there might be "masculophobia." Then you are actually calling on the President to speak to yourself or to mention a sentence that you have spoken. And I have been clear in my own speech about violence against anyone, about how I stand in it and how we stand in it as a party, I think. But I'm glad you cleared this up, because it happened so fast that I couldn't follow. I'm glad it's been cleared up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u139	Mrs Simons, one last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u140	I don't have one, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u141	Fine. Then thank you for your input. I call Mrs Leijten. It speaks on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u142	There is no discrimination in our society. Discrimination is unauthorized discrimination based on gender, belief, sexual preference, orientation, age, gender. The government is the first to set an example. Mr. Chairman. You have also been chairman of many debates in which the harsh discriminatory element of the supplement scandal has often been discussed. I would like to ask Mr Koolmees, the Minister for Integration, how he thinks that an appeal to all of us to abide by the prohibition of discrimination, the making of unauthorized discrimination, can be made credible by a government that discriminates itself down to its roots on the basis of your income, your family size, your nationality. 'Cause that's what happened with the supplemental scandal. I also ask him how things stand with cleaning up all those systems at the UWV, which are so richly shared with the Tax Administration. It contains the same discriminatory bases for selecting people and making them a fraud. Mr. Chairman. For the SP, everyone who stays in the Netherlands should be able to participate safely and freely in society. Threat and insecurity aren't part of this. If you're not free to go to the mosque, that's terrible. I hear from the community very strongly: must things go wrong before something is done? I would actually like to ask this Minister. And then I want to talk about the development of the far right, because that comes from somewhere. Intimidation platforms such as Vizier op Links also tackle scientists: intimidation as a goal to disrupt the debate. How does the government feel about this? When will the sharing of the addresses of such people be stopped through, for example, the Chamber of Commerce? Are our security forces and police well aware of reports and take anti-Islam sentiments seriously? We know that extreme right is growing and that they always want to spread strange elements. So they're often people of color. So these are often people with different beliefs. Jewish people can also talk about this. Women and scientists. Mrs. Sterckenburg writes in her book "But you can't say that" that the government has too little regard for these extreme right-wing groups and that there are even people who are willing to carry out an attack, who take shooting lessons. What does the government do about it? How does the Cabinet respond to that book? Mr. Chairman. This is not an integration debate, which it is. Can't be safe because of threats based on anything, is a line across. And if you cross the line, you cross the line. Period. At the same time, this is a debate. We have also seen it for a while, in which you see the extremes opposite each other. They are throwing oil on the fire and this is not about the solutions and, for example, a government that sets a good example. As a result, that fire will always flare up and grow, and that puts us all at risk. Let's be honest. Such a visor on the Left...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u144	Mr. Chairman. Seriously, I'm just finishing my sentence. That Vizier on the Left is threatening. That may not make the stickers from Gouda literal, but that threatens free voices that should take part in our debate. And if we close our eyes to this, as scientist Sterkenburg said, then that is a real danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Mr. Ceder, you have the floor. On behalf of the Christian Union Group, Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that people have been given the freedom to make choices in life from their deepest beliefs and beliefs and that we have been called to share this freedom. I also experienced the freedom to be and choose to be in Christ's imitation at the age of 17. I am well aware that there are countries where you would not be able to do so openly and where even persecution takes place for what you believe. I am glad that this is not the case in the Netherlands and that religious freedom is one of the pillars of our society. These freedoms apply to everyone, and we must stand up for them in this Chamber, especially when it comes to a minority. That is why I felt it was important to participate in this debate. Mr. Chairman. I am concerned about the treatment of Dutch people with a Muslim background. This debate was requested in 2019, because dozens of stickers were stuck in Gouda with very negative statements about Muslims. Things haven't gotten much better since. In fact, not so long ago the AIVD found that there is a strong revival of right-wing extremistism, in which Islam hatred is a certain motive. There have been incidents in recent years. Molotov cocktails have been thrown into mosques. There was a beheaded doll at a mosque. Rocks have been thrown through windows. That's what I'm worried about. Mr. Chairman. It must be clear that it is not the case that there should be no criticism of religion or ideologies. Such criticism must be absolutely open, including in the public debate. I also think it's okay to sand it. We need to have strong debates with each other, including on radical ideas. But that should never justify the exposure of people, in this case Muslims, to violence and intimidation. Because fundamental rights apply to every citizen. Everyone in the Netherlands must and must know and feel a full citizen, and must be given the freedom to choose to believe or not to believe. At the time, the Minister indicated in his letter that the cabinet was using a broad cabinet approach to combat discrimination. I was wondering: what steps have been taken in recent times? What results can he share with us? And what is there according to the outgoing cabinet, what is needed in the eyes of the minister in the coming period? I was also wondering what the secretary of security thinks. I do not yet have a firm opinion on this, but I was wondering if the Minister could share some of that. Does he consider that necessary at times, or not? That's what I like to hear from the Minister. I see it as an assignment for all of us to keep talking about each other with respect. Let us not talk about groups that we face each other, but let us talk as individuals, from man to man. I see it as an assignment to continue to acknowledge the intrinsic value of each person. We live in a society where there are differences and where there are also differences. Let us therefore, as members of the House of Representatives, stand up for the rights of all Dutch people. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van der Plas. She speaks for BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had prepared a whole input that I have here in front of me. But I do not want to do so, because I just want to say that I do not know what I have been listening to this evening. I've been getting a little scrambled up here, and that's what I'd like to say. I thought it was about trying as a Chamber to find solutions to racism, to hatred towards other groups of the population. I've been looking at this with increasing amazement, because in the meantime it started to look like one big you-bowl, with the introduction of some exceptions aside, by the way. "You say this" and "you say that." It was about fascism, about racism. It all went a little bit against each other. People who are watching at home had hoped that steps would be taken here in response to the letter we received. I had that hope myself. But these people are coming home from a cold carnival. At least I think I'm coming home from a cold carnival. Because we are now an hour and a half away and I have actually heard very little constructively throughout the debate. Everyone has been able to pee and has come up with all kinds of opinions and assumptions. But in the meantime, we haven't moved on. I wonder: what are we going to do about these problems in society? What are we going to do about things like what happened in Gouda, with stickers and hate towards each other? That's what I came here for tonight. We were chosen here to change things in the Netherlands, and to make the Netherlands better. But when I hear some people having a debate, I really see that very hard. 'Cause it's just "you" versus "she," "hullie" versus "will you." I think life is pretty simple: if everyone lives by that one spell, we can all go through one door together. The spell is: what you don't want to happen to you, don't do to anyone else. In my opinion, this applies both to the Chamber and to society. Then I would like to put three questions to the Minister, whom I have ticked here. Here's what I'd like to know. A bill is being prepared to clarify the citizenship mandate to schools. How's that going? What progress has been made on tackling internship discrimination and further integration into the labour market? And there is a program in which local directors are supported off- and online by discussing issues and dilemmas, with inspirational examples and concrete handles. That was a little vague for me. So I want to know what's going on with that. This is about the program Divers & Including. I have asked three specific questions. The input I had for the rest, I leave it for what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u149	But before you leave the chair, Mrs. Becker has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u150	Mrs van der Plas points out that she is a little disappointed in the quality of the debate and in her colleagues in the Chamber. She expected a little more from us. I will take that to heart. I'll take another look. I think I have put a number of substantive questions and put proposals myself. But what she is doing now is asking three stand-of-business questions about the policy of the cabinet. She said we were going to have this debate to improve the approach to racism and discrimination, right? I wonder what specific proposals Mrs van der Plas would have liked to make or would have wanted to contribute to that debate and ideas. I am genuinely curious about that, because I think this is the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u151	So you ask me to read my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u152	You could also take out the concrete proposals and share them with us, because that is how we move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u153	My specific proposals would be that we, as a Chamber, should be talking to each other anyway in order to get rid of this polarization and of this 'we against them'. I'd really like that. I have already heard the other predecessors say: if it starts in the Chamber, how can we do it towards society? That was one of my concrete proposals. I had the idea this evening that this debate had been requested, which was two years ago in any case, but that does not matter because a number of people want to argue against each other. That's no use to me. Whether I agree with Mr. De Graaf, with Mrs. Simons or with Mr. Azarkan, we can sit here against each other you-bake, but we can't get anywhere. So that was one of the proposals to make. How can we try to get through one door in the Chamber without calling each other racist or terrorist or fascist? How can we start here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u154	Mrs Leijten, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u155	I think I made that call, or at least that analysis, that if the loudest voices only sound, you won't come up with any solutions. I think we see that a lot in this room. But does Mrs Van der Plas of the BoerCitizen Movement think there is a problem with discrimination and racism in our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u156	Sure. Sure. We are also very clear about this in our electoral programme. Discrimination and racism are punishable. Period. That needs to be addressed. We strongly reject all forms of discrimination, racism, hatred and violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u157	That's very good. I think that should be the bottomline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u158	You didn't doubt that, did you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u159	No, but there could be questions about that. The debate is sometimes also in favour of asking for clarification on how to interpret that and where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u160	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u161	If we then look at certain statements made here in the Chamber, does Mrs van der Plas think that they could be an infringement of non-discrimination and not unauthorized discrimination, what we have as Article 1 of our Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u162	Yeah, I've been clear about that. I don't approve of that. But I do not know what specific example Mrs Leijten is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u163	Mrs Leijten, you are actually through your interruptions, so I am going to urge you to ask your last question very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u164	Mrs Van der Plas is of course new here. That's refreshing for everyone. She says here: I have done away with my speech, because I want to point out this debate. Fine, that's fine. She also says: discrimination and racism are a problem and should not. When she looks at that debate, among other things tonight, are there people in this Chamber who are being discriminated against or racist according to her analysis? 'Cause she's watching that. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u165	I'd be happy to answer your question, but I don't quite understand where you're going with this. Now, would you like me to start naming people, saying, "He said that?" 'Cause then I'm gonna do what just happened here. So that's what I don't want. And we have a President of the Chamber. If people are being discriminated against or racist, I think the President of the Chamber should intervene. And yes, you could be interrupting, but a President of the Chamber also has a role to play. I have heard Mrs Arib regularly correct Members of Parliament in the past. It's not so weird that a President of the Chamber does that at all. But I'm not sure what you want from me right now. I don't understand your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u166	Maybe it's hard to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u167	No, you're not!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u168	No. Do you think that, in this debate or in general, things are being said in the House of Representatives that you might characterize as racist or discriminatory?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u169	Well, I didn't hear it in this debate. I've heard opinions you can agree with or disagree with. But I haven't heard people speak out against people here, no. Or I missed that. But apparently Mrs Leijten does, because she wants to go somewhere. Otherwise, I don't understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u170	Mrs Leijten simply asked a question and you replied. And Mrs Leijten has already asked all her questions, so I am not going to give her the floor again, actually. No, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u171	But my question is being ridiculed. I think that's an objection, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u172	That's a personal...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u173	I'm trying to put it briefly. I do not want to put Mrs van der Plas in a particular corner either. That was not my intention at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u174	Then you've made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u175	I think you're sitting here as a spectator, so maybe you'll see what others deny of each other or put away as a you-bowl. If we say that discrimination and racism are prohibited, that we do not want to allow it, and that the President of the Chamber is supposed to intervene when that happens, then I am curious what you see as a new Member of Parliament. You say you did not see that in this debate. It's fine, isn't it? Then that's the answer. I didn't mean anything by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u176	Thank you very much for the explanation, Mrs Leijten. And thank you, Mrs Van der Plas, for your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u177	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u178	The next speaker is Mr Eerdmans, who is speaking on behalf of the JA21 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u179	Thank you, Mr President. JA21 is against any form of hatred, violence and intolerance. Let me start with that. If Mr. Azarkan isn't there all the time, what he's been doing all night, then I can just continue my contribution. Mr. Azarkan, we are against extremism, racism and orthodoxy. And this debate is about anti-islam sentiments in society. The question is what caused it. That's, I think, just a very good question. Unfortunately, the list is quite long. They are countless attacks in Europe and outside Europe, with dozens and in some cases hundreds dead. It's the murder of Theo van Gogh, it's the threats to teachers when they teach about the concept of "freedom of speech" or when they show a cartoon. Anyone who criticizes Islam, whether it's legal scholar Afshin Ellian or our colleague Wilders, has a security problem. Jewish schools and synagogues must be permanently guarded. In salafistic mosque schools, children are told what to do with unbelievers, whips or stoning. It is a Muslim party like NIDA, who wants to separate men and women in a room at Erasmus University. It's the concrete blocks at the death memorial. And so on, and so on. The list is long. That is where anti-Islam sentiments come from, Mr President. This can lead to extremism, radicalism and danger on the other hand. That could go crazy. That may be oil on the fire, but it is now written, broad, that half of the Muslims in Europe have intolerant views. 40% of Muslims in six European countries who have been investigated think Jews cannot be trusted. Among Christians that is 8%. 47% of these Muslims do not want homosexual friends, Mr. Azarkan, compared to 11% of Christians. One in ten Dutch Muslims can imagine using force for the faith. That is not everyone, but these are worrying figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u180	Now my flexibility is vengeful on some of the speakers. Actually, you were through your interruptions, Mr. Azarkan. But I'm overlooking a short, next interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u181	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. That's well-maintained. I have about three more questions, so I'd like to use them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u182	If you make it compact in one go, we have an appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u183	If I sum up Mr Eerdmans' contribution, he says the following. We're dealing with exclusion right now. 55% of Muslims are affected by this in the labour market and housing market. Actually, he says that they owe it to themselves; that's their own fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u184	You have heard me: I do not think that any Muslim can be addressed to the behavior of others. That is exactly the beginning of my contribution. What is understandable is that there are indeed a lot of people who are concerned about Islam and are afraid of it. That's a fact. It's coming from somewhere. That is what this debate is about: what is this sentiment based on? That's not because people think, by definition, that I shouldn't have any of Islam. People are frightened by what they see and what they hear. Research shows this. That is, I think, a relevant fact to indicate the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u185	Last but not least, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u186	Well, then, I've summarized that correctly. Mr Eerdmans actually says: if people in our society are discriminated against, because others who look like them do something or because others have the same faith, then that is actually justified, because that is the fault of others; that is the case. But does Mr Eerdmans really think that this justifies the fact that people are excluded from an internship, unable to find a job or not? Or does Mr Eerdmans see that, as politicians but also as a cabinet, we have a role to play in tackling this, because that is contrary to Article 1 of our Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u187	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u188	Or is it just your own fault, big bump, then you should have chosen a different religion, then you should have chosen other people or people in other countries but shouldn't have attacked? He brought up Pim Fortuyn. By the way, it wasn't a Muslim who...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u189	I didn't bring that up at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u190	The murder of Theo van Gogh.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u191	Yeah, that's what I was talking about. Yeah, keep listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u192	Mr. Eerdmans!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u193	Just your own fault, big bump.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u194	The answer is yes. Absolutely we want to do something about it, absolutely. There are a lot of debates on this too, and that is what we are following. The first thing I am saying is that we are against discrimination. If someone is excluded because he believes something or is thrown away because he is a Muslim, then that's wrong. Ready. But if you're asking me where the sentiment comes from... that lives in the living rooms... that people think "well, that Islam, that's what we're a little afraid of, that's what we're worried about," then... And I am not even talking about individual Muslims, but about the phenomenon of Islam. Indeed, Fortuyn............................................................................................................................................................ People feel that sentiment is there. Perhaps that has made Mr Wilders' PVV big too. We can just establish that, can't we? Well, if we find that with each other, then you should not say unilaterally about everyone who is discriminated against: that is because of radicals of the law who think that Islam is a problem. A lot of people do have problems with Islam, but it is still absolutely no ground to say to people on an individual basis "you don't belong here" or "you don't get that job" or "you can't go to school here." That's totally wrong. That's where you'll find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u195	And is JA21 going to do something about that, or do we see here the former alderman, Mr Eerdmans, who in Rotterdam was just going to fill in that sentiment by saying: I don't want Islamic butcheries anymore in this street; I just close the space in terms of permits for that? Does Mr Eerdmans now say that I am going to continue with this, because in my election programme I am putting in place a number of non-legal solutions with which I treat people with an Islamic background or asylum seekers who are Muslims differently? Or is Mr Eerdmans going to put what he just said into practice? How does Mr Eerdmans put this approach into practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u196	You keep persevering about what you like. That amounts to throwing a lot of oil on fires, hoping that people will fall for it. We have indeed advocated diversity in Rotterdam. I would add that that was in my role as alderman at the time. That used to be something that might appeal to you, but if you have a street with five call shops and three shishalounges, then I think it is important to include a Dutch vegetable farmer or baker. That is what we thought, and that was in a college with Mr Belhaj of D66, so it may be. We have indeed done so. We proposed that. I think that's good. There's no Islamophobia or hatred of people behind that. It was about giving people in a neighborhood a more diverse offer in the shopping streets. You're trying to tie all sorts of things to that. We are certainly willing to see in all kinds of ways how to make people come to justice and how to ensure that people are excluded on the basis of their skin colour or faith. Everyone has to believe what they want, but that is not what this debate is about at all. You can draw me out of this, but it is a question of where these anti-Islam sentiments come from. That's what I've been trying to do. That's definitely one side of the story. The other side is: what do you do with people who are the victims of it, when they can't do anything about it at all? That is a valid point. You can't say "Joost, or Eerdmans, I can't hear you about that" because you're definitely gonna hear us about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u197	I'm inclined to ask you to continue your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u198	Yeah, I'm almost ready. I would like to say one more thing about the report on Islamophobia. A phobia is described as an unfounded, unmotivated fear, but that is just not the point in Islam. The fear of Islam, I think, is based on images from research, as I just said. So I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Does the Minister find the fear of Islam unfounded? I think that is a very simple question. Maybe he wants to go into that. Finally, Mr President. As said, JA21 has nothing against individual Muslims. Anyone who can agree in the Netherlands, who wants to play their part there and wants to participate, is, in my opinion, a full participant and part of our society. We do not need Mr Azarkan and DENK at all to understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u199	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u200	Mr Eerdmans just listed a number of things that have happened by Muslim extremists. He actually indicated: that's why people find Muslims scary, or that might be why people hate Muslims or have problems with Muslims. He chose his own words for that. I find that interesting. Of course, there's nothing wrong with having a gut feeling or having conversations with people in which this comes out. I'm sure it is. I'm sure those people will be there. There are also Muslims who are terrified that Muslims with rather extreme ideas are killing people who criticize Islam. There are. But my question is, where are you getting this from? The Verwey-Jonker Institute has conducted research into the causes of Muslim discrimination in the Netherlands and the trigger factors involved. It doesn't include the list. What is mentioned in particular is that when people have little contact with Muslims, it is very important for how they look at them. The way in which the media writes about people who are crazy in my terminology and use Islam to kill people or whatever, also affects them. When you put it that way, my question is: where do you get it that that's why people hate Muslims?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u201	Well, "Muslim hate" is a very annoying word to me. People are scared. Maybe that's why some people hate Islam. I hope they don't hate Muslims, but I think that's why people have a lot of concerns about Islam. That's the thought I have. By the way, the research I mentioned by Koopmans and others shows that a lot of people who are questioned about this also admit that. They say: we find it hard not to appreciate our son coming home with a boyfriend as gay or not counting on applause when we talk about Jews. So this indeed shows how much resistance there is to our current standards of freedom in the Netherlands. I can therefore imagine that it is partly the cause of people saying that they have problems with it, have problems with it and find it annoying. I wish I didn't. That is my feeling about the anti-islam sentiments that live in the Netherlands. You say that this is mainly due to the radical right, which is slandered by all kinds of... that will undoubtedly also contribute. I think you're right about that, too. This is also apparent from Verwey-Jonker's research. But I think the main issue is, and this is also evident from many other research, that people have started to think very reservedly about Islam through attacks and through all kinds of other things that have taken place in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u202	Mrs. Belhaj, last but not least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u203	Look, I think it's important at least in these debates, whether you agree or disagree, to be very careful about what you're talking about. So if you're saying that there are people who are afraid of Muslims out there can hate them and whatever extremist behavior comes out to Muslims, I think it should be a bit harsh. I know the stories. I know people find certain things frightening. But precisely because Verwey-Jonker's research stated something quite different... That means, and so I know Mr Eerdmans, also from Rotterdam, that you have to be very careful about what problem you address and what solution you have for that. Because if the solution is "we need to work more on arguing about freedom," I am the first to argue that; so have I. But if, in this case, the solution is to create more contacts and to be more careful in public statements in a social debate to stop it, then I would be glad if Mr Eerdmans dared to go along that route if that is the best solution. We just want people not to hate each other. I ask Mr Eerdmans, through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u204	As is often the case, we end up together, but in our Rotterdam a teacher of social studies, from the school where our son goes next year, had to go into hiding, because he had shown the cartoon on a regular lesson about the phenomenon of freedom of speech. Then where are we? Should we blame Mr. Wilders, or others who name this, I don't know who's dragging Mrs. Simons into it, or the VVD? Is that the cause of the problem? I just don't believe that, I just don't believe that. I think people are really a little wiser than that. Everyone does that in their own tone; I fully agree with that. Everyone chooses their own words. But that that kind of thing that happens to us in the Netherlands makes people think about Islam, seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u205	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Before you leave the chair, Mrs Simons has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u206	As Mrs Belhaj said, if you're having conversations like this, it's very good to know what definitions and along which lines you're doing that. We have this debate, among other things, following a letter from Mr Koolmees and the report below. It says: "Islamophobia is the construction of a negative, generalizing and essentialist definition of Islam that leads to the making of a hierarchical distinction between non-Muslims and Muslims. This is done to problem the Muslims as a group on the basis of their religion." If we are to have a debate here today in which everyone actually speaks against discrimination and against exclusion, my question to Mr Eerdmans is what constructive contribution he and his party think they can make to connecting society and removing this negative, generalising and essentialist definition of Islam that leads to a hierarchical distinction between non-Muslims and Muslims.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u207	That distinction must not be made. If you're talking about all the facets that we care about, finding work, finding a school, finding all the opportunities you can pick, you shouldn't be dependent on what you believe in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u208	The question was what constructive contribution Mr Eerdmans and his party are prepared to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u209	Well, that's what we're gonna see in the years to come. You know me from the school of Rotterdam and from Fortuyn. We say what it says at JA21. We will. We don't run around problems. We'll tell you where something's coming from, where we think the problem is rubbing, where it goes wrong. At the same time, with you, I am in favour of optimism. We must try to find each other and see where we see the similarities, including in the House of Representatives. You can differ about the content, in debates and how you want to govern the country. At the same time, I also think that you can pay attention to words, what you say, how you say them, and what you want to contribute, so not for your own purpose. I also said this in the debate on the information situation. I agree with Mrs Van der Plas. You have to try to narrow down contradictions. I hate the way DENK thinks he should operate, namely by always burning that fire again. I just don't like that. I think you should name what it's all about, but try to find each other where you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u210	I still haven't gotten an answer to my question. However, I have heard a reproach towards DENK, but I still have not heard how Mr Eerdmans and his party JA21 want to make a concrete contribution to removing and stopping it, from the political point of view, after all, we are here in the Second Chamber, building a negative, generalizing and essentialist definition of Islam that leads to fear, Islam hatred, misunderstanding and removal. What can we expect from JA21 in a constructive way that contributes to the removal of those anti-islam sentiments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u211	It's already going wrong with the definition. I don't think you can say that's an unfounded way of speaking. I think it's grounded. I have tried to show that there are indeed problems in the world, in Europe and in the Netherlands, which make people think that way. You have to realize that. If that's not what you want, I think that's a defect of B.E.O. That's where it all goes wrong. That's where people are being tracked. That's where it goes wrong. These are things that we cannot just change, but we do have proposals for them. If you read our JA21 programme, you will see that we clearly explain how we believe that our country can be better protected against these excesses, against orthodoxy, against radicalism. I'm trying to point out that that needs to be done. You can or can't agree with that. At the same time, I realize what my role as a Member of Parliament is, what is the way I come across, what words are and how you can hurt people with that. You have to stop that. So that is important, but I think that we in our entire programme indicate how we want to 'grow up' the Netherlands and reduce problems. This includes problems of people who are excluded, 100%. So I think that, if you read our programme correctly, you will see sufficient indications in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u212	Mrs Simons, last but not least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u213	Then I am still looking for the answer to the question, unless I have listened carefully and have actually heard that JA21 can only stimulate these sentiments, because in the answer... you refer me to your election programme. Excuse me, I'll pass. I am now here with you in a debate and I am now asking you the question through the President. I ask you very explicitly what we can expect from JA21 and your answer is nothing. Because we are having this debate on the basis of the letter and the research that is underneath, and Mr Eerdmans cannot agree with the definition contained in it of what is "islamophobia." In other words, based on what we have been doing here, we do not have to expect any contribution from JA21. That is also a clear answer. Thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u214	But is Mrs Simons even listening? Yeah, running away is one thing, but I wish people would listen. If you just listen to what I'm saying, maybe you can do something with that. Then you can answer that. If you're just reading a song in the sense of "you just want to spread further hate" or whatever your pre-educated point is, isn't that going to help us at all, Mrs Simons?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u215	Madam President, I think I am through my interruptions, but I see that you allow me...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u216	I will allow you to make one last comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u217	Thank you. I have asked Mr Eerdmans a number of times to reflect on the debate we are having on the basis of the letter from Minister Koolmees and on the basis of the report below, i.e. on the basis of the definition used in it. I'm being accused of not listening properly. I have listened very carefully and I have heard Mr Eerdmans say that he does not agree with the definition that is being used for this; we will be able to read that in the Acts. So, yes, what other conclusion should I draw than that Mr Eerdmans cannot reflect at all and does not want to reflect or commit to that definition and to the actions accompanying it to remove the anti-Islam sentiments that we are discussing here today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u218	Mr. Eerdmans, the final reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u219	Islamophobia is not a phobia. There is a well-founded fear of Islam. That is the conclusion I am making; that is my answer to the report. I explained that to you. Two: there are therefore grounds for people to think negative about Islam. There are reasons for this. We will therefore have to work to reduce radicalism, including within Islam, orthodoxy, people with intolerant views about people, about women, about homosexuals. We need to work on that. There are many more things at stake, such as the border. How do you open the border? Mrs Becker mentioned that. Foreign influences, mosque internates. There are plenty of issues. That's what I brought in. It's in our program. You don't like to read our program, but you ask for it. We need to work on this in order to ensure that we remain a tolerant society and, above all, become better and more and that people can tolerate each other. I have indicated that this is not the case with large groups of Muslims. So if you want to hear that, you just have your ears closed, but this is the contribution of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u220	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Then it's the CDA's turn by Mr. Heerma's mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been some time since I was allowed to do an integration debate as a CDA chamber member. One sometimes speaks of a celebration of recognition, but in this case it is mainly recognition. The Netherlands has a long tradition as an open and tolerant country. That guarantee requires a great deal of effort from all of us. With the increased polarisation, the hardening of the social and political debate and the short fuse, for example on social media, this is not self-evident. Muslims are not the only victims, but if you look at that hardening and polarization, you must note that Muslims are increasingly reaping the bitter fruits of things like Muslim hatred and discrimination. The report on everyday Islamophobia published in 2019, which is one of the reasons for this debate, gives many examples of this. Some of these examples are motivated by unconscious prejudices, but they are unconscious prejudices that add to people's feeling that they do not matter, that they are second-class citizens, that they are excluded and that they have unequal opportunities. It is important to combat this, for example by tackling labour market or internship discrimination. Politics has an important role to play here. We must go further in this debate than simply naming problems. I must say that I found Mrs van der Plas' contribution, which she wrote on the spot, refreshing, also because she refers to the golden rule. I think that's an important basic condition for living together. I recognize a lot of what she said about that. Fortunately, the necessary has also happened since the request for this debate. A lot of motions have been tabled. Many initiatives have been shown. I would therefore like to ask what is going on with a number of matters; Mrs Becker has already done so. Last year there was a major debate here in July on institutional racism. Motions have been tabled to establish a national coordinator for discrimination and racism. Together with Mr Asscher, I have tabled a motion to establish a state committee. I believe that both are still under consideration in the Cabinet at the moment. I'd like to know what's going on with Minister Koolmees. I would also like to ask that question with regard to a motion tabled by former colleague Van den Berge van GroenLinks and my colleague Anne Kuik on an app to report internship discrimination at a low threshold, because that really is a problem. I don't think the cabinet has picked this up yet. I was talking about unintended prejudices, but if you look at the direct cause of this debate, stickers that say "Muslim-free zone," but also the threats of mosques that we saw at the beginning of this year, then that has nothing to do with unintended prejudices. These are conscious and disgusting expressions of intolerance, hatred and discrimination. I think Mr Leijten is right to say that this is not really a debate on discrimination, because that is a criminal offence in this country. When it comes to spreading hate language, it's not freedom of speech. This is a criminal offence, it must be dealt with and it must be dealt with through criminal law. My question is what about the willingness to report it. Domenica Ghidei, the representative of the Netherlands in the Council of Europe, has for some time warned that the willingness to report is low, partly because there is no confidence that such hate crimes will be punished. It even states that the punishment, for example of group termination, leaves something to be desired in the Netherlands. I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u222	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Then we have come to the last speaker from the Chamber, and that is Mrs Westerveld, who will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it would be good to talk about the problems that this report describes, but which we have also been able to read in more recent reports. When I listen to the contributions of a number of colleagues, I actually hear that everyone is against discrimination and against exclusion, but when a number of colleagues ask for it, it turns out that there is a catch. Then it turns out that definitions are denied, that problems are denied. Then it turns out that Muslims are actually guilty themselves. I think that's amazing reasoning. By going to the dilemmas that this report is talking about, because there are. You will only live in the Netherlands and have a last name that is not easy for everyone to pronounce. You'll be lagging behind your whole life. And that starts in elementary school. Children with a migration background often receive lower school advice than other classmates. It doesn't stop there. We see a lot of examples, still, of internship discrimination; also quite a number of times addressed. We know examples of interns with headscarfs working in care, for example, who are refused by patients. And also on the labour market: there we know that a white applicant with a criminal record still has a job faster than a Dutch person with a migration background without a criminal record. Also in the housing market we see examples where brokers still cooperate in discriminatory requests because the name would sound foreign. We therefore see exclusion and discrimination throughout society. Giving people a feeling that they're not part of it has a huge personal impact. It also has catastrophic consequences for large groups. We see this, for example, in the premium affair, which Mrs Leijten rightly referred to. Apart from people themselves, discrimination and exclusion also affect our rule of law. After all, although our Constitution prescribes it, it seems that in practice not everyone is right, some people are treated differently and they have fewer opportunities. That origin and religion create exclusion is unacceptable. We cannot stress often enough that everyone deserves equal treatment and that access to society should not depend on the sounds of your name or your background. And that starts with representatives standing up against exclusion. My group is deeply concerned about the normalization of exclusion and the intolerable rhetoric, including in this House. Too often there is a hateful talk about Muslims, with an entire population being thrown into one heap. Naming is not enough; we also need to tackle it. That is why there are a number of questions to the Minister. I would like to hear from him how the cabinet can act more decisively, so that things such as the surcharge scandal do not occur more often. I would also like to ask him about the #KIESMIJ campaign against internship discrimination in the MBO. My group has previously proposed setting up an expert team that can support MBO institutions and apprenticeships in tackling internship discrimination. One final point, Mr President. I agree with Mrs Leijten, who spoke about the extreme right, and who also spoke about Vizier on the Left. We might find stickers sticking, but it does mean that people know where your house is. And when people ask questions about it, and they get the answer from the police and to questions about it, the colleague of this minister also said that some people might not have to do certain expressions... That is the reverse world, and I would also like to have a reaction from this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u224	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister would like to use 15 minutes to further prepare his term. This means that we will resume this debate at 9.50 p.m., so I expect you to return to the Chamber. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u225	Welcome back, to the MPs and to the minister. I give Minister Koolmees the floor for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u226	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the Members of Parliament for the questions asked. I have a brief introduction. After that, I try as staccato as possible. There are a lot of questions asked to answer the actual questions. Some of you have already indicated that the request for debate of 15 January 2019 is. It's been a while. The letter to which reference is made is also from the beginning of 2019. In the meantime, a lot has happened. I will take that up in a moment in response to Mr Heerma's questions. We then talked about the stickers in Gouda; that was the direct reason for requesting this debate. More widely, anti-islam sentiments are often seen by but also by public incidents. Reporting points also record peaks in reports of Muslim discrimination after such incidents. Unfortunately, Muslim discrimination is an everyday experience for many. Many of you have referred to this today. The SCP report Experienced discrimination, which the Ministry of SZW had carried out in 2020, shows that 55% of Muslims experience chronic discrimination. The annual report Discrimination figures from 2019 show that 69% of reports of religious discrimination in anti-discrimination facilities were related to the Islamic faith. That is a real problem in the Netherlands in 2021. Let me be clear: discrimination, including that of Muslims, is unacceptable. The signals and figures on the nature and extent of Muslim discrimination are worrying. It is a serious matter, often with great consequences for the victims, the individuals. It is also disruptive for our society. I therefore think it is important to stress that combating discrimination and racism and preventing the emergence of anti-Islamic sentiments are a responsibility of all of us. I thought that was what Mrs Simons said in her speech. It is a responsibility of all of us, including in the public debate. I have already mentioned this in previous debates on this subject: we, you as a Chamber and I as a ruler, have a responsibility to show us a nuance. We have that responsibility to take. Fortunately, a lot of people take that responsibility too. For example, a large part of Dutch society is increasingly opposed to discrimination and racism. In the summer of 2020, many in the Netherlands asked for attention for awareness and combating racism and discrimination, following the demonstrations of the movement of Black Lives Matter. We have also had a number of good discussions as a cabinet about discrimination in Dutch society with groups that are often discriminated against. Also the recently launched initiative of Yalla! is a good example of Islamic and Jewish citizens joining forces to work together on a society in which all citizens can participate fully from their own identity. The cabinet therefore remains committed to a broad but also generic approach to discrimination, which also monitors Muslim discrimination, for example in the areas of labour market discrimination, housing market, education, internship discrimination or the criminal approach to discrimination. In the letter of 11 November last year, I indicated, also on behalf of the Minister for the Interior, what specific extra efforts I will make to combat Muslim discrimination. This concerns, for example, the willingness to report and attention to the stacked grounds on which discrimination takes place, as is often the case with Muslim women, but also the inclusive communication by the Empire, starting with my own ministry. The cabinet is firmly committed to equal opportunities in the labour market. You have a legislative proposal in the Chamber, which unfortunately is controversial, on the monitoring of equal opportunities in recruitment and selection in order to tackle discrimination in the labour market. We are also working on the further integration programme in the labour market, where we are mapping out the development of evidence-based interventions, demonstrably effective measures for equal opportunities in the labour market. Many of you have asked about the state of play of the national coordinator against racism and discrimination. The Minister of the Interior has sent a letter on this subject. The NCDR's focus field, the abbreviation for this, covers all grounds of discrimination, including religious discrimination. This national programme will be drawn up together with all actors. In a few moments I will have the specific information on when the Minister of the Interior informs your Chamber. I think there's an AO from your Chamber at the end of June with the Home Secretary about discrimination. That is also where this item is on the agenda. As a result of the Dijkhoff motion a few years ago in the General Political Reviews, I have also mapped out the population size and composition in the future. This also shows, of course, that we are moving towards a super diverse society. Respectfully dealing with equal opportunities for all therefore requires something from all of us, including towards the future. I very much liked Primo Levi's quote at the beginning of Mrs Belhaj's speech, because it is my view that we should see everyone as an individual and not reduce them to the members of a group, and that we should not appeal to anyone. Because in the layered reality of today's Netherlands there is enough room for a shared Dutchmanship. That was my introduction. A number of specific questions have been asked. Let me start with the question: what is the specific situation with regard to Muslim discrimination and what is the national coordinator going to do about it? There is a committee debate in your Chamber on 30 June on discrimination with the Minister for the Interior, who is a coordinating executive on this point. That's about the national coordinator. Then we can also discuss the action programme and perhaps also the question of who will be and what will be the task. Mr Azarkan asked: can Muslim discrimination be registered separately? That's a specific question. It is covered by discrimination on the basis of religion. Anti-discrimination provisions record discrimination by religion and divide into Muslim discrimination. The police don't have a separate registration on this point. It doesn't have any sub-grounds in it. So it's a layered image. Those are the more specific questions. The general line is therefore that a national coordinator will start soon and will actually address all the grounds for discrimination. Then there are a few specific questions about the far right. That is a legitimate concern, including of the cabinet. Many of you have asked questions about this. That was Mrs Leijten, Mrs Westerveld and I also thought Mrs Belhaj. Twice a year, the cabinet produces the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands through the Minister of Justice and Security. It has also mentioned the rise of extreme right-wing movements for a number of years. In previous debates on discrimination and polarisation, it has also been mentioned that we need to pay particular attention to this. The cabinet stands for an inclusive and socially stable society in which there is therefore no place for discrimination, hatred and intolerance. I share your concerns about systematically increasing differences between people, about stimulating polarisation. Along different paths is tried to give hands and feet to them. For example, municipalities that have questions about the extreme right are supported through knowledge sessions. This concerns questions such as: what can we learn from each other and what is the impact on society? In addition, I have a research in preparation that should provide more insight into radicalisation on the basis of extreme right-wing ideas. The aim of this research is to better target policies aimed at preventing radicalisation on the basis of extreme right-wing ideas to individuals who are radicalising, who we suspect are radicalising. A specific question was asked about Vizier on the Left. There have indeed been recent stickers and a number of people in the public debate have been attacked. That's been reported as well. This organisation is also mentioned in the Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands. The services have an eye for that, too. Let me be clear: intimidation and threat are, of course, unacceptable in the Netherlands and are not tolerated. If that is possible, if it is people who are known or who can be mapped out by the services, action will be taken. Apart from that and for a number of years now, Mr Grapperhaus, in the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, together with the NCTV, has paid special attention to this in the block of the extreme right and also in the broader integration and coexistence agenda, this is an important point of attention to the cabinet. Mrs Leijten had a very correct comment and a question about the government which should set a good example in its own systems. And indeed, the Tax Office in the childcare allowance is a wrong example. We have also taken a number of actions in the cabinet's response to 'Unknown injustice'. I don't know what the exact state of affairs at the IRS is. For that, you need to be with Mr Van Huffelen. I think you've done the same recently. What I have done is that we will also check the systems for the UWV and for the SVB. This has also been included in the cabinet response. This concerns, in particular, nationality in the UWV system and other implementing organisations under my responsibility. I would like to report on this in the state of play. There is systematic mapping of whether, for example, nationality in those files, in those signalling systems, is a factor on which checks are carried out. For the summer, this report is sent to the Chamber, at the State of execution. Again, we are also doing this widely for all major executives of the Empire such as the SVB, DUO and the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u227	It is more than right that attention has been paid to this. There is also an approved motion for a resolution by Mr Van Dijk/Leijten on this. But, of course, there is more discrimination than just the search grounds nationality. What also affects me in the supplement scandal is that it also concerns income, family size and the composition of a family. It is known, for example, that the people with the lowest incomes and the highest fees are deliberately targeted and have been made a frauder under the heading "hot/hor." "Horror," we call it. I do not rule out the fact that this has been used or snuck into other execution services; perhaps never was the intention, but it was the risk selection. So I would like to thank the Minister for coming back on this, but make it very clear that it is wider than nationality. Of this, the government has said "we ban it, because it is not relevant to decision-making," but income is very often not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u228	Agreed. I agree with Mrs Leijten. It is indeed going wider in the discussion. I am now, of course, Minister and Secretary of State, but my predecessors, first Mrs Van Ark and then Mr Van 't Wout, have also had the discussion about SyRI, for example. That is where that discussion has emerged and we have put it off in the wake of a lawsuit. I agree with Mrs Leijten. This is a subject that has also been discussed in our conversations at the Catshuis following the Black Lives Matter protests: that there are, so to speak, hidden in the systems, unintentionally......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We're gonna map that. Again, for SVB and UWV, for which I am responsible, I report in the state of execution on the state of play and also on what we have done since January, since the report Unfamiliar injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u229	I have also put forward a motion for a wide-ranging review a number of times. I agree with Mr Leijten that there are other ways of determining and applying selection on actual grounds. I would like to inform the Minister that I have been informed that, for example, people who made a donation to a mosque were being taken out. They'll be on a list. I know that's true. Probably from that investigation. Of course, we also know the black list, which contains a striking number of people with a migrant origin. Those people are freaking out right now. There are 60,000 people who have been informed, but we are still waiting for about 200,000 people. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that these subtle exclusion mechanisms are included in that research.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u230	Yeah, once. We've reported that, too. It does indeed begin very simply, for example with nationality where this is relevant for some benefits. Two years ago, for example, we had a discussion in this Chamber about the export of WW benefits to Poland. There too there is discussion about nationality being registered. But I agree with Mr Azarkan and with Mrs Leijten. It often goes further in the systems and we need to systematically map that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u231	Supplementary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u232	I have often heard that argument, including from colleagues from D66. Look, it's good that we're dealing with fraud, but seriously, when the people I've been talking to were sitting here, there was no Pole. They were all just Dutch, often with a migrant arrival...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u233	Mr. Azarkan, don't get me wrong. I don't mean to trivialize it at all. I don't mean at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u234	But we have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u235	One at a time. That's the nice thing about this room; I'm giving the floor. Mr. Azarkan, please finish your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u236	Yes. My point is that I understand that we have to determine whether someone is eligible for legislation. I understand that, but everything else that is included... From 2014 we are not allowed to register nationality. It did happen, didn't it? That's what the AP established. Then it was indeed no longer allowed. When his officials started keeping track of it in free fields. So it happens in different ways. Of course, we need to combat fraud, but that cannot act as a cover, by which we make improper distinctions between different citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u237	That is not what I was meant to say. In this case, I was talking about the second nationality that was registered, but apart from that: I do not want to have that discussion, because that debate has been extended with the Secretary of State for Finance, and rightly so. It was a question of telling me why such a registration might have been created in such a system, for a specific reason, which may have been unintendedly discriminatory in the future. Maybe it was meant to be; that can also be the conclusion. That's all I wanted to say, Mr. Azarkan. We're going to map that neatly and systematically. I still have a few answers to Mrs Becker's questions. They're not necessarily in a cluster, they're loose. She first asked if I could explain on the basis of which frameworks I grant subsidies when it comes to the resilience of Muslims and the so-called interreligious dialogue. For example, we focus on the interreligious dialogue through the bridge building project of the OJCM; that is the consultation of Jews, Christians and Muslims. This is an organisation that promotes dialogue between representatives of different religions. Yalla! is a recent social initiative of Jews and Muslims, who promote this dialogue together and also on their own feet and without the support of the Empire. Another topic that we are subsidising is informal education. I also indicated this in a debate on the POCOB, i.e. on the cabinet response to the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Foreign Financing. It is about dealing with informal training. There are now a number of projects and pilots in progress, in which, through municipal initiatives, I say that in Rotterdam and Tilburg, at least two are going on, trying to create alternative informal training. This is aimed at informal training in Arabic language, but also in culture, and should actually be an alternative to more extremist providers. We are now running pilots in Rotterdam, Tilburg and in another municipality, which I do not have ready right now. The aim is to put in place an alternative so that people there can take less extremist lessons, rather than well organized, but some more extremist organisations that also have money and organizational power. That is what the subsidies are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u238	This raises a question for Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u239	Thanks for the answer. I have two questions about that. Is the Minister prepared to include this kind of specific subsidy in the forthcoming budget and also in the annual report? We often see post-integration subsidies, but I have not seen all these things in the budget. I actually want to be able to test them for their effectiveness and whether they are not countering integration, because we do not want that as a Chamber either. But I don't have any insight into that right now. Is the Minister prepared to inform the Chamber beforehand at the level of organisations or of certain projects, and to inform the Chamber of the results every year afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u240	I was very inclined to go, because I do find... I would like to give you that list of subsidies to certain foundations. I've done that before, I think, two years ago. What I find more complicated is to map the results, without a policy review or without a fixed time when we look at the effectiveness of policies. But I'd like to make it clear to you. Then I'll be back at my old hobby, the rich budget. I thought that this is also on www.rijkbouw.nl, if you click on all the attachments. But we're gonna find out for you. If that is not the case, we will send it to you for budgetary treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u241	I am very happy with that commitment and I am also going to do my own homework, if I could have found all these foundations on richbouw.nl. If not, I can refer this back to the Minister in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u242	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I said "I thought," huh? "I thought."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u243	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Very good. Then the Minister says: we are subsidising a number of municipal initiatives. That, if I understand him correctly, there are weekend schools that offer Arabic lessons and that is actually facilitated by tax money, because the AIVD is concerned about what is being done in this area by private organisations. Isn't that a bit of a bad reflex? Shouldn't you just put those initiatives you're worried about under surveillance instead of offering Arabic lessons as a government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u244	We've discussed this with your room before. Also in the DTN and in the reports of the NCTV it has become clear that we are concerned about certain extremist drivers who are well organized with money offering certain informal training that can be Arabic lessons or Koran lessons in which extremist ideas are promoted. We all think that's undesirable. That's unwanted behavior we all want to condemn. The parents also indicate: we would like our children to come into contact with Arabic culture or language. We are now experimenting with pilots and see if you can offer an alternative offer, so to speak, of an extremist variant that prevents problematic behavior from being taught. There are also a number of mayors we regularly consult with, who say: you should do it mainly in schools. As a result, it would automatically be subject to educational supervision. This also fits within the citizenship mission and within a certain article in the Education Act that I do not know by heart. Those are variants that we are mapping now, precisely in order to be able to give an answer to the extremist providers, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u245	I hear what the Minister says, but I'm not convinced. He doesn't actually answer the question: why don't you just supervise those extremist organizations and don't close them when you see extremist things happening? This Minister said earlier: I am not yet ready to supervise this kind of informal education. Then he will allow it to exist and also use taxpayers' money to facilitate Arab lessons. I'd say you've got that task force; you're gonna start talking to those weekend schools, you're gonna monitor that, you're gonna shut them down if it doesn't work. In doing so, you will ensure that the private initiative remains where it should be. As far as I am concerned, it is not a government task to facilitate Arab lessons in the Netherlands. I don't think the government does that with other languages either. People can organize that in private. But now that extremists are active in that, the cabinet says: well, then we're going to offer it ourselves. But in the meantime, we're gonna let those extremists go behind the front door. Can the Minister promise me that this was my other question, and that the cabinet will also ensure that these extremist organizations no longer exist? Then I'll come back later on to the idea that I have to stop facilitating those Arabic lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u246	To be honest, I am a little confused, because we have talked about this extensively, including the integration element of the budget. At that time I also mentioned the examples of Tilburg and Rotterdam. At that time we also mentioned the fear of extremist organisations offering themselves. This is precisely a way to map out whether this can help. That's why we do such a pilot. Broader is the discussion as to whether it should not take shape in mainstream education. That is another discussion, which is also being held with Mr Slob. With regard to informal training and monitoring, you adopted five motions in the debate on POCOB. That's what we're working on right now. Mrs Van Toorenburg, among others, then tabled a motion on more through the VWS corner. You've filed a motion on the education inspection corner. We are now mapping them with several officials from different departments, to inform your Chamber after the summer about how we could shape that. I have already indicated at that time that it is very complicated to achieve this, because it is about freedom of association, freedom of religion and that sort of thing. But we are mapping that out nicely, also through a creative way, such as the VWS route, which Mrs Van Toorenburg has proposed. But it is true: we are trying to use taxpayers' money to look at relatively small amounts of money to see if you can generate an alternative offer, precisely to cut off the card from extremist providers. Again, this is something that mayors often ask us for. They say: yes, we are really worried about this in the neighbourhoods of our cities; help us to shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u247	I think the Minister answers half the questions I had...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u248	I can't hear you right, Mr. Heerma, so I'm not sure the microphone is working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u249	Is that gonna be okay? I'm just gonna start over. I have a question about the effect that the Minister has just promised on the motions that have been tabled on tackling schools where there is genuinely radicalisation and against participation in Dutch society informal education. Do we get it in summer or after summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u250	After the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u251	On the other part of Mrs Becker's questions, I would like to take a different tone. There are a lot of concerns, especially among groups that are trying to counter radicalisation, about that free offer from, for example, salafistic corner of Qur'an lessons and language lessons that are getting increasingly radical. Then such a subsidy can indeed help, but I would like to return to Mrs Becker's first question. It is important, however, that we map out the fact that such an initiative, such a pilot, actually has positive results. In what way will the Minister inform the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u252	I don't know the exact details. But this is really flying as a pilot, just to learn from it. The time is limited. We're gonna monitor that and see what the effect is. I believe that the pilots in Rotterdam and Tilburg have been running for about 1.5 years now. In the second period, I can give you a concrete indication of the evaluation we are expecting. Mr Heerma is satisfied with that, I see. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u253	Before you continue, Mrs Belhaj has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u254	At the risk of a few colleagues not liking me, of course, I cannot remember that this is a Muslim debate. So all that's related to Muslims, whether they're really wrong Muslims, suppressing or circumcising their wives, or Koran lessons... Maybe it's a bit of a novelty, but I thought we'd be talking about Muslim discrimination. Discrimination against Muslims. So it is not meant to be unkind, but I do notice that the debate is now on very different subjects. I don't really know what you can do with that. I just wanted to share that. That's okay, as a parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u255	I answer questions I have asked. That's all I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u256	I don't think it was a question for you either. But it does evoke some reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u257	As an applicant for this debate, I have a point of order. I just spent the last 20 minutes in a turd. It is about anti-Islam sentiments and their consequences for society, weekend schools, women's circumcision, Arab lessons, extremism, taqqiya, the Jewish-Christian tradition, restoring the hymen, radicalisation, jihad, pilots that need to be monitored enormously, while at VWS we flicker away 5 billion and don't even have the receipts. Mr President, what are we doing? The radical Islam. I've been keeping track of it for a while. Extremistic blowers. This debate is about... Can we talk about that once, Mr. Chairman? It has been going on for five years since I was in the Chamber for every debate on the same subjects. I've seen the hymen pass a hundred times. That could help you get a day job. It's always about the negative side, about putting Muslims away as hostile, as if they weren't participating in society. Can it be once, once, about the fact that Muslims also suffer from how politicians talk about them, and about how we can fight that? That's what this debate was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u258	I think you've been tarred for more than 20 minutes when I hear the words you quoted. More reactions? Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u259	I would ask Mr Azarkan to put this a little less polarising. From the input of the VVD, I spent the first half on the fact that we find it terrible that more than half of the Muslims in the Netherlands feel discriminated against. I have mentioned a number of initiatives taken by this cabinet and, for example, Mr Azarkan himself's initiative to discuss security in a round table with mosques. I said that we should continue with all the other initiatives that we can take to record, for example, the background to discrimination. That's what the first half of my contribution was about. But the second half of my contribution was about the fact that if we want to tackle discrimination, we also need to look at that very small group in the Muslim community that discriminates, which can also contribute to anti-Islamic sentiments and the feeling that Muslims in this country do not feel free to make their own choices. Now I have the following problem: when I raise this in all the other debates, Mr Azarkan always comes forward and says that I am dealing with Muslim bashing. I think that I should also mention this here in this debate, because this polarisation is not helping and because I want Mr Azarkan on my side. Then he says: hymen repair, what are we talking about? You're gonna have to go through it. Terrible. That is also a form of discrimination and oppression. If we are able to eliminate such elements, we have won a very strong battle for all those Muslims who want to live in freedom. So I think that we should involve that in this debate and that Mr Azarkan should not wave about it, as if that were not relevant for today. It is indeed relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u260	No, Mr. Azarkan. I'm not going to repeat the first-term debate. We're in the government's first term now. You made a point, Mrs Becker made a point and Mrs Belhaj made a point. A point of order for Mr. Azarkan. But again, we're not gonna redo the first term. In that you have had every opportunity to interrupt each other. We have arrived at Mr. Koolmees' contribution, but first the point of order of Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u261	Personal fact. A point of order. I am being accused here of things that are simply not true and I want that corrected. We talk about everything in this house 364 days a year, and that's because Mrs Becker does.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u262	No, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u263	No, no. A total of 364 days, but that is not what this debate is about. This debate is about anti-Islam sentiments. Can we just talk about that once without bringing up everything that's wrong with Muslims? And believe me, there's still a lot to be won by Muslims. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u264	Your call is clear. In this house, everyone has the freedom to express their opinion on the topics that lie ahead. Everyone does. This means that we can now listen to the Minister's contribution. Proceed, Mr. Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u265	And the Minister answers the questions put to him by the Chamber. I now come to Mrs Becker's question on the ban on the Grey Wolves. The Minister for Justice and Security, Mr Grapperhaus, stated in his letter of 6 May that the Grey Wolves, an ultra-nationalist and extreme-right movement, also manifest themselves in the Netherlands. Since there is scope in Dutch society for a wide variety of reflections, views, value patterns and lifestyles, the ideas of the Grey Wolves and associated symbols are not prohibited. That is what the Minister of JenV stated in his letter. A prohibition is not considered proportionate given the limited extent to which incidents of violence occur. It is also not feasible, because the Grey Wolves as such are not a legal entity. It is not a foundation in a manner of speaking and therefore it is difficult to effect. Again, that's in the letter of May 6th. You referred to questions that have been asked. We couldn't find them. Have they been sent to the Minister of JenV? To me, too? I haven't been able to find it. Then something might go wrong with the committee, because I really haven't seen them. Maybe you should take a look at where they are. Mr Azarkan also referred to Mrs Becker's question on hymen repair operations. The Secretary of State of VWS, Mr Blokhuis, and the Minister for Legal Protection, Mr Dekker, informed your Chamber on 18 March this year about the implementation of the Action Agenda Harmful Practices. This also implements Mr Van Wijngaarden's motion and Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion. I think it was him at the time that asked the government to map out and examine whether there would still be hymen repair operations on 1 March 2021 and, if that is the case, to start an exploration to see if there could be a legal ban. The Secretary of State for VWS commissioned an investigation by AEF to find out whether this is still happening. As a result, he noted that the number of recovery operations had fallen, but that they were still being carried out. In view of your Chamber's unanimous request, a cabinet is going to carry out a reconnaissance to identify the possibilities for a legal ban on those recovery operations. The decision on this will, of course, require a debate between probably a next cabinet and your Chamber, given our missionary status, but that exploration is now being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u266	Mrs. Becker, last but not least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u267	A very short question. Can we then share this exploration with the Chamber in the relatively short term, so that we hope that it will be possible to involve the parties in a formation in the short term? Because it's a file that's been running for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u268	I will pass on this request to my colleagues, including Mrs Becker's urgency, to Mr Blokhuis and Mr Dekker, who are shaping this agenda for action. I'll take that back, if that's all right with you. I do not know at all what the state of affairs is there, but I am taking the request back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u269	I appreciate the Minister taking this back. Can he at least promise that we will still be informed as to whether, and if so, at what point will colleagues be able to inform the Chamber when the reconnaissance will take place? That would be nice, even for our own planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u270	Yeah, I'd like to give you my word on that. I would be happy to inform colleagues and ask them to send a note to the Chamber on this matter. For the sake of completeness I say that the third municipality is Huizen. So it's Rotterdam, Tilburg and Huizen. That is where the pilots on informal training take place. Mrs Westerveld rightly called for attention to be paid to the issues of labour market discrimination and internship discrimination. I have already said a few things about this in my introduction, for example about the further integration project in the labour market. I also mentioned the approach to labour market discrimination in recruitment and selection by intermediaries, e.g. temporary employment agencies. So there is a bill in your Chamber, which has unfortunately been declared controversial. Hopefully it can be handled after formation. And, of course, in recent years we have allocated extra money to the inspection SZW. There has also been an additional task, namely to combat labour market discrimination. From my point of view, I say that EUR 3 million has been released for this particular task. I think that's really a step forward. Mrs Westerveld also asked a question about internship discrimination. What does the campaign #KIESME look like? That campaign was launched in November 2020. Indeed, this calls for more attention to be paid to internship discrimination. On the platform kiesmij.nl, students, schools and employers can go for help in combating and preventing discrimination. It is currently being examined, in cooperation with the organisations concerned, how the campaign can be continued. These organisations include the SBB, the MBO Council, the JOB, the College of Human Rights, Stichting School & Security, SMB-Netherlands, VNO-NCW and the trade unions. So this is an important subject that we will continue with. Finally, I would like to say that a motion was adopted by Mr Van den Berge and Mr Van den Hul to set up a team of experts and experience experts, particularly with regard to MBO institutions. The elaboration of this motion is aligned with ongoing initiatives, such as the Equal Opportunities Knowledge Point, Diversity in Inclusion. This is done again in consultation with the field of education. For the summer, so in a month's time, the Chamber will be informed about the outcome of this motion. Finally, I have a few specific questions from Mrs Van der Plas on Divers & Including. How's the program coming? In 2018, the Scientific Council for Government Policy in the exploration "The New Diversity" drew attention to the increased diversity in the Netherlands and also to the societal challenge in addition to integration. In the Divers & Including programme, which VNG and the Ministry of Social Affairs did from 2019 until the end of 2020, this new diversity has been brought to the attention of local administrators. In addition to focusing on traditional integration issues, such as language learning, attention has also been paid to the question of how to "live together" in this new diversity. We have also seen in this WRR report that people feel unheimlich in their own neighborhood and that they have less connection, have less contact with people in their own neighborhood. That's what we're worried about. We're in touch with drivers about that. We exchanged examples, had knowledge sessions and exchanged all kinds of programmes and projects to see how you could do that. So that's finished by the end of 2020. Mrs van der Plas also asked more specifically: what is the state of play on the VIA programme and the approach to labour market discrimination? I have actually said the same thing to Mrs Westerveld. The programme VIA is running as planned. Most pilots will be completed this year, and will also provide real lessons for a more effective approach to labour market discrimination. How do we ensure that people can participate in the labour market? With twenty national parties in the Work and Integration Task Force, we are developing a work agenda to turn these lessons into good examples that can be applied in practice to give people a better chance of getting a job or taking part in the labour market. So that's what we're rolling out right now, just like the plan was.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u272	Mr. President, you know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u273	Mrs Simons has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u274	Sorry, I have one more question to answer, namely from Mr Eerdmans. That question was actually answered in an interrupting debate with Mrs Simons. In the letter of early January, I gave a definition of Islamophobia. Mrs Simons just read that definition. That is also mentioned in that study. It is indeed about extreme fears that have no basis in real reality. That's what the report's about. That's the definition. Then you can have a semantic discussion about whether that is a good definition, but that doesn't seem to make much sense. The report was about that. And now I see that it is far too common in the Netherlands. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u275	I'm really glad we took the time to take that with us. I welcome the Minister's answers, but I am not entirely happy. I am very pleased that the Minister has just said that he agrees with me that we here as representatives of the people have an important responsibility in removing anti-Islam sentiments and reducing racism and discrimination in our society. Still, I'm looking for something stronger. It cannot be that a week ago we had a Member of Parliament who made her maiden speech and then had to hear from another Member of Parliament on Twitter: "Get lost! In the Dutch Parliament, people like her should not be heard, because she wears a headscarf. Get rid of it!" This isn't just about a social discussion. It's about the day-to-day security in which people here in the Chamber, right here in this building, have to do their job. I am really looking for a somewhat firmer statement by the Minister on how we take responsibility for ensuring the safety of everyone who works here, lives in this country, is completely normal, stands up every morning and goes to work, goes to school, seeks an internship and so on, and so on. I need something more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u276	Mrs Simons is asking a difficult question, because this is actually about the debate in your Chamber, between the groups in your Chamber. Ten years of experience in The Hague has taught me that it is never convenient for the cabinet to review the Chamber. In other words, I really think this is a matter for your Chamber itself, for the Bureau or for the discussion that is taking place there. Apart from that, I agree in general that we must limit exclusion, polarisation and discrimination. That is why, in my introduction, I also called for a good example to be set, to take responsibility and to be nuanced on these issues. I've done that before. I often find these discussions degenerate. Mr Heerma mentioned a "feast of recognition." Well, I don't think it's a party of recognition anymore. I think it's a chain of polarization moments that we all can't get anywhere near. So I agree with your line, but I do not think that I should judge your Chamber on the way in which you debate each other. That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u277	I understand that answer. I also understand that it is a dilemma and a difficult question for the Minister. At the same time, the Minister has just told us what the Cabinet is doing to ensure in the country, outside this building, that we can say goodbye to that kind of mischief, I say very neatly, very carefully. Taking into account the dilemma, I wonder if there are perhaps ways of taking the lead in that discussion in Mr Koolmees's mind. Because the cabinet is taking the lead in the debate on the social debate in our country. The same would perhaps be... And I speak entirely for my turn and absolutely not with any permission on behalf of the lady I have just described, but I am concerned about how this MP should do her work here. What is the House's role as a model on all kinds of projects financed by our taxpayers' money if we cannot in any way act on the same speed with regard to the safety of the people here, in this building, who have been elected as representatives of the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u278	I'm gonna go pull some things apart if that's okay with you. That's right, there are 150 of you who were elected to represent the people. You have been given a mandate by the electorate to give your opinion here, to hold the debate on different visions, principles and viewpoints and to address each other accordingly. Once again, I have been a Member of Parliament for seven and a half years myself, and I think it is very important that this debate should take place and that it should be debated at the sharpest possible level. But you can't ask me to review the Chamber at this point. Apart from that, I think you are right when it comes to setting an example, taking the lead and calling it as a driver against polarisation and against the pursuit of extremist views. I've tried that on several files over the years. This often requires some reluctance on my part not to actively interfere in the debate, but I must make sure that no oil is thrown on the fire and not the extremes are put down, but perhaps try to find the bridge between these extremes to look a little at the future and leave the polarisation behind us. That's not easy. Think of the discussion about Zwarte Piet in recent years in municipalities. Think about the discussion about extremism. That is just what Mr Azarkan and Mrs Becker were talking about. Well, then, you know, it's a lot of times when you're in the pan. I consider it my duty as a director to counter that polarization and try to address the great silent majority, who often has moderate views and wants to move forward together in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u279	Last but not least, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u280	The answer may also come to me outside this Chamber, but I would ask you, with your experience as a Member of Parliament and as a driver, to give us some tips on how we can do that. Because of course it's very difficult when you have to propagate outside that we all have to be nicer to each other and respect each other, when that just doesn't happen here. So I hear the dilemma that the Minister is expressing, and I will also address myself to the Presidium. Perhaps they also have tips; they can also come to me outside this Chamber. But I am very much looking for a way in which we can indeed have the sharp debate here, with respect for each other and our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u281	My experience is that when there is a debate, it does not help to prevent polarisation. But that's a... Never mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u282	That is the tip of the day of Minister Koolmees. Mrs. Leijten, you're next on my... No, Mrs. Van der Plas first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u283	Yes, thank you. Otherwise, we have to go back a long way to Mr Koolmees' answer to my question on Divers & Including. I understood from Mr Koolmees that it was all completed by the end of 2020, but I was wondering if there were any results. Has there come out anything measurable that we can go on with?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u284	A website with a portfolio with good examples has been created online. I can send you the link. That's what we're gonna do. Finally, Mrs Van der Plas, I recall that you had another question about the citizenship assignment at the Ministry of Education and Science. That bill has been passed in the Lower House and is under consideration in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u285	In my opinion, you should not ask a former chamber member, who is now a minister and sometimes, emotionally, let something slip into a Council of Ministers, for tips. That's not meant to be a sneer, but that was the feeling that occurred to me. Because we MPs do more in this Chamber than just trying to get in the picture. Anyway, so does Mr Koolmees. That has been another debate. I asked a very specific question. Do we have a far right enough picture? And do the security services and the police have a keen eye on this and attention to it? I asked because, in Mrs Sterckenburg's book, 'But you can't say that', we do see the analysis that doesn't do enough. I've asked for a response to that. I'd still like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u286	My image is... But to be honest, I find it complicated to do that out of my mind, because it is, of course, at the heart of the matter, the Minister for Justice and Security and the NCTV. Twice a year, the Threat Statue of Terrorism Netherlands appears, which also pays special attention to the extreme right and its development in the Netherlands. By the way, I have just received information that 18 May this year the Minister for Justice and Security answered parliamentary questions about Vizier on the Left, that is to say about the specific point that Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Leijten asked about. Earlier in integration debates, your Chamber has also called for more attention to be paid to the emergence of extreme right-wing groups. So: yes, we are trying to get a picture of them. That is what the services do, of course the AIVD but also the NCTV. You will receive an update of the state of play twice a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u287	I have, of course, seen the answers to those parliamentary questions. I continue to find it disappointing that many of these questions come with difficult answers, even when it comes to accessing the Chamber of Commerce. There have been motions adopted from D66, from the VVD, there have been initiatives from the Chamber: stop that now, people are affected by that. It is still said that we do not make statements about individual matters. We simply know that in this case, the scientists targeted by Vizier on the Left are "dodging," which is also known as "doping" coming from there. But back to the police and back to that signal. One of the things that really hurt me is that people who are afraid to go to the mosque also say: should things really go wrong in the Netherlands once, like in Christchurch and elsewhere, before we see that this is a big problem? We all say here in the Chamber "it's not allowed, it won't; you don't come to other people's property," but is that enough in the picture? I understand very well that the Minister for Integration finds it difficult to answer that question now. The general answer is that it is reported twice a year. But would he perhaps want to respond to that book together with his colleague on Justice and Security, but you can't say that? I think there are very wise analyses in this, which can also help us move things forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u288	I don't know. I didn't read the book myself. It is not my portfolio, but I would like to take this request back to my colleagues in the cabinet to ask how they view it. I will inform Mrs Leijten and your Chamber about this. Just one more specific answer about Vizier on the Left. It is indeed intimidating and it is also cross-standard. People's privacy is being violated. The D.A.'s also investigating whether this is a criminal offence, whether or not there's any way to prosecute. You can see that when these kinds of expressions take place, but more generally, I find it difficult to answer the question whether we have enough picture of this. One of the characteristics of hidden organisations is, of course, that they operate in the shadows, making it difficult to find out exactly what they are doing and what they are doing. But I will take this request back to the colleague of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u289	Mrs Leijten, last but not least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u290	I assume that we will get an answer to that, that we can just take that up and that I do not have to make any motions about it, but that is how I have heard the Minister. When it comes to monitoring these extreme right-wing groups, we have to say that we were not able to follow them to Belgium last night. But you may have missed that news.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u291	I was working on the support packages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u292	In any case, we say that this is the border and this is across the border. I have already indicated that I found it difficult to stand in an integration debate, when you are actually talking about: here is the border and when you cross the border, you cross the border. In an integration debate, you would think that you should grow a little towards each other, while anti-islam sentiments manifest itself in a violent form. I do not think it would be good if we did not dare to establish this with each other and dare to name it, apart from the fact that there are extremes who may be feeding. But that should never be an ID for that. I think it would be a good idea for us to say this with each other in this debate. I know that this is not meant by other Members, but it is suggested that it is a bit of their own fault. But it is not the fault of the believer who goes to the mosque in this case, or of another believer who goes to the synagogue. People can never charge for that. It's just got to be safe. I hope that the Minister wishes to underline this once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u293	I very much and wholeheartedly agree with that. I would like to underline that. It is not for nothing that I find the quote by Primo Levi, which Mrs Belhaj quoted, a very beautiful and appropriate quote in this context. It's about the individual. That must be addressed on his own behaviour and not as a member of a group, because that often creates very big problems. So I very much agree with that. My experience in this debate is that, fortunately, this is often also widely shared in your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u294	Do I understand that this has brought you to the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u295	I hope so. I hope I have answered your questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u296	We thought so, but Mrs Westerveld still wants to stick to a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u297	I have a very practical question. I hope the Minister has the answer to that. In his reply, the Minister cited the Further Integration Programme in the Labour Market. That project has been going on for a number of years. We were informed about this again last November. That letter says that the pilots run until the next summer. Is that programme going to stop, or is it going to continue? That's what I was wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u298	What's the point? We've done about eight pilots. Some of them have proved successful. We have learned from that too what does work and what does not work. A number of pilots have not been so successful. That's just based on an evidence-based approach. It's about scientific research into what does and what doesn't work. We are now going to roll out the good examples across the country. That is why we are working with 20 national parties in the Work and Integration Task Force to bring these good examples to the attention of other municipalities and other labour market regions, to learn from them. We hope that these good examples can also be applied elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u299	After the summer the pilots are completed and then we are informed a little bit more in front of my picture. This means that the good examples from this programme will then be rolled out further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u300	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u301	Then we have arrived at the end of the first term on the part of the government. We shall proceed smoothly to the second term of office. This means that Mr Azarkan of DENK may speak again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. I've got a couple of motions, so I'm gonna start soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government rightly has an approach to tackling anti-Semitism;]] [[noting that Muslim hatred is a growing and growing problem within our society and hurts many Dutch people;]] [[calls on the government, by analogy with the anti-Semitism approach, to come up with a plan of action to combat Muslim hatred in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to continue to ensure that human rights and anti-discrimination, as well as the fight against Muslim hatred and anti-Semitism, are a recognizable and important part of the new core objectives of primary and secondary education and that it is widely and firmly anchored in education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to recognise Muslim hatred or discrimination as a specific form of discrimination and racism, as is the case with anti-Semitism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the police have stopped recording Muslim discrimination separately since 2019;]] [[Whereas, according to the most recent studies, Muslim discrimination is more than twice as common as any other form of discrimination based on religion;]] [[Whereas the 2021 Muslim Discrimination Monitor recommends that Muslim discrimination be recorded separately;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Muslim discrimination is once again included separately in police records,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-240]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-241]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-242]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-243]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u303	And then there's my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that an independent Human Rights Council has been set up in the Austrian Graz to verify that political parties respect human rights during election campaigns;]] [[Whereas this has led to a significant reduction in hate speech during election campaigns;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the National Coordinator to monitor election campaigns and programmes to ensure respect for human rights as a task for the anti-discrimination coordinator to be appointed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-244]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u304	Five.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u305	If you give them to the messenger, we can spread them among the members. I'm looking at Mrs. Belhaj. It wishes to make use of its second term. The Minister had, moreover, counted the number of motions, it seems to me. Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u306	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answer. I have two reflections. I'm a progressive liberal. I will allow any debate to take place, and I will allow any problem to be mentioned, as long as there is a high degree of care in it. This is particularly true in these areas. I have heard tonight people who establish a relationship between people who fear Islam, i.e. a kind of phobia, with the point that that fear can eventually lead to Islam discrimination. This can be a legitimacy for right-wing extremists, while reports say that the lack of contact with Muslims can lead to alienation. I have also heard a lot about Islam-related problems or, at least, I call them much more "cultural problems." This is my first debate on this subject. We talked today about Islam discrimination. It's got to be fought hard. We're gonna need a lot of time for that. But when it comes to bullshit that has to be addressed in another way, quite rightly, at another time, such as excesses from Islam, oppression of women and circumcision of women, I am at the forefront of fighting it. But mixing those two things with each other really doesn't make any sense, really doesn't make any sense. Nor can I imagine that other forms of discrimination are in your head to include other aspects. I'm sorry, I'm really sad about that. But the good news is that this was my first debate on this subject, so we still have plenty of opportunities to address problems properly and also to look for solutions. As far as I am concerned, the approach will always be to make sure that we have a good time in the Netherlands, that we are a little bit more comfortable and that we collectively decide not to accept any form of discrimination in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u307	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. You were almost exactly within the time frame. I'm looking at Mr. De Graaf. He also wishes to make use of his second term. You have a minute, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u308	I'll spend it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Institutionalized discrimination and racism, institutionalized 'femicism', institutionalized anti-gay violence; we can all find it in Islam. That may be appointed, and that may be said, even during this debate. Those are facts. That is what is present in the Netherlands, but if there is criticism of institutionalized racism, discrimination and so on, of Islam, is that allowed? After this debate, I still believe that this is permitted, and I still believe that I will continue to argue that there should be such criticism, because if there is one thing that is not allowed from and within Islam, it is critical of Islam. We call that "islamophobia," but when we look at for example Koran 8, verse 60, we see that "fear of Islam is dedicated to every Muslim." So Islamophobia is an order from the Qur'an. I cannot make the summary of this debate any more difficult, and everyone can draw their own conclusions from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u309	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. Mrs. Becker has waived her second term. I call Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is no legal definition of "Muslim hatred" or "Islamophobia" and the legal definition of "discrimination" does not reflect the structural nature of Muslim hatred;]] [[whereas anti-discrimination legislation and criminal law are therefore inadequate in the fight against discrimination;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the Muslim communities in the Netherlands, to adopt a legal definition concerning the structural nature of these forms of repression;]] [[calls on the Government to come to the Chamber with a proposal to incorporate this legal definition into anti-discrimination legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands has many organisations that spread racist ideas against Muslims and exchange these ideas;]] [[whereas this is contrary to Article 1 of our Constitution;]] [[Whereas the principle of equivalence is the foundation of a functioning democracy and is therefore anti-democratic against Muslims;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of establishing a framework for banning and disbanding such organisations which disseminate and exchange racist ideas against Muslims,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Muslim hatred also occurs in public authorities;]] [[noting that the police is a public authority;]] [[having noted that there have been frequent racist incidents in the police;]] [[noting that Muslim hatred should not remain unanswered among public authorities and calls for measures to be taken to combat Islamic hatred;]] [[calls on the government to forward to the police leadership that ethnic profiling by police officers should lead to dismissal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-245]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-246]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-247]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u311	Mr President, I have three further motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u312	It can't be. You filed three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u313	I wanted to ask you a question and you are actually answering before I have asked the question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u314	Well, you have one minute's speaking time for your second term. You've filed three motions. You're announcing three more. Then I say no, because your speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u315	And I wanted to ask you a question, Mr President, but then you answered before I asked the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u316	Yeah, that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u317	May I still ask the question, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u318	Ask the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u319	Can I also file motions I haven't read?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u320	No, no. Those are the rules of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u321	That was the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u322	Thank you very much. If you'd like to share the three motions with the messengers, we'll make sure everyone gets a copy of them. I'm looking at Mrs. Leijten. She too wishes to make use of her speaking time in the second term, so I give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u323	Mr. Chairman. The SP is a party that will always express religious criticism when faith is a reason to make people unfree. That's how the whole Chamber knows us too, but at the moment when people can't safely participate in our society for their faith, we cross a line. That is what the debate was about today. It is not common to say that certain people should not be free to have or exercise their faith, or to go to a mosque, because you have to close it, or to read a book, because you have to burn it or ban it. That is discrimination, and it happens regularly in this Chamber. Over the line is over the line. And that is also the case in this debate. I just wanted to mark that for a while. Furthermore, I have noted that some fine films have been made on these heated sides of this debate, which has led to the content of what has happened here in the Chamber playing with a totally separate dynamic in the social debate. That's exactly what I meant in my first term. It is actually no longer listening to each other, no longer having the debate with each other, but simply sending.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u324	Then you've seen more than I have, but I'm not looking forward to it, so to speak. Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I'm looking at Mr. Ceder. He does not wish to use his second term. Then I'll look at Mrs. Van der Plas. The same goes for her. Mr. Eerdmans does. One minute, Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. Following Mrs Belhaj, who is not here today, I also see this debate as a kind of work in progress, because we may not be able to get that far. My sincere intention was to talk about anti-Islam sentiments in society, not about Muslim discrimination or Muslim victimization. I didn't see it that way on the announcement and I didn't prepare for it either. I think we'll talk about that. JA21 will be heard, also on 30 June, in the AO on discrimination. The core for us was that we cannot and will not deny that in parts of the world people cannot be free, because Islam dominates and encourages unfreedom. That could be because you're gay because you're a woman. That was my point to the Minister. Does the Minister understand that these elements are taken into account in people's concerns about Islam? So we are not talking about Muslims or individuals, but about Islam as a faith. Do you understand that, do you see that and can it be acknowledged that this can also be perceived as threatening? I'll make up my mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u326	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Mr. Heerma renounces his second term. Mrs Westerveld is then invited to share her contribution with us in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that it was an interesting debate, I am also going home with a somewhat unsatisfactory feeling and that will apply to more of us. We know that discrimination is a major problem at school, the labour market, the housing market, and so on. And yet it doesn't work very well to do that. The cabinet is working on a number of projects, and that is very nice, but we know that something like internship discrimination, to name but a few, will continue to occur. That remains very persistent. Then why wouldn't it work? I can also imagine that this has to do with the way we talk about it in the Chamber. This debate would be about Muslim discrimination, about anti-Islam sentiments. Nevertheless, I also notice that it is being turned around again in this Chamber, that a number of parties were engaged in a large part of this debate to explain how that could happen, why people are being excluded. I'm sorry about that. I do not think that we should deal with debates in this way, at least not when a debate is on a specific issue. Mr. Chairman. I have one more outstanding question for the Minister. We've asked for an expert team at the MBO. I haven't heard the answer to that. This includes tackling internship discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u328	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Meanwhile, the motions filed are multiplied. I'm just gonna fill up the time until the Minister feels able to take the floor. We're suspending for a short five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u329	Welcome back, Minister Koolmees. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the second term I would come back to the question "When will the Lower House be informed about the intermediate position?', Mr Heerma's question on informal training. That's spring 2022, then those pilots are finished. In three municipalities: Rotterdam, Tilburg, Huizen. Turning to Mrs Leijten, I would like to say that the JenV Minister is coming before the terrorist debate on 17 June with a response to Mrs Sterckenburg's book, at the request of the JenV Commission. It's already been done, yeah. I didn't know that either; the officials told me that. The third point that was raised was a question for me from Mr Eerdmans. Look, no one denies there are extremist expressions. No one denies that wrong things happen. In my view, the point is that Mrs Belhaj also mentioned: that there is, I shall say, a direct link to extremist expressions and to the exclusion of people. And that's where it goes wrong. We sat together at Op1, opposite Mr. Grunberg, after his 4 May lecture. That was exactly what we had a debate on then, Mr Eerdmans and I. Because you have to judge people by their individual behavior, not as part of a group. By assigning people to a group every time, you're gonna put people away, like, so to speak, suspect, or in an exclusion ground. And maybe that's not your intention, but it's the effect of that blanket that's being put over it all the time. That is what I think Mrs Belhaj meant by her heart cry in her second term. And I think you should be very careful there. Because I don't want to deny that there are fears. I don't want to deny that things aren't going well. I don't want to deny that there are problems that we have to deal with together. But by translating that, so to speak, to a reason for an exclusion or a reason for justifying discrimination: that can never be the intention. I'd like to make that distinction clear. And that distinction we should also guard with each other, I think, because otherwise you will find yourself in some sort of sense of right-making very quickly, which may not be your intention, but may be the effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u331	This calls for a response from Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u332	Yeah, I get that. My own fault, stupid of me to 10:30... But okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u333	I think it is a good thing that you say so, because that is absolutely not what I would like to say anywhere. Because people are afraid of Islam, can there be discrimination? Not at all. I just think it's important that you acknowledge that: guys, people can feel that way, right? They may feel misunderstood, they may be scared. And that's what I wanted to say, that that rules in many large groups of society. That is without prejudice to anyone's right to say: you are Muslim, so I do not trust you, and I do not want you in my case. Or: I don't want you on the payroll. That's totally, totally true. So I guess that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u334	Yes, and that's what I said in my introduction. If 55% of Muslims in the Netherlands face discrimination and exclusion almost every day, then something really goes wrong. And then I think it is our joint responsibility to limit that, and to take a stand on that. And I think it's going to help a lot if we do that together. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u335	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u336	The motions, Mr. Chairman. That was fast as hell. I also have to say that there are a lot of points about policy areas of my colleagues, not about my policy area; which is complicated in this type of debate, which I have to keep referring to others. I'd rather not, but I'm not going to take up my colleague's position either. The first motion by Mr Azarkan, tabled by Mr Azarkan, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of I would ask him to hold it until the debate on 30 June, because then the debate with the Minister for the Interior on the NCDR, the national coordinator who is being appointed, will also discuss the task. This is much more appropriate, so I would kindly ask him to hold that motion until that debate, otherwise I will have to advise her now, otherwise I will have to call the Minister of the Interior. And she's already asleep, I hope for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u337	I'll take a look at Mr. Azarkan. He seemed to send out some non-verbal signals, but I couldn't read them properly, I have to say quite honestly. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u338	I can hear what the Minister says. I'm gonna think about that for a night, and then I'm gonna decide if I'm gonna move in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u339	Otherwise, I'm gonna dissuade the judge, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u340	No, but that was important. So the verdict is "dissuade, unless."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u341	Then I also understand why I could not read Mr Azarkan's signals very well. Obviously, we'll hear it from Mr. Azarkan. Otherwise, your judgment will be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u342	Perhaps Mr Azarkan is so wise to stand there, because I have four other motions from him. The motion in part No. I would advise you not to, because a law on citizenship education has just been passed. Your Chamber has debated this extensively with Minister Slob. It's in the First Chamber now. A number of key objectives have also been discussed on the citizenship mission. I don't think I should repeat that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u343	That is strange, because I have tabled a motion which does not refer to anti-Semitism, but in particular to the fight against Muslim hatred. It's accepted, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u344	When? With who?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u345	I don't know by heart. But in the core goals...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u346	Maybe we can take a look offline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u347	We find each other offline, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u348	Then I'd be happy to dive in. The third motion, in part No. 242, calls on the Government to recognise Muslim hatred and discrimination as a specific form of discrimination and racism, as is the case with anti-Semitism. We already do. We've even made separate reports on Muslim discrimination. The motion is therefore superfluous. I'm in a good mood, so I'm giving her judgment room, but it's basically just policy support, because we're already doing it. But since I just want to be sympathetic once in a while, I give the motion judgment chamber. Then the motion to part No. 243. I also ask Mr Azarkan to keep it, because I understand his point well, but it is about police registrations and that is not what I am talking about. I would like to make contact with Mr Grapperhaus, who is in charge of the national police, to discuss this point and I would like to inform your Chamber, but I cannot undertake to do so now. If you'd like to hold the motion, I'll come back to it later. Then we'll go back offline and see what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u349	Then I show myself from my good side: this one I keep on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u350	Great, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u351	At the request of Mr Azarkan, I propose his motion (30950), No. 243). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u352	In the motion in part No. 244 are two elements. One is monitoring election campaigns. The question is whether a national coordinator should deal with this issue or whether it is more of a political issue, which you yourself are concerned about, a bit of a reflection of the discussion I had with Mrs Simons on the political debate in the Netherlands. The other element is that it is again about this national coordinator, which will be discussed on 30 June, including his mandate, with the Minister for the Interior. That is why I ask the author to hold the motion until that debate, because it will deal specifically with this task.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u353	Let's take another look at Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u354	I'm gonna think about that. I just need to sleep on it. Otherwise, I hear the motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u355	Yes. Yeah, that's always the default, isn't it? You know that. But there's a longer story to it. A while ago, I think six months ago, we once had a morning debate on anti-Semitism and on broader discrimination in the afternoon. In the morning it was with me and someone else and in the afternoon it was with Grapperhaus and Mrs Ollongren in the plenary. At that time, several motions were tabled. It is, I think, good to get that together in the debate on the national coordinator on 30 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u356	Your message is clear, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u357	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u358	Then the motion to part No. 245 by Mrs Simons. It calls on the government to come to the Chamber with a proposal for a legal definition. This is a motion I'd like to dissuade. In fact, the judge has the room to judge and make an assessment of discrimination himself, and would then be limited in his interpretation of it. In the motion in part No. 246 the government is invited to examine the possibility of establishing a framework for the prohibition and dissolution of organizations which disseminate and exchange racist ideas against Muslims. I think that is already a criminal offence, but with my lack of legal knowledge, I dare not dissuade or embrace this motion, so I'm going to consult with the Minister of Justice and Security. In the meantime, would you like to continue the motion? I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u359	Mrs. Simons is nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u360	The motion in part No. I find it really complicated, because it is not necessarily about this debate and it really needs to be submitted to another govern ment, because it is about the police leadership and its direction. I would therefore advise against this motion, or refer the author to a debate with the Minister of Justice and Security on the police. Mr. Chairman. That's it, I think. So I will return to a few things in writing, at a later date, after consultation with colleagues in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u361	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the Members of Parliament for their contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-25-tweedekamer-28.u362	That brings us to the end of this day. The motions that have been tabled have been retained, but some of them will not be put to the vote next week. I wish you a good, safe homecoming.
