ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u1	The kick-off is the two-minute debate on the Environment Council of 20 December. We have five participants in the debate, four of whom are going to speak. The first is Mrs Hagen from the D66 Group. She has, like everyone else, two minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. Compliments and also thanks to both Secretary of State for a very good substantive debate. Yesterday we took a number of important steps with each other to the Environment Council of 20 December, including on deforestation and waste exports, for which we are very grateful. At some point there was a short change between Mr Bontenbal and others. I have prepared a motion on this, the motion for a resolution on the closure of coal power plant and ETS rights. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the closure of the Onyx coal power plant is expected to produce 3 megatons of CO reduction per year in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the German Coalition Agreement decided to use Article 12(4) of the EU ETS Directive and, on the basis of that, to auction fewer allowances after the closure of coal plants;]] [[invites the Government to examine the possibilities of removing these rights from the market in compliance with the legislative proposals in Fit for 55, including the proposals for revision of the EU ETS Directive and the rules for the Market Stability Reserve, and to inform the House of Representatives of the results of the first quarter 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hagen, Mr Boucke, Mr Thijssen, Mr Kröger, Mr Bontenbal and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-08-840]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. I have a motion and a question. I'll start with my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the implementation of RED II in the Netherlands excludes the production of green gas bio-LNG transported through the gas network;]] [[noting that the liquidification of green gas benefits from sufficient scale and the exclusion of transport via the gas network leads to unnecessary complexity and unnecessary costs;]] [[noting that the use of CNG remains possible under RED II to use the gas network for the transport of methane and subsequently to create HBEs;]] [[Whereas bio-LNG will be necessary for the sustainability of heavy transport and shipping;]] [[Whereas the use of the gas network prevents a lock-in and provides flexibility to easily supply the built environment and industry with green gas;]] [[Calls on the Government to reconsider the eligibility of green gas transported through the gas network for HBEs so that bio-LNG can be included in achieving the national renewable fuel targets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bontenbal and Mr Hagen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-08-841]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u4	My question concerns bioethanol and the decision on energy transport. I am asking this question here because I might be able to avoid having a two-minute debate next week. What's the case? There are parties producing bioethanol which also have a certain maximum target. The base year 2020 is used, but 2020 is a strange year, because it was a corona year and also the first year with the E10 obligation. Those parties therefore find that very difficult, because they think that they are failing to do so. I get that. I would actually like to ask the Secretary of State: would you like to look at that again and consider whether there is another form of basis to be devised, perhaps by choosing another year or by pulling together for two years? Would you like to take a closer look at this so that we do not unduly harm these companies? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u5	Clear. Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Bouchallichh from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, but I do not like her. I should like to give the floor to Mr Thijssen of the Labour Party. He's the last speaker. Then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State or one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions today, but I do have two questions. They're about taxonomy. The taxonomy in Europe is meant to indicate to financial institutions what is green or not. A nice piece has now been submitted by a number of financial institutions. They very much want taxonomy not to be abused for greenwashing. Furthermore, they do not want gas in it, as this Chamber wants it to be, nor do they want nuclear energy. Unfortunately, this Chamber wants the latter. My question to the Secretary of State is how she sees this signal from the financial sector. Should we not have a debate with each other on whether we should take a different view on what is and is not in taxonomy? That's my first question. Then I have a second question. In De Financieele Dagblad there is even more talk about this signal from the financial sector. This is a kind of interim proposal, namely the Spanish proposal. Can the Secretary of State tell us more about this Spanish proposal? Is it perhaps a good option for the Dutch Government to join? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u7	Very good. The Secretary of State is asking for five minutes. Here's to it. That may also be a little shorter if the good answers are already known. I'm gonna suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u8	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you. Can I get the cathedral up a little more? I turn to a question and also to Mr Bontenbal's motion. The question was about bioethanol and the fact that the base year is 2020. He said that this was a special year in more than one area, and I think we all agree with him. Shouldn't we take another look at whether that's the representative year for a good base? I would like to propose to Mr Bontenbal that I take another very close look at the figures for 2021. They'll be somewhere in the middle of next year. Then we can see whether 2020 is representative, as we now think, or not. I'll let your room know. I see Mr Bontenbal nodding, Mr President, so that's nice. Thank you for that. Then I come to the motion on part No. 841 on bio-LNG. There are many initiatives in the pipeline. I understand what Mr Bontenbal is looking for here, but at the same time we must ensure that it is genuinely sustainable. That's what we all want. Fuels produced from the gas grid are physical fossil fuels. They're greened with a form of biogas. The NEa, which supervises this, sees possible enforcement risks if you walk this route, for example the greening of shale gas. That is not what Mr Bontenbal is after and neither am I. Greening LNG is part of the Energy Transport Scheme. I recognize this point from the internet consultation. I really understand Mrs Hagen's and Mr Bontenbal's quest, but I would ask that this motion be held. Then I'm gonna take a good look at it. I'll send you a letter with my appreciation for the moods for the Christmas celebrations, because I understand you want it then. In particular, I would also like the NEA to take a closer look at it, so that I do not accidentally open doors here that we do not want to open with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u10	I'm willing to hold her, but I'd like an answer to the question. At the moment when there is sufficient imports and removals at the end of the gas network, I think there is nothing wrong with that. I'm afraid we're going to do some irrational things in the Netherlands. This is about gas, but I could keep the same story about fuels, for example that sustainable fuels will soon be produced that you could bring from Rotterdam to Schiphol with a pipe, but that there will be a serious option for trucks, tankers, to drive back and forth with sustainable fuels, because they are not allowed to use that pipe network. Shouldn't we be a little more rational with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u11	An appeal to rationality: who can not agree? But I think Mr Bontenbal has understood my basic support for this motion. I just want to make sure I don't make any chunks. I think he understands that from me. You will receive a letter before the vote for the Christmas celebrations. So that's Thursday morning at the latest, but I'm really trying earlier. I really want to take a look with the NEA, so we don't do anything irrational there too. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u12	At the request of Mr Bontenbal, I propose his motion (21501-08, No. (Parliament adopted the resolution) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u13	Too bad about this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u14	That I can forget about you... I'm going blushing into the Christmas tree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u15	You will have two more debates with me in a moment, so a lot of time to make up for it. I have one motion and one question. I shall begin with Mrs Hagen's and colleagues' motion on item No. 840, on the rights that can be removed from the market now that we are closing a coal power plant. They are asking for an investigation, including in relation to the market stability reserve and what our neighbouring countries are doing. I can promise, so judge Chamber. Then I had a question from Mr Thijssen about taxonomy in relation to nuclear energy and gas. The first package has already been adopted by the Commission. Nuclear power and gas have been left out. I have a clear mandate from the Chamber: follow science. Our position on gas has been very clear since the summer, since this is happening: gas does not fall within the scope of the Netherlands. The Chamber has also been very clear about nuclear energy: follow science and join countries that have that line. So I say to Mr Thijssen and colleagues: let us stick to our line. Let us follow science and see what the Commission comes up with. As soon as the Commission comes up with something, we will, of course, settle it here. Then we can think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr Thijssen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u17	The point is that, in my view, the Commission does not come up with anything. I think it will now be discussed in the Council. The second is that there is no group of countries that says: we remove gas and nuclear energy in it. There is a group of countries that says: both inside. And there's a group of countries that says, both out. Can you therefore say a little more about the Spanish proposal? 'Cause that seems to be looking for a middle ground. Isn't that a place that the Netherlands could join?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u18	I would make it as little political as possible on these subjects. The Commission is coming up with a proposal. The Netherlands has a very clear position in this regard. We keep saying follow science. Don't make it political, especially when it comes to climate policy, techniques, solutions and opportunities. Let's not do that in the Chamber either. That will remain our message in Europe. Follow the facts; follow science. Then we'll see what we come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u19	Fine, thank you. So much for this debate. We thank Mr Van Weyenberg for his presence and wish him a safe journey home, or wherever he goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-09-tweedekamer-4.u20	But Mrs Yeşilgöz stays. I'm not going to say goodbye to you yet.
