ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would, of course, like to welcome the spokesmen, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Minister for Justice and Security. We will continue with the debate on the Enlargement Act (35528). Yesterday we had the first term on the side of the Chamber and today answers will be given from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	I now give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I shall begin by telling you how we have divided the tasks today. I would like to say something general later and then address all the questions that have been asked about customisation and penalty combinations. The question has also been asked as to which offences are covered by the public service ban. What are you taking and not taking? I shall then turn to those questions. So that's part of the scope. Then Mr. Grapperhaus takes over when it comes to scope: which professions are you taking along with you? In other words, what do you mean by "public officials"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	As a result of your classification, I would like to make a comment which applies not only to you, but to all directors. I'd like to ask for those general introductions...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	...to keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	I would prefer that there should be no general introductions at all. But if it is necessary, let them be as short as possible, because we really have a tight schedule. The Members of Parliament have been suffering a great deal from me lately because they have to be brief and concise. But that also applies to the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	I take note of that. The advantage of the long suspension since yesterday we had, is that we also got a very compact and to the point text.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	Well, I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	I'm sure that's gonna work. It is also good that we can continue this debate so soon after yesterday. I think that over the last few days we have all seen what violence is doing towards agents and other public officials, and whatever it does with indignation, but also with public authority. We all think that's reprehensible. And at the same time, it's good that we don't get carried away in the anger and indignation. A number of notions were made about this yesterday. We need to look soberly at the bill as it is on the table. I think that's important both ways. One: you keep us critical and see how this bill works out. But it is also important because the application of this bill goes even further than for the agents we have seen in the last few days. I think we should pay them a great deal of respect and appreciation. But in recent years, I have also had a lot of conversations with people in prison and, for example, in youth protection. The people there have had to deal with such violent cases, although less "out in the open." That is also what the bill is for. Mr. Chairman. The aim of the bill is to reduce violence against officials with a public role. We all seem to be very much in agreement on that. It is now mainly about the means that we use to achieve this; the extension of the already existing public service ban. Mr. Chairman. Violence against people with a public task is unacceptable. These people jump in front of us when the need is for the man. They must act. It is the people who must take a step forward and cannot take a step aside. They're guarding security and order. It is particularly harsh when these people are treated to violence over and over again. Even worse is when the perpetrator of that violence gets away with community service. I say "get out of here" because that's the perception. According to some, community service is not a punishment at all, or a milder punishment. And of course I'm a lot more nuanced in that. The community service is an important value in our entire range of sanctions. However, in line with the public service ban already in place and in line with what has been envisaged in its implementation, I would like to point out that community service is only appropriate for comparatively minor offences. In my view, violence against people with a public role is not the case. So this bill also has a strong normative effect, a strong normative character. Let me begin by answering Mrs Kuik's question about the separation of powers. Is the judiciary still independent with this bill? The answer to that question is a full yes. The bill does not in any way interfere with the separation of powers. The division between legislative, executive and judicial power implies that the legislator has his/her own task when it comes to normalising the penalty measurement. This is also apparent from the Code of Criminal Law. It is the legislator who determines within what limits, within what framework, the court's freedom of punishment takes place. Next, it is the autonomous responsibility of the independent court to determine, in individual cases, the practical application of that law and the imposition of sanctions within those legal limits. This brings me to the need for the legislator to intervene. Mr Van Nispen asked for this. He raised the scale of the problem and actually wanted to know whether the judge is not actually imposing standard prison sentences in the case of violence against people with a public service. The honest answer to that is no. It is common in recent years that bald community service is also imposed in these cases. We gave it to you in the exchange of letters. There are more than 100 cases on an annual basis. There are also cases in which there has been serious violence, such as attempts at aggravated assault. I think that, in general, it is very common, and that is disturbing; hence this proposal for a directive. In the case of violence against these persons, a bald community service is no exception. In my view, this also contradicts the view expressed by the Advisory Section of the Council of State that the imposition of penalties in practice is as we see it. We combine this with the widely shared feelings, including in this Chamber, that violence against people with a public role should be reduced. We therefore consider it necessary to extend the public service ban that we already know for serious crimes of violence and violence. It is up to the legislator to determine which sanctions can and cannot be imposed in the case of certain offences. In this violence against officials with a public service, we want to rule out barren community service. We are talking in particular about the punitive part of a sanction to be imposed. Mr. Chairman. I just mentioned all the punitive part of the sanction. With this I immediately bridge to the first major issue, namely the possibility for the judge to offer customization. I understand very well that tailor-made work is a point, especially in this tide where there has been talk of other things such as the childcare allowance. Some of your Members referred to this in his contribution; how will the legislation work out in the near future? Looking at this bill, I find that the judge still has a lot of room for customization. One could say: unlike the way in which the childcare allowance was recovered at the time, where it was a kind of all-or-nothing approach. Here is room for a lot of customization. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen, Mr Kuik, Mr Van den Berge and Mr Van der Graaf drew attention to this and there are also amendments to extend the sanctions combinations. On the other hand, there is an amendment tabled by Mr Helder, which raises this issue in a different way. At least, she did so when she announced her amendment, but I think it has already been tabled. It is in favour of restricting the right of pardon, which actually means a slightly further restriction. Mr Van den Berge discussed the objectives of the sanctioning. I'd like to start with that. In this bill, he is right, the emphasis is on retaliation. At the same time, I would point out that we are also paying attention to other sanctions, to the identity of the suspect and to the circumstances in which the offence was committed. The starting point is that the offences which are subject to the public service ban are physical violence against officials with a public service mission, so serious that we believe that there is an unconditional prison sentence in place here. But that didn't say everything. We don't just have eyes for retribution. There is also room for, for example, the sanctioning target of special prevention. In this context, I would also like to refer to the Penalty and Protection Act, which has been used by the Cabinet to make the enforcement of penalties more helpful in preventing recidivism. It is said that from day one we are going to work on a responsible return to society and everything we do at that time, such as the granting of leave or conditional release, we are aligning ourselves with that greater goal. Now, of course, there are fewer possibilities for the prison system for crimes involving reduced custodial sentences. And the behavioral influence is more in the criminal domain. This means that, in addition to imposing an unconditional prison sentence, the judge can also provide that part of that sentence is not enforced on condition. It may be a combination of an unconditional part and a conditional part, including the possibility to take a probationary period and to attach special conditions to it. That system, in which the judge can provide customization, also for desired behavior change, is not affected by this bill. The legislative proposal is in line with this system, since it does not exclude the possibility of determining, when imposing a prison sentence, that part of it is not implemented on a conditional basis. Here there is room for special prevention, here is also room for the special needs of some of the perpetrators. Think, for example, of treatment and guidance, which can indeed take place within the framework of special conditions. In this context Van Nispen asked about disorders of polyplegers and the member Kuiken talked about young adults with learning difficulties. Interventions aimed precisely at this can therefore be linked to that conditional part of the prison sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u10	As the Minister himself said, it is a somewhat one-sided perception that community service would not be a real punishment. He said, "I'm looking at that more nuanced myself." In this legislative proposal, the emphasis is on retaliation, partly on the basis of that one-sided perception. I'd like to ask the Minister a question of conscience. If we look at these four criminal targets, would it be wise to emphasize one criminal target from a somewhat one-sided perception, if this could be at the expense of other criminal targets, such as preventing repetition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u11	Sure. You must always be alert to that, but in my view it is not that the emphasis we are now putting on that part of retaliation is by definition at the expense of the other criminal targets. I think it is right and proper that we all say that if you have your claws on our people, there is only one punishment for that. In the hierarchy of punishments, the liberty-taking punishment, the prison sentence, is at the top. In terms of retaliation, I find that more important than community service. But it is not excluded that a judge in the sentence he ultimately imposes makes a combination of different parts of the sentence. It is possible for the judge to say: we are doing an unconditional prison sentence in conjunction with community service. You can still do that. It may be that a judge says: we do part of unconditional imprisonment with part of it conditionally and then we make a number of demands and conditions, for example that you are going to be treated, that you are getting rid of your addiction or otherwise. It is therefore possible to meet these two objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u12	The Minister just said that in 100 cases, he thought it would prevent a barren community service from being imposed, but the risk with that kind of figures is that the context will be lost. In practice, there are cases in which there are very good reasons for imposing only community service. I've heard that from a former judge. For example, someone may just be in a successful treatment pathway outside the prison walls and that treatment cannot be offered within the prison walls. The term 'quiet community service' does indeed sound like it is not a real punishment, but that is, of course, not true. There can be very good reasons why it is wise to dismiss a case with community service, for example in order to prevent repetition or to protect society. I would therefore ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr Van den Berge would have a point if the judge were to be greatly restricted in the customization that it can apply. This bill says that you should not impose barren community service when violence is committed towards a public servant. The law doesn't say you have to apply minimum punishment. Mrs Helder may wish that, but it does not say: you will have to go to prison for at least as long. Between a public service ban and minimum penalties there is still a huge range of choices that a judge can make in determining the customization that it imposes. If someone is in a treatment, the judge can see if it is possible to continue the treatment in part in prison. A prison sentence may be imposed which is unconditional in combination with community service, or in combination with a conditional part. All these possibilities remain. Does this even contain anything? Yes, it is being restricted, because the law states that the basic principle is a liberty-taking punishment, but it is not such that there is then no more tailor-made work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u14	Finishing at this point, Mr. Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u15	The bill may not be exactly what Mrs Helder wants, but it is a clear bill: someone simply goes behind bars, even if it can be at the expense of the treatment. I'll conclude on this. The Minister may be right to say that the minimum sentence is not super high, but it does limit the scope for human customization by a judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u16	In this respect, it is very doubtful whether treatment will actually be broken even in the case of shorter prison sentences. Here too, there is always addiction care and psychiatric care in prison. There, of course, work can be done to continue a discussion, regardless of the possibility that Mr Van Dam also mentioned yesterday. I am not going to put that out in the open here, but if, for example, there has been preventive detention, it can also be said that someone has been in prison for a number of days, and that is what we are combining with the following. In practice, this does not happen very often. For example, the evaluation of the public service ban in the case of serious violence and sexual offences shows that this is being used in a sparing manner, but it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u17	My question is exactly about the customization. This is, of course, a little less possible as a result of this legislative proposal. The Minister defends that here. I wonder whether the results are always reasonable. I don't want bald community service anymore. What is allowed is a task force plus, for example, one day in jail. It's okay. Whatever it is, it's a suspended sentence. That too is permitted. But what is not allowed is a community service combined with a suspended sentence. That's really not consistent. That's not good to explain. If the purpose of this bill is to send the signal "hands off from aid workers"..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Why just make that one combination, a community service combined with a suspended sentence, impossible? Would the Minister not do well to make it possible for the combination, which in some cases allows for a personal approach and is a more effective substance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u18	We are not making that impossible with this bill now. We are keeping the community service ban, which now also applies to acts of violence and sexual offences, as it is. The combination you point out is excluded. Of course, this has also been the subject of a wide-ranging debate with your Chamber on several occasions. In fact, I believe that this exception was specifically made in the third paragraph by an amendment tabled by Mrs Van Toorenburg. That has to do with this: if you are talking about the punitive part, then the basis is a prison sentence and not community service. If you allow the combination of parole and community service, the practice will show that community service comes back prominently as the rewarding element in violence against authorities. That is why I do not want to opt for enlargement now. That is what you and I believe Mrs van der Graaf are proposing in the amendments that have been tabled, but I would not be in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u19	I know the history of law. I was there at the time, and I know how that went. If you extend the public service ban now, you will, of course, make it impossible for more cases to be imposed in conjunction with that suspended sentence. We have the debate here. The Minister may refer to an amendment from the past, but here is the debate. We now have the evaluation of a public service ban, we have an opinion from the Council of State and we have advice from probation and from justice. They all point in the same direction, and I think we should take that very seriously. In short, my urgent plea is to allow for the combination of community service and a solid parole in a number of cases. A community service doesn't have to be lenient. That could be 240 hours of useful service. That's quite a bit; that's much heavier than maybe sitting for a few days. That, of course, makes the assessment of this bill much easier, I say to the Minister. I would really appreciate it if the Minister also wanted to demonstrate a moving insight and look at what all the experts are saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u20	I would like to point out to Mr Van Nispen that I have looked at this very seriously. We had here not so long ago the evaluation of the public service ban for serious violence and sexual offences. But I have also, of course, made a very conscious decision not to comply with this wish, which is also expressed by a number of parties in the field, precisely because the idea of a public service ban is the principle of unconditional custodial punishment. On top of that, there is still enough space in there to provide customization. So you can choose to combine an unconditional prison sentence with community service. We are not restricting the judge for the rest, but if you combine it with a probationary sentence, that community service actually comes back very prominently as the punitive element in violence against public officials. For me, the essence of this bill is that we want a very clear standard in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u21	The Minister cites the evaluation of the public service ban as we know it in the case of violent and sexual crimes. It is precisely that evaluation that shows that this possibility of imposing that conditional penalty with conditions of conduct is actually missed from the public prosecutor's office, which may be accompanied by an ankle strap, possibly in conjunction with that community service, and that it does not affect the punitive element, but may be an effective punishment. We have just adopted motions yesterday which say that opinions to the legislator to allow exceptions in individual cases have been taken in the wind. I would like to say: let's not make that mistake again. If the Council of State advises it and if we know that the evaluation indicates it and that the advisors of the government and us as legislators indicate the legal practice, the probation, lawyers..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u22	That's exactly the point: if you're going to do that... eventually, the choice is also up to the Chamber. I am giving an opinion on the amendment and ultimately the House must vote on it. I would just like to outline that, in my view, it undermines the very essence of the public service ban, because in that combination of sanctions, the public service ban combined with a conditional part of the public service ban is, after all, a very prominent aspect of community service. That's different if you put community service with an unconditional part, actually from the idea that you can say to everyone: if you're touching our people with your hands, you just sit down. That is not the case in your variant. That undermines the effectiveness of the bill. That's not why I'm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u23	I do think that the Minister is trying a little too hard to pretend that the proposal put forward by Members of Parliament through this amendment is aimed at a bald community service. That is simply not the case at all. That is not what the amendment proposes. The amendment proposes that the suspended sentence should also be combined with other possible penalties, including community service. Let us not pretend that a conditional prison sentence, to which all kinds of conditions and rules of conduct can be attached by the judge, does not also contribute to the punitive element. They do contribute to that. I would ask the Minister once again to reflect on this and also to explain why he is taking all these advice in the wind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u24	I'm not gonna beat the crap out of advice. I just weighed them. I then come to the final judgment that if you go along with that idea, you actually undermine the effectiveness of the community service ban, because community service comes to the fore again very prominently. The commitment, the starting point of the public service ban, is: violence against cops, firefighters, youth protectors and prison staff is basically a prison sentence. In my view, at least another part of the Chamber also says: we want to give a very clear signal on that point. In the combination you propose, you give more space to impose other penal combi's as well. I do not want to say that this is not a form of punishment; it is indeed. Even now, of course, punishment is simply imposed. In some cases, that's community service, but not prison time. That is why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u25	As a judge after this proposal has been brought to law, and I think it would be appropriate at some point to impose a prison sentence with the duration of one day, to compensate for the insurance of one day that someone has already received, and 240 hours of community service, does the Minister consider that in such a case the prison sentence is at the forefront of the penalty palette?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u26	I am not going to judge the individual application of the law here. We have, of course, seen the evaluation of the existing public service ban. In it we see that these structures occur. Anyone can agree with that, but I also say immediately that this is only the case in a few cases. This shows that there is room for judges to apply customisation, and at the same time the signal given by the public service ban on serious crimes of violence and sex is very clear: who commits such acts, who is guilty of such acts, should, in principle, simply go to jail. I can live with the outcome of that evaluation, but I will also say immediately: if you extend it now, and that is actually the proposal that is contained in this amendment, you would see much more often that this community service comes first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u27	In my view, the Minister is a little around the crucial question, namely: this is what the practice will show. In a number of cases where the public service ban does not do justice to the case, you will be given very small prison sentences, to be set against the insurance scheme, and also a substantial community service, in which, in my opinion, community service still prevails, including for the person undergoing it. 'Cause they've been through those two or three days anyway. This, of course, underlines that this is to a large extent a symbolic proposal. You can actually see that the minister always balances a bit between them. On the one hand, he sees that he has to keep that customized work in place, but on the other hand that also undermines the strength of his own proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u28	Symbols also matter. What I would like to point out here is that we also see more than 100 bare community sentences imposed every year, including for serious forms of violence against our people. In my view, we are saying, with this bill, that we do not want to do so. This will also prevent that from happening. Apart from the standardising element of this bill, I shall translate it in this way, but for a moment there is also a material and substantial change: where bald community service is still being imposed, it will not be possible to do so anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u29	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr. Chairman. I have just said something about the Christian Union amendment. I would advise against this with a brief reference to the debate we have just had on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u31	The amendment in part No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u32	No, Mr. Chairman. These are two amendments, one from the SP and one from the Christian Union. It says here: SP-01 and CU-02. But I don't know if that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u33	That was probably sent around this morning. I am looking at Mr Van Nispen. No, this is from Mrs. Van der Graaf and Mr. Van Nispen. Okay. You may explain, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u34	A very brief explanation. It is the Van der Graaf amendment. We were working on a similar amendment, but in the end it became one amendment. Maybe that's why I'm confused. It is simply the amendment in part No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u35	Okay. I'd advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u36	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr. Chairman. Members Van den Berge, Keik and Van der Graaf drew attention to the absolute nature of the community service ban. They asked whether a hardness clause should not be applied. An amendment has also been tabled by the Christian Union. I hear now saying that's not true. If no amendment has been tabled, then I am going... I thought an amendment had been tabled for a hardness clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u38	Do you know what amendments have been tabled? That always happens at the last minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u39	The Minister is indeed responding to an amendment that has not been tabled. Anyway, I can explain that. I have indeed considered tabling an amendment. I also have an amendment in preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u40	Ah, that made an impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u41	The planning of this debate took place a little last minute. In my contribution, I did indeed ask for a hardness clause, just like Mr Van Nispen, Mr Kuik and Mr Van der Graaf. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is an idea to introduce a hardness clause before the courts in the event of force majeure, so if there are very serious reasons, then I shall still table that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u42	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u43	The amendment has not been tabled, but it can, of course, do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u44	Then the amendment was announced. A hardness clause is not necessary in my view. It would also undermine the functioning of the bill. So if that is filed, I'll advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mrs Van der Graaf, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u46	What concerns this is that judges and the Council of State state state that the absolute wording of the prohibition contained therein does not leave any room to make an exception in individual cases. It is therefore not the rule that merely confirms the rule, but the exception. I would like to ask this Minister for Legal Protection to reflect on the following. The Minister is undoubtedly aware that the current legislative proposal, which he is the first proposer of, is regarded in legal practice and by the case law as a suspicion towards the judge: the judge is not doing well; the judge does not properly reflect the feelings in society in his assessment of penalties. I know that the Minister is also aware of the legal developments in the European Union, for example in Poland, where there was criticism of judges. Would the Minister like to reflect on this? How does he judge that? 'Cause I don't think it's gonna be in his cold clothes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u47	I have every confidence in the way judges in this country apply the law. They do that skillfully and well. At the same time, there can always be social developments on the basis of which the legislator says: given a particular practice, or given certain statements, we find it appropriate to adapt the rules, to adapt the law. That's not so crazy. There are a lot of crimes that we have said in the past that we think they are so serious that we want to express this in an increase in the maximum levels of punishment, which is based on the idea that heavier penalties are imposed, because we all consider that to be important. That too is not a suspicion or mistrust towards judges, which is exactly the process to which the triad should revert: judges apply the law, but if we think that the law on parts should be adapted, tightened or punished, then that is a debate that I think we can have here. And here we are specifically talking about a public service ban. That is not a very crazy discussion; we have had it in other areas too, in the case of serious crimes of violence and sexuality. And I also think it's in place to have it for violence against public aid workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u48	Then I would like to ask the Minister: why do we not entrust it to the judge to make that weighting in that individual case? Give him the possibility of that valve that's not in this law right now. Give him that opportunity, the instruments. He doesn't have to choose, but for that one case, which the judge thinks would be just, in that case, to combine a suspended sentence with a community service, or perhaps to impose a suspended sentence of a number of years - but conditionally. Give the possibility of that combination. Does the Minister entrust that judgment to the judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u49	I also believe that legislation should be clear and clear, and certainly where it is of a high standard, i.e. a legislative proposal such as this. And when I see how much space there is to deliver customization within the frameworks of this law, I don't think it's necessary to add a hardness clause. And I also think that undermines the clear standard. I therefore advise against the combination of these two, so say the mechanism of the hardness clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u50	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u51	But it is good that we have talked about this, because, of course, there have been other discussions about hardness clauses in legislation where there was much less room for customisation. And I still see a lot of room for customization in this bill. Mr. Chairman. Then there was an amendment that Mrs Helder asked for. It has tabled an amendment which takes account of the exclusion of the judicial pardon, Article 9a of the Code of Criminal Law. I would just like to mention this because it is also part of the instruments that the judge can use, which may be diametrically opposed to the idea of the hardness clause. And that's also what I'm not suggesting, because I don't want to change the judge's instruments right now. The effect of the hardness clause is that in cases where a public service ban applies, a community service may still be imposed. That's not why I'm here. But the application of the judicial pardon means that no penalty is imposed at all. If I were to go along with that, also because Article 9a is a general principle, we would therefore unnecessarily restrict it here, and I would think that would be unwise. That is why I would also advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u52	Although, of course, I understand that somewhat and saw it coming, this is not consistent. The Minister said in his introduction, and he has often repeated it, that violence against aid workers simply fits a prison sentence, as a principle. The extent to which, you can differ about that, but a court pardon will ensure that, despite a conviction, no prison sentence is imposed. That is therefore contrary to the intention of this bill, and that is why I wanted to exclude it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u53	I have just made a whole speech about the scope and possibilities that the judge still has for customization, and Mrs Helder says: I actually want to limit that a little bit further. I believe that we should not take the rightful pardon that there is and which a judge can choose for, for example, because of the low seriousness of the fact or because there are personal circumstances or if there are new facts or circumstances after the fact has arisen, unnecessary, also because it is a generic principle that applies in principle to the whole of criminal law. I say that all the more so, and I cannot say that I have fully checked it, but in the run-up to the debate I have tried to figure it out because I wonder whether we are actually seeing cases where this is being applied to a large extent. I don't actually run into them, not even in cases of violence against cops, for example. So I don't see the great need to do that either. Therefore: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u54	Not seeing the need... My argument with this amendment is that leaving this possibility open is contrary to the intention of the bill. It's not gonna be him, I realize that, but I wanted to have said that. In his statement of reasons, the Minister is the first reason for his pardon: the seriousness of the fact. That is precisely why we want this bill; the seriousness of this is such that it justifies a prison sentence. So that's not entirely consistent. Anyway, I just wanted to make this clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u55	I'm trying to get between the different views in the Chamber. One is perhaps even tighter on this side and the other wants to offer a little more space. Having also heard the discussion, I try to find the balance and I would like to stick to the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u56	Are you okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u57	Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. I come to the Christian Union amendment on the evaluation clause. I am well aware of this, and I can therefore leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u58	I don't really know where the minister gets his information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u59	I just got a note saying it hasn't been filed yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u60	You are referring to an evaluation clause, but I have not tabled an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u61	You have just said, Minister: even if the amendment has not been tabled, I do not recommend it. But you can't. You are simply assessing the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u62	Then I would like to have an overview of the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u63	No, you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u64	I'll take a look at the jail, back up. Because it would really help if we could just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u65	But you cannot say anything about any amendments that have not been tabled. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u66	Yes. I'm moving on fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u67	I wanted the moment to official support...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u68	Just point the microphone at you or we won't hear you. And you always have interesting contributions. We don't want to miss that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u69	Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u70	You're getting all messed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u71	I thought that perhaps I could help the Minister in the mean time that the amendments would be put in order. I notice the Minister is now answering where the nuance is. Yesterday there was one thing that I had some doubts about myself, and that concerns the question of whether you can also impose a paroleal penalty. So you have community service. In addition, there must be an unconditional prison sentence. But can any part of this be my statement, while there are colleagues who want it to be totally conditional? I have just gone into the text and commentary on criminal law. And that says: Parliament's history is not conclusive about whether the combination of community service with a partially unconditional prison sentence is possible. I think it is important to raise this issue here in order to help the legal practice with that. My group would have no objection to the possibility of a part of conditional imprisonment, in addition to that unconditional part. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u72	It is not possible to pronounce a conditional part in addition to an unconditional part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u73	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u74	I am now given an overview so that I do not speak again about what has not been filed. Mr Groothuizen asked questions about the fine. It cannot be imposed in cases where the public service ban applies. It considers this to be a change of direction in relation to the position of the government in the introduction of the existing public service ban. It might be good to give a brief explanation. I mentioned in the introduction that this bill also serves to implement the motion tabled by Mrs Helder, Mr Van Oosten and Mr Van Dam. It calls for all acts of violence, including attempts at, against police officers and other public officials, to be brought under the functioning of Article 22b, so that the perpetrators of violence can no longer be subject to community service or a fine. In the explanation we give to this motion, the position is that in cases where the public service ban applies, no fine is imposed. I think that makes sense, too, because you see that in the ranking of sanctions, community service is above the financial penalty. Then it's crazy that if you can't impose bald community service, you might be able to impose a bare fine. Mr. Chairman. Then the scope and the scope. When it comes to violence against officials with a public role, this bill concerns Articles 300 to 303, abuse or a criminal attempt to do so. It is therefore a question of physical violence, one might say, which also leads to an impairment of the victim's physical integrity. Your room is still asking about other offences. In particular, it calls for Article 141 of the Code of Criminal Law, open violence. We've had an investigation into that. We indicated in the written preparation that we did not see any reason to include Article 141 in the extension of the public service ban. There are two reasons for this. Mr Van Dam already raised one of the reasons: often the public service ban already applies in cases covered by Article 141. The second paragraph contains penalty-enhancing circumstances for cases of injury of a different nature. As a general rule, this is already covered by the public service ban. In these cases, it is a matter of provisional detention due to the high threat of punishment and serious damage to the victim's physical integrity. The other reason is the WODC investigation. It confirms that many cases of minor violence would be covered by the public service ban if we included Article 141 as a whole. I mean by mild violence that although there is a sufficiently significant contribution, which Mr Helder mentioned, the violence of an individual offender has been really limited. Think, for example, of walking with a group or chanting, verbal violence. That can get worse and the consequences can be considerable. You do not withdraw and vocal expressions also contribute to the inhibitions we see now. I would therefore like to start by saying that, on my part, there is an understanding of Mr Helder's wish to extend the public service ban to Article 141. Then I am talking about the amendment I have to be very careful this time on...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u75	The amendment in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u76	Yes, that is the amendment on item No. 12. It's been filed. This is intended to extend the cases in which the public service ban applies to Article 141, but limited to the extent to which officials with a public service and in so far as there is injury are involved. I fully understand the desire to bring open violence under the workings of this bill as well, now that it is really specific to the target group of this bill and also to the aspect in which I was initially reluctant, namely if there is a violation of physical integrity. That is, in fact, the addition of the element'spoken of injury'. With these limitations, I can leave the opinion to the Chamber on this amendment. Mr. Chairman. In my view, therefore, we no longer need to have the broader discussion about "sufficient significant" et cetera, so we will save a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u77	It would help me to know what, in the view of the Minister, is a situation in which the victim's physical integrity is at stake, not being a situation as referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 141 in which injury occurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u78	You can imagine that certain objects are being thrown at the head of agents or members of the ME, where there is no serious injury, as is mentioned in paragraph 2, but where there is nevertheless a violation of physical integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u79	I think that we should give legal practice a little more handle: what then is a violation of physical integrity? Maybe it's hard to tell in this period, but it's a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u80	Then we really go into the details, because it is a change to the proposal. Let me come back to that briefly in the second term, then we will colour it in for the legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u81	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u82	Then I come to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u83	Excuse me, Mrs. Chicken has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u84	However, I find this worrying. There's quite some fundamental criticism of the bill. This is now being extended by an amendment. We will have a very brief explanation of this in the second term, while Mr Van Dam also asks: but what exactly do you mean by that? That must be clear if it is to be applicable. I would urge you not to do this in this way, because you know... I do not agree with the substance, I think it goes far, but there are still many things added with an amendment without any clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u85	Well, I think the amendment speaks for itself. It's just being asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u86	No! Excuse me, but I wasn't finished. A clear question is asked: what is meant by physical integrity? I can imagine anything, but at the same time it listens closely, because it means that you are not allowed to impose community service and that it must have this inference. In other words, there will have to be a very clear explanation in the second term; if you simply fill it out very briefly and do not make it very specific, I would prefer a letter in which you clearly point it out. In short, it is fundamental. All the answers given are more political than content: I do not want it, I do not see it that way, I do not worry about it. That is not the way to hold a debate. I notice that I'm annoyed, because it's about something very fundamental. So please, my call is... sorry, chairman, then I'm gonna sit down and shut up, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u87	You don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u88	... could it all be a little more fundamental?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u89	That is precisely why I think it is important, because it concerns the distinction between paragraph 1 and paragraph 2. I am pleased to have the precise legislative and amendment text on this, so that we can do it exactly. I will return to that in second term. Mr. Chairman. Mr Groothuizen had asked about the forms of participation. The forms of participation also fall within the scope of the legislative proposal. He asks how this relates to the crime of open violence. That question can only be answered in general terms. I suppose he compares forms of abuse that have been committed in association with open violence. This proposal will rarely allow the facts and circumstances in a specific case to be prosecuted under both Article 141 and the reporting of abuse. The problem, in one case, of the ban on community service or of communication, and in the other case, of public violence, could be solved by Mrs Helder's proposal. The member Van Dam raised a threat. The member Bishop raised a threat to private servants. He asks whether we are prepared to extend the legislative proposal with this too. I cannot go along with that, despite the fact that, of course, I have a great deal of sympathy for that wish. The police also asked for this in the advice. We do indeed see that policemen are sometimes seriously threatened. I also agree with Mr Bishop that this may be an obstacle to the exercise of the task. Threat is, of course, already a criminal offence. If it is a threat to a person with a public task, it will also lead to an increased penalty requirement of the prosecutor. I have just indicated in the answer to the questions where the limit lies for us in the definition of the scope of the legislative proposal. That's what it's all about. It's all about physical integrity. As is the case with the existing public service ban, there must be an attack on it, together with the violation of public authority. If by physical force you limit persons with a public task in the task exercise, the violation of public authority is also a fact. That goes hand in hand. I think there's something different about threats. No matter how serious! Without wishing to put the seriousness into perspective, I would like to keep the impairment of physical integrity intact as a condition. Mr Bishop called for further attention to be paid to the destruction of goods, in particular goods used by persons in the exercise of a public service mission. An amendment has been tabled on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u90	Yeah, you'd better judge that. Then you will have the floor, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u91	I wouldn't recommend that. I would like to refer briefly to the basic points of this legislative proposal. They really relate to physical violence against individuals. This is, of course, less true in the case of destruction of goods.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u92	The point is that we are looking for an additional security guarantee for people with a public task. In this bill it is indeed limited to physical degradation, but it is much more subtle? It's not something you can tear apart so far that you say: this bill only applies if you've really had a kick in the face? No, it can also be done in a very sophisticated way, so to speak under the skin, with threats, with telephone calls and you name it all. And if that is simply demonstrated, then what is wrong with this bill being applicable to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u93	I understand the question very well. Of course, we also see the images of threats. But what we have also tried to do with this bill is to frame it somewhat. There are, of course, a lot of facts and actions that you say are absolutely unacceptable and criminal. That's not what we're up against with this bill. The facts you are now referring to are also covered by criminal law. District Attorneys are also asking for a standard penalty increase if it is aimed at public officials. But the question is where do we put the line when it comes to the community service ban? That is, of course, also a means of discussion. We can also see that in this debate. We have said of this: let us limit this to matters where there is real physical violence and impairment of personal integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u94	In any case, the Minister is clear that an arbitrary choice has been made here. It's arbitrary; you put the border there. But what is now being brought under the public service ban is already punishable in criminal law. So in that sense, there's no need. That's why our story is: when it comes to people with a public task, that border belongs, you want to provide real security, to be expanded and not to be laid down in just physical tasks. I am pleased that the Minister has made it clear that there has just been a trade-off here and that an arbitrary choice has been made when the border is laid. Then I will really maintain the amendment, so that the Chamber can decide whether it wants to go further in terms of the security and protection of persons with a public role.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr Bishop is right that we must draw a line somewhere. We have tried to achieve some kind of consistency in our line. When are you going to say that bald community service is really out of place here, that should be basically a prison sentence? That's what's in the elements I've just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u96	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u97	These are physical violence, impairment of physical integrity and impairment of public authority. And then one just falls into the tub and the other falls just outside that definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u98	I'd like to know if you're coming to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u99	Oh, yeah. I actually get to my block of varia and then I like to throw up the stick. There is another amendment, in part No. 14. That's about minimum punishment. I would advise against that amendment. Then there is the question of the Member Van Nispen about the compensation that perpetrators have to pay. Victims can always join the criminal proceedings and receive concrete help from Victim Aid The Netherlands, for example when completing a claim form. If the court grants compensation, the amount of compensation may be recovered. This bill doesn't change that. Take the riots from last weekend. I believe that these people should not only be punished, but also, as far as I am concerned, pay back the damage they have caused to, for example, shops or entrepreneurs until the last euro. I think I answered the questions with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u100	Just so we're clear on the fine. If I understand the Minister correctly, he says: according to the system, community service is a bit more severe. We are talking about a public service ban, not a bald community service, combined with a full-time prison sentence. There must always be an unconditional part. The same applies to the fine. During the 2009 legal process, it was said that you could combine a suspended custodial sentence with a fine. The minister's moving away from that position. I think it's good to have that clear. Then my question is: why should you not explicitly lay that down in the law? It is precisely because we are slowly creating a rather complicated provision. It is sometimes useful for the practice to not immediately have to browse chapter 9 from Text and Comment, but simply to be able to read what it is like in the legal text itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u101	From the sanction hierarchy, I would have no objection to just codifying it. I don't think it's necessary, but if you say, "Do you mind?" That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u102	Okay. Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u103	Maybe it's a good thing the Minister's thinking about that after all. I don't feel I'm the right person to do that, as I have any reservations about this route at all. But if we take a certain route, I think it makes sense that we're trying to make it as clear as possible. It also requires a number of people who have done this in practice in the meantime some study and reference work to get it all clear. So I'm just going to give this suggestion to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u104	I'm gonna take a look at it. In any case, it is not a point of interest that the existing ban on community service was extremely prominent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u105	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment for the office to be cleaned before the Minister of Justice takes the floor. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u106	Mr. Chairman. Over 10,000 reports per year of violence against people with a public service mission. It's not taking off. I will go straight to the questions of Members Van Dam and Kikken. We've seen 8,828 cases entering the State's Attorney's office over the past year. Of these, 3,686 were guilty and 132 were acquitted. 1.447 cases have been dismissed. In 1,574 cases, there was a public prosecutor's decision. 20% will be dismissed, 15% conditionally and 5% conditionally. That's a percentage that's stable over the years. So about 60% of the guilty, and 5% of the acquittal. These are figures that vary from year to year. The covid crisis will undoubtedly have a negative impact on the figures this year. I shall go straight to the questions put by the Members, first of all by Mr Van den Berge. What is happening at the moment, together with mayors, police and security regions, to ensure that peace and quiet is restored? This afternoon, of course, there will be an even more detailed debate on this matter. This is in close contact with all interested parties. There is also discussion every day on the state of play and on what needs to be done. Restoring public order is the primary objective. And on top of that: lick piece by piece for the people who have a part in the riots of the past few days. I have already made it quite clear: that is scandalous or criminal. Mr Van den Berge also asked for specific measures to protect enforcers, aid workers and journalists. So we are gradually moving towards the subject of today's legislative proposal. The Safe Public Task programme VPT "VPT," which ran under Home Affairs from 2007 until the end of 2016, has generated a lot of research, knowledge, expertise and best practices. The starting point is that the employer has an important responsibility from good employership and can also mean a lot, preventive and reactive. In accordance with the clear national agreement between the OM and the police, declaration is given a priority handling. There are similar agreements for journalists. Unmistakable registration, listing and reporting of journalists have high priority in the detection and follow-up of aggression and violence against journalists by the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office and attention is also paid to the quality of investigations and reports. Those agreements are set out in the protocol Violence against the media. As of 1 April 2019, the Public Prosecutor's Directive will be in force, which will make it possible to enforce a higher penalty requirement in cases of aggression and violence against journalists. Then I come to the scope of the bill. Several Members have asked my colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection, and me about the scope. The Minister for Legal Protection has explained which forms of violence and offences are covered by the bill. I'm going to talk about the questions about the target groups. These are persons employed in the exercise of a public function in the context of maintaining order or security. Those are people who can't take a step back. On the contrary, they are expected to take a step forward, often in difficult, stressful situations, with often all kinds of tension in the atmosphere. This means that we assess violence against people with a public role more seriously than many other forms of violence; serious enough to want to include a rule on the type of punishment. We have included other elements in the definition of scope. First of all, the violence has led to an impairment of the victim's physical integrity. And: with the violence the public authority is affected. Finally, obstacles to the work resulting from that step forward. That step forward is really the core element, the point that comes first. That's the general line. But let us be clear: violence against people who do not work in the public service is, of course, not allowed. That too is criminal behavior. In the case of serious violence and in the event of serious damage to physical integrity, the current public service ban also applies. That's the general line. Mr Groothuizen noted...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u108	The'step forward' doctrine will be discussed in a moment, when it comes to who is covered by it. The Minister also mentioned journalists in passing. Now we have had an announcement from the Minister of Finance, live on television, that there will be an investigation into the extension of the scope of this bill to journalists. I'm very curious to know who ordered that investigation. When did the cabinet decide to launch that investigation? And most importantly, why were we as a Chamber not informed about this investigation? And how logical is it really for the Minister of Finance to announce on television an investigation that is in the field of this minister? I mean, is it also logical that this minister should say something about state participation or about buying vaccines?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u109	What's the deal, exactly? The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u110	Of course, the latter is something I don't back down for, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u111	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u112	...I'll save you time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u113	Well, we do want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u114	I have a high Cor van der Laak content at some times in my spare time, but I won't do that to anyone here. Mr President, I would like to come back to the following. I must confess that in recent days I have not had the opportunity to look at all the television sections, for which I apologize. It is true that the Cabinet is always open to suggestions from your Chamber regarding possible investigations and the like. At the moment, I do not have a decision to investigate enlargement to include journalists, because we have this parliamentary debate together and I think that it is good. Okay, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u115	But can't I assume that the cabinet still speaks with one mouth?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u116	You can't just assume that, I think you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u117	In that case, an investigation has already been promised by the cabinet. It has been announced, so whether the announcement was incorrect and then I would like to clarify this. Whatever television programmes the Minister has been able to watch and not have been able to watch, I find, to be honest, not so interesting. If the Minister of Finance says something that is in the area of the Minister of Justice, about a law that we are dealing with here, about a very serious subject, namely journalists who were attacked last weekend, then I think that is an issue that needs to be answered clearly now, and not about which television programmes have been watched or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u118	I would like to point out that I do not have the literal quotes that have been used by a colleague in a television programme. I can very well imagine...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u119	I can give it to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u120	Wait a minute, Mr. Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u121	The cabinet, still speaking with one voice, is free to express its views on certain matters, especially in the context of current developments. It will not escape Mr Van Wijngaarden's attention, at least, that I have heard very clearly from the news that there has been some scandalous action against journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u122	But the question is about an investigation. That is a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u123	I've already answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u124	I think we can be done very quickly. Minister Hoekstra said: I think you should investigate whether you cannot extend the public service ban further, namely to journalists, because of their role in the public service. If that research can come and if it can be promised, for example, that it will come before the summer, then we are done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u125	But I am going to be a little critical, because Mr Van Wijngaarden presented it here in such a way that the Minister of Finance would have announced that there would be an investigation. He brought that up with a great deal of words: "What is going on here? He's going on your property with this." Now that this is the quote, it appears that the Minister of Finance has said on behalf of the cabinet: we believe that such an investigation should be carried out. We think so. That's not the same as: we're going to do an investigation. That would not be correct to my colleague. He didn't say that. That the cabinet, especially in the wake of the riots of the last few days, felt that we should look further at this, was also included in my follow-up text. But I think that's quite another thing. I do think we should quote correctly. If we can't properly quote...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u126	But that is what Mr Van Wijngaarden did, because I think it was a quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u127	But he said something else before that, Mr. Chairman. I'm just critical of that, because that's what I'm here for. Mr Van Wijngaarden said that Hoekstra had announced that there would be an investigation. So he didn't. Hoekstra said he thinks so. And so does the Cabinet. And that's right, given what we've seen in the last few days. But it is always good to get the quote, to establish that something else has been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u128	Yes. Mr. Van Vineyards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mr President, I will finish this, but I think we are talking about the same thing, so I think it is a little unnecessary at the same time. "I think you should extend it to violence towards journalists, because it is so very important in our democracy that the press can just do its job." That's the quote, or at least the most important part of it. Then that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u130	So Hoekstra thinks there should be an investigation, and so on. Good. Mr. Chairman. Mr Groothuizen wondered whether it was not in that legal definition that it should be a public client. At least, Mr Grothuizen actually finds that out, and asks: what about a big concert? The security guards maintain the order, and what about the scope? That scope is sufficiently clear in itself. This is a public task exercise. As security guards at a major pop concert do so on the basis of a public licence, a public licence, that is covered by that public task. Other professions have also indicated that they wish to be covered by the proposed public service ban. I understand that, because this violence is always unacceptable and must always be dealt with. But let me be very clear. Mr Groothuizen talks about drivers in D.A., Defence personnel and referees. Drivers in D.A. and Defense personnel, if they have an operational task, are indeed covered by the bill. A referee can't, because he can stand down. Mr Groothuizen also asked about anti-Semitic violence and homosexual violence. There is, of course, a very different starting point. This is not so much a question of violence against a person exercising a public function where he must take that step forward, but of violence that has discriminatory aspects. That is not under the workings of this bill, and that would also require a completely different weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u131	Thank you for that clarification. It was clear to me that this discriminatory aspect does not fall within the scope of this proposal. But the next question does of course play a role here. If you look at it more abstractly, it is of course about "victims with a special position." Sometimes it is people who have to take that step forward, sometimes it is people who have a special position because they are homosexual, or because they wear a yarmulke because they are Jewish. The question is, of course, whether you are not creating, as it were, some sort of patchwork of special victims in your Code of Criminal Law. I know the Minister as someone who also has an eye for a little coherence in such a code. Is it a sensible way to do this? How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u132	Yeah, I think it's a sensible way. I should like to explain this in more detail. We have to go back to that core line about that step every time, what you have to do in the context of that public task and what is just embedded in your function. I will not dwell on it, but I am of course speaking a great deal with police officers, also in practice, just before they have to go outside and stand for something again. That's really something... something very special. And that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u133	That's clear, and I'm sharing it. Of course, it remains that for all kinds of reasons that we fortunately do not appreciate in this Chamber, are often attacked, are attacked, have to do with violence and that sort of thing. Those may not be people who are taking a step forward. But I do not think we want these people to take a step back from our society because they are being attacked for that reason. Does the Minister agree with me? And does he see any reason to see if you should specifically provide those groups with such special protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u134	We will be discussing two amendments tabled by Mr Van Wijngaarden. I definitely think it's worth it to be with each other...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u135	If it connects to this, I'd do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u136	Well, it's not entirely in line with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u137	Then you shouldn't mention it either, because I want to keep the pace up a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u138	Mr President, I am already keeping pace, I am talking faster and faster, but I do think that there may be some logic in replying to Mr Groothuizen. This is what I'm talking about. We certainly need to establish with each other to what extent your Chamber wants us to look further into what needs to be done, but I think we are talking here today about people in their work, in their function. That is what the two amendments are about. This is just another point. But if your Chamber were to say: we believe that this should also be investigated, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u139	You always mention these amendments. So I'd appreciate it if you'd give me an opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u140	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I admit...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u141	You've been at it for almost 15 minutes. There are two amendments; I would like to hear an appreciation of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u142	Okay, Mr. Chairman. With regard to these amendments, I have also been asked about caregivers, teachers, in short anyone who can be met in the public domain. Once again, people in care may also fall within the scope, as care may be covered by the maintenance of safety. Then I come to those amendments. First of all, there is the amendment to item No. 8 on private security. I'm gonna have to advise against that. Security guards shall be covered by the proposal in so far as they carry out their duties in the context of public policy or security. They are already covered and that should be a real comfort. This always applies to the extent that the security can be traced back to a public client or a public licence. When it comes to private security, the situation is different, including with regard to the withdrawal step. Then I come to journalists and publicists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u143	In its appeal, the safety industry itself calls for rules such as the 1.5 metres, the number of people allowed in the shop, the ban on alcohol and so on. They are dealing with brutal violence and are therefore asking for this, which is also a real appeal from society: please join us, because it does not feel like we can just take a step back. In practice, it doesn't work that way. Can the Minister just reflect on that call from the industry itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u144	The very clear dividing line is that public task. We have already extended this to everything that is ultimately the basis of a public client. There is also the situation that these people must take that step forward. In many situations, a private security guard has the choice of saying: I am not going to intervene here; here I am calling on the police. That possibility doesn't have a police officer or a member of the fire department.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u145	The Minister's answer, his assessment of the amendment, is what it is. This is, of course, disappointing for the industry, because it also happens a little theoretically. Is the Minister prepared to undertake to include this explicitly as a focus in the evaluation of the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u146	Fine. Still very quickly: this is not a theoretical starting point. That public task and that step forward is precisely at the heart of the legislative proposal. Then I'll get to the reporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u147	That is the amendment to item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u148	Yes, excuse me, this is the amendment to item No. 15. I should also advise against that amendment. As has already been said, the legislative proposal envisages violence against those who take a step forward in the performance of a public task. Given the objective of this bill, as we have also given it in consultation, you cannot include journalists. However, I have indicated that the cabinet recognises that the position of journalists, when compared to 15 years ago, seems to have become more vulnerable in this society. So I would certainly find it worthwhile to have a closer look at this. I believe that journalists, when I see them in the last few days, are sometimes put at risk in a completely ridiculous and scandalous way. But we cannot let that fall under this bill, which has gone through some criticism here and there by all the authorities, the Council of State, the Council of Justice, and so on. I didn't mean to. Perhaps we should establish that, and after that, I am really done on this point: at least in the three and a half years that Mr Dekker and I are ministers, a number of things have got worse for journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u149	Finally, Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u150	It is a good thing that we at least share the view that we need to protect journalists better. Yesterday in the media, the chairman of the Dutch Association for Journalism indicated that he would find it a logical step and a clear signal to support journalists here, also in response to all riots. But the Minister says: I actually want to take an intermediate step with that investigation and I therefore advise against the amendment of the VVD. Then can the Minister indicate what the timetable of that investigation is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u151	I think it is very real to say that we can be quite a long way after the summer. We are going to say something about the security guards, which Mr Van Wijngaarden asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u152	After the summer of 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u153	2021, yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u154	I believe that all the amendments have been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u155	Mr President, I'm almost through. These are the two amendments I have. I wanted to give Mr Van Wijngaarden very briefly, and I also say that to the journalists: we must continue to realise that the judge also looks very closely at the work they do, especially among journalists. The fact that they are not armed and should simply stand between them weighs with the penalty. We see this in practice and in case law. Mr. Chairman. I will come to a few other questions. Mr Van Nispen asked about the duration of the trial. That has to do with a careful handling of the case. Anyway, you've seen the statistics. You can see that there is a strong commitment to this, where possible with fast-track and lick-on-piece policies. I have also indicated that in recent days this has happened to people who have been misbehaving in the context of these riots or so-called demonstrations. Mr Van den Berge asked about the impact of the ban on fireworks on the reduction of incidents of violence. This year there was 70% less damage from fireworks. The police report I sent you on 11 January shows that the number of incidents of violence this year was also 25% lower. The influence of corona and the influence of the temporary ban on fireworks on the reduction of the number of incidents of violence cannot be properly separated. Mr Bishop asked about the detection of violence in groups. It is true that the legislative proposal does not entail any changes in the detection possibilities. We don't think that's necessary. They're really enough. It requires some creativity, commitment and determination to break the anonymity of individual group members and to find out their identity. Then it is especially important to use footage. The images placed on social media can also be used for this purpose. The police can also use cameras and other equipment. That's really very advanced. Then I come to the questions about the use of bodycams. The findings so far have been positive. The camera is switched on if there is reason to. It doesn't run all the time. Now it is only allowed to be filmed in public space and it must also be reported when the camera is turned on; all to remain within the limits of Article 3 Police law. For the past three years, the bodycam has gained experience in 30 test areas. Experience shows that agents find it a useful tool to increase security. I have said it here before, it often scares the culprits: people are afraid of being filmed. Let me ask you two more questions. Mr Van den Berge asked about other preventive measures. We have a task force to combat aggression and violence against aid workers. They will come forward with their plans in this area at the end of February. Finally, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van den Berge on the standard of declaration to the public authorities and other employers. That's really another thing we're working on. I am still talking to the parties about possibilities to ensure that the employers and employers on which this bill is based actually report. Violence should not be seen as something that belongs to the function. Mr President, these were my points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u156	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr van den Berge. He speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank both ministers and their support for the response. Let me start with a positive one. What is good about this debate is that we have all expressed our horror at violence against enforcers, aid workers and journalists. I think we share that from left to right. In my first term of office and during the interruptions, I discussed what GroenLinks wants to do about it. I will not repeat that now. For the sake of short, I would just like to mention that I referred to a ban on fireworks, bodycams and more colleagues for police officers and aid workers, for example. I will confine my reflections further to this bill, also in view of the clock. I'm just not convinced of this bill yet, let me be very honest about it. In the first term I asked a lot of questions and cracked critical notes. I'm not convinced by the answer. The crux is in front of me in the next. The Minister for Legal Protection himself said in his introduction: it also has to do with the perception of community service, with the idea that that would not be a real punishment. Well, that's where I'm at. I am not convinced of that argument regarding perception. I can see that many people feel that way and feel that way, but I do not think that we should base policy on perception. I believe that we should base our policies on facts and on what works in reality. I think that for someone who has committed violence against an aid worker, a community service in which that person is going to clean ambulances or fire trucks and the colleagues of the person he or she has abused should look straight in the eye, perhaps much more rewarding than a prison sentence. It is also a much more educational experience, which we can avoid repeating. In that sense, I also think that this bill is somewhat contrary to what we are doing with reparation law and mediation. A community service can indeed be a form of recovery right. It's not always, but it's often. Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I pointed out in detail the limitation of the room for human customization by the judge. I'm worried about that. On this point, too, the Minister has not convinced me. The Minister referred to the hardness clause and to the amendment that I have not yet tabled. I am going to breed on that, but since there was some confusion about the amendment, it might be good to give a brief explanation to my fellow Members. In preparing for this debate, I started with a draft amendment, which was also thanked to the Bureau of Legislation, the legal support of the Court of Justice to introduce a hardness clause. As a result, a judge may deviate from the public service ban if, for example, a treatment outside the prison walls makes it necessary. But when I was dealing with that amendment and the explanatory statement to it, I thought: in fact, this amendment is a bit of a crazy figure, because that hardness clause is what we have with the current legislation, with the status quo. So I still have doubts as to whether this amendment is a sensible route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u158	Did you share that amendment with the Minister or the officials?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u159	No, I'm still surprised how the Minister knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u160	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u161	Anyway, I don't want to go into that right now. We, too, were hectic to prepare, given the constantly changing agenda. So I'm assuming that that happened accidentally, because I always thought there was a hard wall between policy support and politics. But let's have that debate at another time. It did surprise me, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u162	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u163	However, at least I am going to discuss this, among other things with colleagues who have asked questions about the hardness clause, to see if I still have that amendment before the vote if or if I think: no, I simply have to vote against this bill; the hardness clause is actually the status quo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u164	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. Draft amendments are always confidential, I'm just saying. Nothing should ever be done about it. That's why I'm surprised. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Police officers see the bill as moral support in the back." This was already written by the previous Chief of Staff in the opinion on this bill in 2019. Since then, violence against agents has increased and become more serious and the perpetrators have become younger and younger. In the riots and assaults, teenagers and even a 11-year-old boy were arrested for sedition. Those aren't small facts. The examples that were put forward yesterday to get out of the community service ban must have felt like a stitch for many cops. The core is simply: do we consider community service to be an adequate punishment for violence in general, and in this case in particular, that is what the bill is about in the case of violence against aid workers? As far as PVV is concerned, it's all right and it's always been: you don't touch the helpers. Violence against them, no matter what, by anyone and in any situation, is punished by imprisonment; no exceptions! Violence is a violation of one's body and privacy; fundamental rights! As far as the PVV is concerned, it is also an attack on the safety of society in general. Let's also look at the current law. Reckoning or resisting an officer arresting you is already covered by the community service ban. Then why would that be different in the case of assault? Then where's the customization? As I said yesterday, I therefore come to the conclusion that the PVV welcomes the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u166	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u167	Mr. Chairman. Hands off emergency workers! Hands off journalists! And anyone who misbehaves deserves to be punished. But this bill doesn't increase the odds. This bill does not provide additional colleagues for the police officers or more appreciation in the financial sense for the agents or for the people in the care. They often have to fight for a reasonable collective agreement. This bill does not lead to more prevention, to more prevention of this kind of disgusting facts. And the assumption that community service is not a full sentence, I do not share. It just depends on how you fill it out: 240 hours of service for the benefit of society, cleaning police vehicles, bringing coffee and cake to people in care; I could find that a very nice, valuable punishment. The assumption that community service is something inferior and that you have to rule it out here, because that is what this proposal is doing, so I do not share it. Moreover, community service is proven to be more effective. The most important thing I still think is that punishment is customization. I don't think it's desirable for the judge to be restrained. Let me give you another example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u168	However, I would like to make a very enlightening point, because it is said here that community service is considered inferior and that community service is excluded. That is both evidently contrary to the whole treatment we have had. The community service is not excluded. It could still go hand in hand with a prison sentence. Only the bald, single community service is excluded. And when did Mr Van Nispen hear the cabinet say that community service is inferior?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u169	The whole law is called Law Extension community service ban. Thus, the number of cases in which bald community service is no longer imposed is increased. That's what this whole law-enforcement thing was all about. In my opinion, in the first period, but also now, and in interruptions, I have explained why I think that is very unwise and why I think that customization is so important. In many cases, that is not possible anymore. And even if that were only a single case, I still find that very undesirable. I come to that example. On Twitter, Judge Jos gives an account worth reading, by the way, the example of a slightly intellectually limited and alcohol-addicted woman with problems of aggression due to past abuse. She yelled at cops and finally pulled a cop on his arm when her boyfriend was arrested in that emotion. Wrong thing, she deserves punishment, but after a lot of hassle she accepts help and shelter. If you're in jail, you could lose that entire trajectory. That case is done with community service. I think such an example shows that you don't have to take one instrument from a judge's toolbox by removing it. A judge must be able to do justice. A judge must be able to ensure a just outcome. That is why I consider this proposal to be unwise. You need to make that customization possible, at least not truncated. Finally, Mr President, a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the event of a proper punishment, consideration should be given not only to retaliation but also to preventing repetition, protecting society and supporting the victim;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to increase the chances of violence against aid workers, as far as possible consistent and rapid punishment, to obtain mandatory mental health care and treatment for victims, and to support victims in obtaining adequate compensation and proper care and support in the processing of traumatic experiences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35528-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u170	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There will be an end to the barren community service today in the event of violence against aid workers and cops. I think this is good news. We have not been deaf to signals from society, to the call from society. As far as we are concerned, this should have gone further. That is why we are maintaining the amendments. Put the definition of the step forward or not when people are in the front line: the cabinet has it on several occasions in the explanatory statement. It is precisely journalists who report on the things that are happening, including in the riots, precisely those who help the supermarkets to enforce the rules and private security officers who help to enforce the rules that we have come up with here: I think they are absolutely and by definition on that front line and should therefore be perfectly covered by the scope of this bill. Nevertheless, I count my blessings. Thanks to the cabinet for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u172	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I would like to thank the Ministers for their response to the questions raised. Mr. Chairman. I cannot say that I am very satisfied with the outcome of the debate. Yes, I share Mr Van den Berge's view that it is a good thing that we all stressed here today and yesterday that violence against aid workers is absolutely unacceptable. We must reject that at all times. It is quite right that we should punish that more severely. The Christian Union agrees with that. But in the response of the Minister for Legal Protection, I really do miss a fundamental consideration. As Mr Van Nispen said in his interruption, this bill enables the Minister to serve community service in conjunction with one day in prison. He makes it possible to impose the sentence as a whole on a conditional basis, but excludes the possibility of combining that suspended sentence with community service or with behavioural rules and conditions. The Minister's argument against this is simply not valid. So I don't understand. The Minister fears that the character of retaliation will diminish. But tell me what's more rewarding. A prison sentence hanging over your head, all sorts of behavior conditions, maybe that ankle bracelet and not sitting but working, so a hefty work sentence: isn't that rewarded? So I don't understand. I know the Minister likes the line "punishment is punishment," but I really miss an eye for customization here, listening to the legislator's advisors. The Council of State says that this combination is possible, put this possibility in the court's toolbox. The evaluation that the Minister has had carried out under the community service ban Act, as we already know, indicates it as an option that we need. P.O.D. indicates it, judges report it. Everyone asks this because in individual cases you can do real justice and better prevent repetition. Mr. Chairman. I have only been more confirmed by the need for the amendment we have tabled. I therefore hope that this will be supported by the members of the House of Representatives, in order to make the legislative proposal more effective in practice and also more equitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u174	Mrs Helder has a short question for you, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u175	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we said it: Mrs Van der Graaf refers all the time to the advice of the judiciary. And she's always standing up for victims and so on, at least I know her, but I think that line will be broken if the victim is an aid worker. Because you are always talking about victims, but in this debate you mean the perpetrator, but not the person against whom the violence has been committed. Why do you keep that from me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u176	The very essence of this bill is that violence against aid workers is punished more severely. And that is a thought that the Christian Union can also support, as I have just mentioned. But I think that with the classes of the supplemental affair... Yesterday, Mrs Helder asked me about this too, and you did not think it right to put it in parallel, but I think it is right to put it in place, because it was pointed out that at the moment when we adopt laws that have no mercy, there are no exceptions, we still have to scratch our ears again. And that's what we're doing here today. We also said yesterday that this bill is not about answering the question of whether or not violence should be rejected. That's obvious. But this is about how things work out in the implementation. And if officers from the field, judges, the Council of State and the probation indicate "let's also effectively punish, and prevent those aid workers from being attacked again," then we must also offer that space. Not as a rule, but as an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u177	Yes. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u178	That comparison with the supplemental affair really doesn't go away. There was no room for customisation in the legislation, and here there is room for customization, which is limited a little bit, namely: a single, bald community service is excluded in the case of violence against aid workers. That's all it is. So that equation really doesn't work out at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u179	And that is why it is good to emphasise that with the amendment we are doing, we are not arguing for this bald, single community service in the case of violence against aid workers. No, we allow the combination of a conditional prison sentence with a behavioral condition, so that they can be combined with community service. That is the valve that is still lacking in this law in order to make it more equitable in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u180	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, an important legislative proposal: the protection of people with a public task; police and aid workers. You don't touch that, because if you don't, you don't just attack people in their lives who just do their job, but you also hinder aid once again. So it is, in fact, a double effect, and that is why it is absolutely unacceptable. And the idea behind this law, "that actually fits a prison sentence by definition," which we basically share as a SGP. We are going to consider very carefully for a while what we are doing with the amendment which also allows a suspended sentence in conjunction with community service. Whether that is a desirable option or not on balance, we are not quite sure yet. One point is important to us: violence is not only physical by definition. Violence can also be a threat or damage to property. Of course it all falls under criminal law, but when we talk about violence against people with a public role, I think that this spectrum of violence should be taken into account in its entirety. I would therefore like to commend the SGP amendment on this point to the attention of my fellow Members. We need to take care of that. I would like to thank the directors for answering the questions. I am making an exception which I am not grateful for and that is the answer to the question concerning the equipment of the boas, because the answer to that question has not taken place in my knowledge. I suspect that the minister concerned has thought "yes, but it should be much more at home in this afternoon's debate on riots." I would like to praise him for his forward-looking approach, but I would like to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u182	That's right. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. As the last speaker, I give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for answering the questions. Let us be clear, this bill is indeed a political signal for us. We believe that we, as legislators, should also be able to strike the stakes within which the case law takes place which should also be taken into account. Mind you, we do that nuanced, at least that's the intention. We are therefore not going along with all the amendments to extend or to do this or that; we are very reluctant to do so. We're sticking to the line of the bill. As it stands, we are not going along with Mrs Van der Graaf's amendment either, because we are actually getting it out of the legislative proposal that people simply need to have the message: if you are sitting on a cop with your hands or with others, then you have to shove. I'd like to table a motion on the journalists. I know that the Minister has made a commitment on this point, but I think it is so important that the Chamber should also give its opinion on this point, that I should table a motion. Mr President, it may seem incredible to you, but Mr Van Wijngaarden has also put his name under that motion. So it is together and in union that we act here. I am very pleased that I have understood from Mr Van Wijngaarden that at least the leader of the VVD will only make statements in his own policy area in the near future and not in what other policy area will give any political explanation of what is happening. With his name under this motion, I also assume that he agrees with me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that journalists are becoming increasingly vulnerable physically during their news gathering, but that this change in the law on the public service ban does not concern violence against journalists;]] [[whereas journalists play an essential role in our democratic rule of law, which is essential for them to be able to engage in news gathering without fear and threat;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate and, where possible, to promote the introduction of violence against journalists into the functioning of the public service ban and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Dam and Mr Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35528-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u184	Mr President, may I say one more thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u185	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u186	That is why I hope that the Minister for Legal Protection will say something about Mrs Helder's amendment in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u187	Brief question, Mrs Van der Graaf
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u188	Can I ask Mr Van Dam how confident he is in our rule of law and our judges that they are making good decisions? Mr Van Dam just said that he probably does not feel for the amendment that we tabled with many colleagues to argue in favour of the combination of probation and community service. Shouldn't we put that trust on the hands of the judges? How much confidence do Mr Van Dam and the CDA have in our judges?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u189	In a way, I find this an ugly question, because it suggests that I do not have confidence in our judges. Then my second question to Mrs Van der Graaf would be: did I give that impression in my handling of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u190	It will not have escaped Mr Van Dam that the drafting of the bill, as it has now been brought to the Chamber, leads to suspicion of justice and science towards the judges and that they are unable to reflect the feelings of society in their statements. That's how this bill is perceived in practice. That is why my question is: how much confidence does the CDA have in our case law that they are able to make the right balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u191	I said at the start of my second term that it is also a political point for us. We believe that, as legislators, we also have the role, the task and the ability to identify frameworks within which this takes place. This is of course without prejudice to the fact that these frameworks must be able to pass through the legal system of hoops. I've worked in that world for 19 years. I have zero ambition to have doubts about the integrity, the job concept and also the way judges do it. Research has been carried out into the degree of punishment that the Dutch criminal court pronounces. Well, they are, unlike the public image, very close to measure compared to other European countries. So on this point, I have zero doubts about the role of our justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u192	Good. You were ready, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u193	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u194	Thank you. We have come to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u195	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u196	Mr. Chairman. There are a few final questions. There have also been some shots taken on how heavy community service matters and to what extent that counts. Let me be clear: community service is also a serious punishment, but it is perceived differently from an unconditional custodial sentence. Of course, you can disagree, but if your punishment is that you're required to wash police cars, do you think that's appropriate for violence committed against cops? The cabinet believes that it is not. That's why we're proposing this bill. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a discussion about the combination of community service with a suspended sentence. I would like to stress once again, also in the direction of Mrs Van der Graaf, who came back to this point, that we are based on the existing community service ban, as is the case now for serious crimes of violence and crimes of violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u197	But that's enough and enough change, I think. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u198	I'm gonna let you provoke me, because I'm gonna need something straightened out. Of course, I did not claim that community service is an appropriate punishment for more serious cases of violence against aid workers. I only think, in principle, that the right punishment should be imposed by a judge and that in some cases 240 hours of useful service may feel heavier than one day of detention. That may be the difference, but I think it is actually unnecessary to look for these differences on this issue. It's how you see community service that matters to me. I believe that in some cases this can be a very useful and very serious punishment. For this reason, I believe that there is no reason to extend that community service ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u199	You've explained that enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u200	Yeah, but the minister's sketching a contradiction that I don't think is necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u201	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u202	We just don't agree. It happens. Then there was the question about Mrs Helder's amendment: what does this add to paragraph 2 in which there is injury? The amendment is based on an impairment of physical integrity. There are examples of impairment of physical integrity where injury does not occur automatically. Think, for example, of pushing an official into the ditch or inflicting pain on him. These are the forms that the amendment adds to what is already paragraph 2 to which the public service ban applies. In my view, they are in line with the rational behind this bill. Finally, the opinion on the motion for a resolution on item No. 17. I'm good with that. I'll leave the motion to the Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u203	Good. Thank you. We'll wait for the speaker chair to be cleaned. It's just helping. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u204	Mr. Chairman. I had one question, from Mr Bishop, which I had shifted from 'Deo voliente' to this afternoon, but I would like to give a quick hint of the veil, if I may. We are indeed doing a pilot on the equipment of boas. This will perhaps be discussed in greater detail this afternoon. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 18: I leave it to the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u205	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u206	We will vote on the bill, the amendments and the motions next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Members of Parliament.
