ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the debate on the procedure for curfew and the Temporary Law on restrictions in open air covid-19, Section 35732. We would start with the debate, but the answers have only been received to a large number of questions put by the Chamber yesterday. I have just called the Minister about this, and it is difficult for Members of Parliament to read the answers just before the debate. I understand that you spoke about this as spokesmen in committee and probably want to make a proposal. Mr Van Meenen is already ready. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u2	Yes, chairman, in my capacity as chairman of the committee. It is true what you say: the committee has just had a technical briefing and found that the answers to the questions were received at 10.45 a.m. It takes time to study them, so on behalf of the Members present there, and that was virtually complete, I would like to ask you to postpone the start of the debate to 12.30 p.m. today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u3	I'll see if anyone would mind. That is not the case. I'm glad the Minister of Justice and Security is here. I shall suspend the sitting until 12.30 p.m. and then we shall begin the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u4	The next item is the debate on the curfew and temporary law restrictions in the open air covid-19 (35732). I would, of course, like to welcome all the spokesmen. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice and Security. We were supposed to start at 11:00. Unfortunately, this was not possible because of a briefing, but also because of the fact that the answers reached the Chamber much later. I see Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u5	I would like to make an order proposal to declare this bill on curfew immediately controversial. I have two reasons for that. The first is that although the cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u6	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You don't have to give a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u7	Okay. Then I would like to propose that this curfew law be declared controversial and only debate today about the state of affairs and the curfew itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u8	Then I'm gonna see how the Chamber feels about that. Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u9	A very valid point. The curfew is unlawful in any case, but the fact that a outgoing cabinet goes so far in restricting our freedoms is inappropriate. So there is a great deal of support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u10	Support for this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u11	I suggest we all just have our own contribution. In doing so, we can put forward these kinds of thoughts and, if necessary, we can put them in motion. I think it's too comprehensive, it's asking a lot of debate to get rid of it this way. My proposal is that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen should explain this in her own term. We can then vote on the basis of motions and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u12	So no support for the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u13	No support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u14	All of these measures go far too far for a outgoing cabinet, so heartfelt support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u15	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u16	No support. I think Mr Van der Staaij has put it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u17	I also agree with what Mr Van der Staaij said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u18	No support, because we can take matters into our own hands today as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u19	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u20	Support, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u21	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, you have no majority. The vast majority therefore want to debate both curfew and temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u22	I'm going to the spokesperson's office now. I give the floor to Mr Wilders as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u23	Madam President. What a total failure. What an embarrassing mess. What an embarrassment for Prime Minister Rutte. What a sledgehammer for the credibility of his cabinet's corona policy in general and the curfew in particular. After months of ignoring all warnings that the curfew should not be introduced, the cabinet was flogged back by the amenities court the day before yesterday. The PVV has, as we know, always opposed the introduction of the mandatory curfew, because that measure is disproportionate and because the Cabinet has never been able to demonstrate the effects of this far-reaching freedom-limiting measure. Mr President, you may remember, but I have been very much interrupting Prime Minister Rutte in a Corona debate earlier. I pointed out to him that the underlying reports do not support his statement that curfew leads to 10% fewer infections. It's based on theoretical models, not facts. Moreover, it is only in connection with the single-person visit restriction. The comparison with France made by the cabinet is also not valid. Because that research also looks at a very wide range of measures in France and not just curfew. It's gossip, pure gossip. We've messed up a curfew when it comes to effectiveness. That's bad. The curfew is not proportionate and not proven effective based on the facts, but only based on theoretical models. Madam President. The Supreme Court shares that view for many reasons. One of the reasons is that at the same time as curfew the advice has been put in. I just said it was to receive no more than one person a day at home. Only if that measure was abolished along with the curfew would the number of infections increase by 10%, according to the government's forecast. But precisely that simultaneousness, so the amenities court says the PVV after "that doesn't happen every day before "" the image regarding the usefulness and necessity of that curfew significantly distorts." According to the judge, it makes "the state's argument that a curfew is inevitable, debatable and not very convincingly motivated." A truth like a cow. Others, such as the Council of State and colleague Van der Staaij, warned the Prime Minister about the improper use of the Act of extraordinary powers of civil authority, the Wbbbg. But those warnings also struck the cabinet in all arrogance in the wind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u24	I have never heard Mr Wilders so positive about judges and have never heard them quote as many times as in today's debate. That is a nice thing in itself, but I note that he has often been less positive and has spoken of judges in terms of 'fake courts', 'political processes' or also 'corruption'. Can I ask Mr Wilders to distance himself from that, now that he has once found a judge by his side with a position that he shares? Is he prepared to acknowledge that he has completely failed in this respect and has simply offended the judiciary in that regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u25	No. I'll be right back, to balance it out, to talk about another judge, which I'm saying a little less friendly about. So I serve you at your beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u26	I am very pleased with that answer and I was afraid it was coming. But then Mr Wilders admits exactly what the problem is with his position on the judiciary. If there is a judgment that Mr Wilders is coming out, he is happy with it. Then he'll back it up and he'll be fine. And isn't it convenient for him? Then the judiciary is corrupt and full of D66 judges. That is, of course, the hypocrisy at the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u27	It's exactly the opposite. My party is wrongly accused of acting unfairly. Again, that is not the case at all. It now appears that even the judiciary recognises that this cabinet and this prime minister, supported by a party like D66, have acted unlawfully to this day. We'll see where the appeal leads tomorrow. But people are illegally locked up at home to this day. So you must not lecture me; you must take a good look in the mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u28	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u29	Okay, Mr. Chairman. As I said, others pointed out the illegality and improper use, and those warnings also struck the cabinet in the wind. Mr. Chairman. So that is the image we now have of this cabinet: a failing Prime Minister who doesn't care about all the advice he doesn't like. A prime minister who does not admit his failure, but at his press conference on Tuesday in response to the ruling of the welfare court a few times said that he would come up with a bill "in abundance" to close the legal gap. Abounding. After all, it is unthinkable that he is wrong. I wonder how the Prime Minister knows that this is abundant? Does he have any knowledge of the verdict tomorrow? Have any appointments been made with the court? Does the Prime Minister know that tomorrow the judge is going to say he's going to be right? If he doesn't, how the hell can he use the word "in abundance"? "Abundance" means you have a law that you don't really want to use, so you actually know what the verdict is. I think it's incredible. Mr. Chairman. We have seen today that insatiable arrogance of Prime Minister Rutte, a man who permeates until he gets what he wants. A man who, as we saw a few weeks ago, here in the Chamber after his cabinet fell, said he is now "mightier than ever." He said it with a smile, but he said it. He's "mightier than ever." The Prime Minister's own words. Not only does pride occur, but also after the fall. Prime Minister Rutte: the man who managed to make a new bill within a few hours and get an emergency apple, while an average lawyer of an ordinary citizen has to wait for it for at least a few weeks, if not a few months. How wretched must that be for all those victims of the premium affair who have been waiting for years to recover from the injustice that the same Rutte has done to them. People waiting and waiting for financial compensation. Or take the people in Groningen who are waiting for years for a concession, for a law, for finance, for money. And Mr. Rutte isn't home, he doesn't give home, he laughs at people right in the face. But is he in some kind of trouble himself? He'll make a bill in five hours. And in four hours, he arranges for the court to give a ruling. Mr. Chairman. Rutte only recovers his own misery as a matter of urgency. The common man and woman, from Groningen to the supplemental affair, those people, can get it back from him. They can wait. Then Rutte doesn't call the State Council for an emergency opinion. Then he won't come up with an emergency bill. Then there's no judge available to deal with the case in a couple of hours. Mr President, this stinks from all sides. And why did Prime Minister Rutte send his boyfriend Van Dissel to the court in order to hold a substantive story in front of the President of the Court, with whom he was previously in a regional disciplinary college? I thought it was a non-material hearing. Why did he send Van Dissel there to keep a substantive story? It doesn't usually happen. What kind of rules are these when it comes to the Prime Minister? And that judge, Mrs. Tan-de Sonnaville, who told the representative of Virus Truth that she could evict him, was most kind to Professor Van Dissel. She said, and I quote, "It's time for Professor Van Dissel to go home." According to Mrs. Tan-de Sonnaville. And, of course, Mr President, how could it be otherwise: those ladies and gentlemen of the court bowed, like this President of the Court, within half an hour for Prime Minister Rutte and, at least for the time being, gave him his will. Hopefully this will be different tomorrow, in the real substantive treatment of the appeal. This drammer, which we should call Prime Minister, is assisted by two important advisers. On the one hand, Minister Hugo de Jonge, who still cannot spell the word "vaccinating" and after six weeks of vaccination still has to start voluntarily vaccinating people under 80. On the other hand, he is here today, Minister Grapperhaus, also a very important advisor to the Prime Minister. Former top attorney of the Amsterdam law firm Allan & Overy, but as Minister of Justice not yet able to choose the right law to introduce that terrible curfew, so millions of Dutch people have been illegally deprived of their freedom in recent weeks after nine o'clock in the evening. Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow will be the substantive examination of the appeal by the court. If the court were to uphold the ruling of the court of Appeal and declare the curfew unlawful, I would like today to hear the guarantee of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice that all tens of thousands of fines have been paid and that the fines already paid will be repaid. Whatever he does with this new law: unlawful is unlawful and pay back those fines! Mr. Chairman. I would like the Prime Minister and his two advisers to speed up the voluntary vaccination of Dutch people as much as they are rushing to take away our freedoms. Because the Netherlands is still dangling at the bottom when it comes to the voluntary vaccination of people. We are still one of the slowest countries in Europe. Of all 27 EU countries, we are in place 24. Place 24, it's too embarrassing for words! What amateurs there in box-K! Another reason for the PVV to be against the mandatory curfew. Apart from being an disproportionate measure the effects of which have not been demonstrated, the only really effective means to combat corona is to vaccinate our population much more voluntarily. And we're certainly not signing a curfew to compensate for the failure of this cabinet. Mr President, I will conclude. The important question today is whether the Chamber will once again act like a lion or finally punish the lightness with which this cabinet deals with the States-General and with our freedom. I sincerely hope that today, as a Chamber, we will stand as lions for the freedom of the Dutch and reject the mandatory curfew, which has not actually been shown to lead to fewer infections. At least the PVV will vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u31	Madam President. In times of crisis, in times like ours, with a virus that we are not yet rid of, a lot of people demand that the government, political unity, be united, that there is absolute clarity about the course that is going on, that choices are made in caution and with conviction. Mr. Chairman. In this context, it is, of course, very annoying and confusing that we are now dealing with judicial rulings, different political debates and different legislative processes on curfew. A lot of people say, "I can't follow it anymore, I don't understand what it's like anymore. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SGP Group, I would also like to make it very clear today that we understand that it is a difficult time for a government too and that we understand that. There are still choices to be made that you always don't know are the best choices. We understand that there is always uncertainty. So we understand the complexity of these choices, and we understand that mistakes can also be made. On the other hand, however, I would also like to say here as a representative of the people: this consensus is important, but it is also our role, as representatives of the people, as controllers of the government and as co-legislators, not only to nod in what the government puts forward, but also to review critically, especially when there is a question of restricting fundamental rights. Is that indeed carefully considered? Haven't there been less far-reaching possibilities left untapped? That's how I was standing here earlier, and that's how I'm standing here today. We have this debate, and there is the consternation and confusion that we are talking about. It has to do with the fact that two days ago, the judge gave the cabinet a firm blow. The court ruled very clearly that the justification of the institution and the extension of the curfew did not go well. The court ruled that the use of the Emergency Powers Act is intended for exceptional circumstances such as that acute dike breach. I would also like to stress that this is more than legal hair-clubbing, because it is precisely in the court's judgment that it is being asked: what is the difference between appealing to an emergency law on the one hand and coming to the Chamber with an independent law on the other? In the latter case, so it comes to the Chamber with an independent law, both the Lower House and the Upper House have to give their opinion first and there is an opinion from the Council of State. Only then will we introduce such a measure. Now that has not happened and there was no separate legislative path. At the moment, for example, the Upper House has still not been able to pronounce on a curfew, which has been in force for quite some time. It will be clear that the SGP Group is uncomfortable and questioning the route through that Emergency Power Act, the route chosen. My group has also expressed this in debates here before. It will be clear that by doing so, we share the judgement of the Court of Justice that this was not and is not the right route. I therefore ask the Minister for Justice and Security why he still wants to go on this path. Isn't it getting very confusing to actually bet on two horses again? If the government says it's better to choose to change that corona law, so the Temporary Law measures covid-19, why not choose that route and stop that other route? About that last route, the judge said, "Don't do that." The Council of State has also been critical of this. And also from this Chamber there have been sounds about it, among others from myself, where they said: that is not the royal way? Mr. Chairman. I also noticed that it took a lot to get the government really on that route of that corona law. Because even after that ruling by the interim court, the government initially opted for a law other than that corona law. My question is why? Just for all the transparency and clarity, I don't understand why there's been so long numberd and hesitated to choose this route. If I understand the Minister correctly, he says he is aware of the particularly profound nature of that curfew. Shouldn't that be a reason, if you choose to allow a curfew, to provide additional safeguards in the Corona Act? It doesn't all have to be arranged in the same way as washing hands in that corona law, does it? Even as an illustration of that question: why wasn't the route of this corona law chosen equally? I see a slight irony in what the Council of State writes about the continuing law, the law established on the basis of that emergency power law. On the question "why do you choose the corona law now?" The government replied: "Emergency legislative pathways do not provide the best guarantee for an informed process and result because of the haste with which they need to be completed." Well, we've got a super-prosperity procedure now! So the government actually says: otherwise it would be too much of a rush job. I understand that, but because it wasn't chosen for so long and it is now, it's now a rush job. We heard this morning in the technical briefing: perhaps we should arrange something else, but we need to run now. I find it difficult to run away from such an important measure. Why is that even necessary? Is it still not wiser to wait for that, now that the case is under the judge, my question is to the cabinet? Mr. Chairman. That is about the chosen legal route, in which I would like to stress that the question of whether the First Chamber is explicitly involved in the process is not a question of legal hairslapping. This also has to do with the relationship between government and parliament. You can see it now: now we have a debate with speaking time that fits the seriousness of the law and the depth of the measure. Last week we had a very short debate on whether Parliament could say yes to the extension. I believe that, with a legislative process, we are doing much more justice to the far-reachingness of curfew. And yes, I also know that a lot of people say: I think that curfew is a good measure; I can live with it. I also know that virologists say: we are pleased that this measure has been introduced, because it helps to reduce the third wave that we expect. That's not bullshit. That can count and weigh. Then I come back to the role of Parliament: at the same time, the assessment of proportionality has always been an important point for us. But government, you have a responsibility of your own to weigh the following things over and over again. What exactly is the health gain that such a measure will bring about on the one hand? And what is the damage it brings and what movements do you limit that do not pose any risk of infection at all on the other side? That is the question of weighting. Mr. Chairman. I can also see that the interim court of Appeal has actually said that proportionality is also questionable. I read that the Council of State also said, when the government came up with a bill yesterday: government, would you like to go into that proportionality again? It is therefore an uncomfortable fact for my group that these major questions about the proportionality of this measure are still on the table. Isn't it too easy for the cabinet to shoot into mode to say that now that the judge has taken it down, should we in any case find a different legal basis, because we must continue along this road? Just when there are doubts about proportionality, would it not be wise, wise to consider it quietly? In the light of these critical notions, could not other measures be effective? Could the same health benefits be achieved with other less far-reaching measures? Is there now, for example, a stronger, more targeted approach to parties that contribute to this distribution? Has there been any thought on how to reduce the risk of infection in work situations? Has there been any thought as to how the formation of certain social bubbles among young people can contribute to a reduction in contamination? And I am well aware, and I want to have said that again, that it is a difficult balance, that governing is looking ahead, which must also be for a longer period of time. All experts say, "Watch out, it could just be an exponential increase." You can't ignore that lightly. At the same time, however, we see that other measures may also have an impact. Finally, I have another question, which I would like to leave to my term. I still see a number of sensible amendments addressing a number of criticisms of the current design. The question I would like to raise specifically is whether, in this difficult legal and political situation, the possibility of looking, as with the visitation scheme, at the possibility of recommending curfew, or any form of curfew, as an urgent measure, has been considered. All kinds of urgent measures have always been present in the palette. In this case, could that not be a solace? Mr. Chairman. Closing and concluding: my group appreciates the fact that the government has chosen a route through the Corona Act too long. That's the royal road. We still have doubts, including the precise design of the law, but the main question remains the proportionality of this measure at the moment, precisely in a situation where we seem to see a cautious improvement in the virological situation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u32	There is no denying that Mr Van der Staaij raised the question at the time of the debate on curfew as to whether the Extraordinary Powers Act is the way to go. He is right to raise all kinds of other questions, but I would like to focus on that. At that time, I was triggered and I also made a call with a number of state-of-the-art lawyers who said to me: it is a way to defend it. I note that in confirming that law, the SGP Group also raised a number of questions on this issue, but I believe that the SGP Group, too, has finally gone that way, has voted in favour of it. I can't imagine if you say anything here, you wouldn't be investigating it. Have you also stumbled upon these fluctuating opinions in the legal field?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u33	Moreover, we did not support this route. We voted against the curfew and the extension, and criticism of this chosen route was an important part of that. Yes, I've also stumbled upon it. We're both lawyers. That there are always different views. What struck me was that there was a discussion as to whether that route of emergency powers was the right way forward, and that there was consensus that the corona law was always the right route, provided that it was properly designed. This merely highlights my question as to why the cabinet did not choose to do so from the outset.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u34	I'm glad to hear that. It is our job to make good legislation. That happens not only here, but outside the Chamber, and then you start talking to people from the field. I can only say that I have noticed that opinions are very divided about whether the Wbbbg was a law that covered this, or that it had to be separate in the Public Health Act. I also share the view that everyone who comes home from the curfew will find it, but I would like to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u35	Perhaps in response to this, and thank you for this point: frankly, this point was always heavy for my group, because last year we took the lead in saying: government, stop relying on a special emergency regulation, ensure proper, normal legislation that passes through the Second and First Chambers. Actually, that came back to this discussion: we talked extensively about a corona law, the toolbox with which the cabinet could get out of the way. We have been thinking about all kinds of safeguards that go with them, and they are suddenly not in this way when you call on a completely different law again. That is why I still have my doubts, not only about the legality of the route, but also about the choice of that route. For historiography it would be useful to hear this with clearer arguments from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u36	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u37	Mr. Chairman. Without failing colleagues, I think we should keep an eye on the main objective. Because in all the legal wrangling around the curfew, we must not forget that we are dealing with a serious pandemic. That was also the thrust of my reaction towards Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Just because the Cabinet is a missionary doesn't mean that the Chamber is a missionary. Here in the Chamber we can decide whether or not to pass laws and whether or not to achieve the desired goals. We're dealing with a very serious pandemic. I was struck by a message from three major funeral companies who reported that last December and January they had 1,000 funerals and cremations together more than last year around this time. That is not even a covering figure for the whole of the Netherlands. But let it work on you: that's 20% more. That also shows me why many Dutch think that the curfew should be a handy instrument. In response to what Mr Van der Staaij just said, the following. He asked why no urgent advice? If one thing is clear from the OMT report, it is that people think that is a much more radical measure and that it is less important. When the question of the effectiveness of this measure comes up, you can see that at least the investigation shows that this urgent advice is not being followed up as much as the obligatory curfew. That should also make us think about what we should or should not do. I am, of course, against any prohibition that is not necessary, but in order to ensure that one person's freedom does not ultimately lead to health damage for another, I choose to restrict freedom. Curfew leads to dilemmas. These dilemmas have to do with protection, with the precautionary principle that we have. That has to do with what it means to the rest of the population. Those objections are somewhat greater than the objections to the legal suspension of curfew, despite the fact that, last time, in the debate on the extension, I also said that the life expectancy of men fell by nine months in the last year. This also means that we are dealing with a profound pandemic, but fortunately it does not affect the sobriety of many Dutch people. Because I am also getting a little tired of all those stories as if a dictatorship were now established here. When I look at what is happening in other countries, it has effects there, but then it is much stricter in the United Kingdom than here. The same also applies to France, although France has allowed some fun shopping and only limited the number of people in large supermarkets. This has not helped both countries in terms of economic growth, but it does mean that the measures there are much heavier than they are here. So I'd like some sobriety. Mr. Chairman. This also means, however, that a large majority of Dutch people are not against curfew as one of the measures to combat the epidemic. Of course, a proper legal framework is important. Then I must say that it is now the second time that we have discussed this. The Christmas days of a limited number of Members of Parliament were characterised by an emergency law which covered travellers on organised transport. Even then, the wrong instrument was chosen. It was killed at the canton court and the Chamber had to come back from recess to make sure that an emergency law closed a hole. Even then they didn't choose the royal road, so to speak. What lies here today is much more the royal road than what we got before. That brings me to the conclusion that for the second time a legal error of assessment has been made in the department. The first one, partly because of the Christmas days, has been ignored by the general public, but not this one. That also means undermining the basis of support, which the cabinet can count on. This undermines the acceptance in society of all measures. Then there is the question of proportionality. We have asked questions in the written preparation to find out a little more. As I said, we have been asked about the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Belgium. In fact, there is hardly any mention of this. This brings me to the question of the extent to which other departments have been involved. It was noted that the hundredth report of the OMT was available, but that hundredth report of the OMT is not about this. However, the OMT has always indicated in all technical briefings that Google data is available. I would like to know what changes the setting of curfew has led to. In the answers we get no further than: the number of movements decreased after 14 December, but not as strong as at the first time, in April last year. It would be simple to quote simply; you know me, I'm careful with algorithms to determine how much less movement there is, how many people are actually affected by the setting of curfew and whether that has also led to more or less movements during the day. I would therefore like to receive an answer from the government, because it can contribute to an answer to the question of whether this is a proportionate means and therefore also fits in the context of 'the end justifies the means'. I understand that we all want to know what the precise effect is, but I always think the following. Last year we had the commemoration of 75 years of freedom, 75 years of no war. Then 50 years ago we could have abolished defence, because we no longer have a war. Of course, things are not that simple, and that is also true here. What's the contribution? I admit it, we could do much more in other areas, with urgent advice. But the urgent opinions are no longer working. That is a problem in our group's view. The realization that we all have to fight this, to keep it in those terms, is greater in one group than in the other. Mr. Chairman. If there are doubts about the legal qualities in the Department of Justice and Security, I think the Minister has another small problem, and then small in quotes. Is it true that the police forces of the big cities, such as Rotterdam, have congratulated Mr Engel, when it comes to a competition between rioters and the police, in which the opponent must be congratulated after the end of the game? I don't think so. Is it not simply a question of undermining the corona policy we are all trying to pursue? Mr. Chairman. I come to a more fundamental question, which is about the role of the First Chamber. Thanks to this law, the First Chamber will now have the opportunity to discuss the law and the settlement. However, if there is to be an extension, or if later, after the instrument has been abolished, it turns out that we need it again in a third or a fourth wave, then the question is whether the First Chamber should not be more specifically involved. I know that compromises have been made in the adoption of the law. But would it not be advisable to give the First Chamber a clearer role in the decision-making process on these kinds of restrictions, which go against fundamental rights? I'm not talking about all the limitations; it's not about washing my hands or anything. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. As far as we are concerned, the problem lies in the vaccination strategy. Because the vaccination strategy, which does not give priority to the vaccination of vulnerable people in accordance with the advice of the Health Council, but gives plenty of opportunity to other intruders, ensures that it will last longer for this group and that the 80-plussers will not be helped until April.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u38	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u39	Mr. Chairman. It is almost impossible to understand how much effort this cabinet is making to restrict our freedom, to keep us Dutch trapped in a strange game of measures, which can be proven to have little or no influence on the spread of viral diseases such as flu or corona. It all started with the one and a half meter rule, where even the World Health Organisation advised only 1 meter. Jaap van Dissel referred to the one-and-a-half meter rule as "arbitrary," but the impact on SMEs was disastrous. The same applies to mouth caps. All the experts lasted ten months: mouth caps didn't work. In fact, with long-term use of mouth caps, there is a high risk of bacterial infections. Yet we were given a duty to protect our mouths that turned the Netherlands into a muzzled community. The World Health Organization indicated that lockdowns are not the right means, because the collateral damage is much greater than the positive effects; not only the economic collateral damage, but also the social, psychological and medical collateral damage. Nevertheless, this cabinet decided to set up one of the strictest lockdowns in the world, with all its consequences. Companies go on the bottle massively, years of hard work are destroyed, pension pots are used to pay the bank and children's savings accounts are plundered. And don't talk to me about the support measures, because if you get any support, that's a drop in the ocean. I wonder how Mr Rutte and Mr Grapperhaus would feel if they had been a barber, or gym holder, or catering entrepreneur. I wonder if they had been sitting here so quietly and whether they would not have rebelled at some point, in opposition to a government that destroys everything you've built. Mr. Chairman. Students see the most beautiful years of their lives evaporate and spend their time in solitude. I do not understand, however, that this well-thought-out group, which has been hit hard for nothing, has still not occupied the Virgin House. By the way, you also hear from many older people that they prefer not to be protected in this way. The sacrifice that young people have to make from this government has also become unacceptable to them. The turning point is how children are treated. This cabinet seriously wants to push our children into the noses every day, put children in group quarantine, vaccinate children and let children walk around school with mouth caps. Kids don't die of flu. Kids don't die of corona. This cabinet is killing our children. How far are we gonna let this cabinet go? Perhaps I should ask Mr Rutte and Mr Grapperhaus that question. I would like to hear from both gentlemen how far they are prepared to go to damage our children for a virus that does not pose any risk to themselves, for a virus which, by the way, does not pose any danger to healthy people under 65 years of age. Mr. Chairman. We are talking again today about curfew, because this cabinet was unable to shape its senseless and harmful measures in a correct legal way. And who should be honored: it was Mr Van der Staaij who indicated this in the previous debate. The Forum for Democracy is on the line that the curfew is such a terrible, unnecessary restriction of our freedom that the legal framework is irrelevant to us. For whether the measures in the Extraordinary Powers Act find civil authority, the so-called Wbbbg, their basis, or in any other law, it is and remains an unacceptable violation of our freedom. But the fact remains that a huge legal blunder has been committed here. A blunder that fits perfectly into the long line of corona blunders of this cabinet, from the corona app to the source and contact research and from being unable to implement a vaccination program to PCR-gate. Van der Staaij was right. The Wbbbg, in which the curfew was arranged between two frikandells, was not the right vehicle. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, there are still people fighting for our freedom. I do so here in Parliament, others fight under the supervision of Lady Justitia and with tremendous success, for which I congratulate you. The court has rightly held that the chosen construction is incorrect. That's a hell of a shame. The cabinet has abused a law that is not intended to impose a curfew. Mr. Chairman. I'm not going too far on the turbo-weapon. I found it a particularly unpleasant experience to see the unfriendly and biased behaviour of the judge in question. The question of what role Jaap van Dissel had there in a non-material treatment also needs further explanation. But I assume that the judiciary has sufficient self-cleaning power. Mr. Chairman. In the context of curfew, it is important to read carefully the considerations of the amenities court. I quote: "The court of provision is of the opinion that there are at least major doubts about the factual justification by the State of the need for the curfew measure. At the same time, the pandemic has been going on for almost a year and it has been recognised that the pressure on care is currently less than it has been before. Even when care previously turned to maximum capacity, a curfew was not considered necessary. In particular, the State has pointed out that the occurrence of mutations of the virus, which appear to be more contagious than the original virus, is currently of great concern. The question is whether that alone is sufficient to establish a far-reaching means such as curfew. With the exception that the information on the extent to which the mutations are more contagious than the original virus seems to have been adjusted downwards, it is currently not certain that the mutations will lead to an unsustainable situation. This does not mean that the government should not be preparing for new developments, but this is very important before introducing a far-reaching limitation as a curfew must be clear that no other less far-reaching measures are open anymore and that the introduction of curfew will actually have a substantial effect." Mr. Chairman. The Wbbbg may no longer be used by the judge, but the considerations are also of great importance for the law that is now before us, the Temporary Law limitation reside in the outdoor covid-19. My question is therefore: can the Minister indicate whether there are any other less far-reaching measures? Can the Minister here today show that the curfew actually has a substantial effect? I would like an answer with numbers. How has the effect of curfew been measured so far? Does this match those bizarre RIVM models? Mr. Chairman. The lockdown and curfew have also been introduced under threat of an explosion of infections that would result from the life-threatening British variant. Now I have an English mother myself, so I have always called myself the "British variant," but that aside. Shall I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u40	I said, good to know, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u41	That's good. But the British variant is everywhere. And it's less dangerous than you think. Here is a compliment to journalist Maarten Keulemans, who wrote an article in de Volkskrant about the 170,000 infections that never came, because the OMT caused fear, with a scenario in which the care would no longer be able to cope and ambulances would line up for the hospitals. But they forgot to mention that an R-value of 1.6 was mistakenly assumed and the assumption that 100% of the virus in the Netherlands already consisted of the British variant. A lockdown and curfew were then introduced by Mr Rutte and Mr De Jonge. They wrongly assumed that 170,000 infections were a realistic scenario. Now that we know this, now that we know the actual figures, maybe they can just admit this mistake. On February 2, Prime Minister Rutte said that the British mutation accounted for two thirds of all infections in the Netherlands. Where the hell did that number come from? On 9 February, RIVM stated that it had estimated that this was 53.7% on 2 February. Was this a measurement, or another assessment based on such a bizarre model of the RIVM? How do you explain the difference with the numbers that Prime Minister Rutte mentioned? It gets worse on February 16th. Then the RIVM recalibrates its estimate to 47.6%. How is this possible? Is this another model? Was anything measured? What impact has this had on the measures? With regard to the British variant, we can in any case conclude that it is much less serious than it was initially adopted. As Professor Pierre Capel states, he is "perhaps a bit more contagious, but probably less virulent." Once again, the Netherlands suffers from bad models of the RIVM, which scares everyone unnecessarily and makes this cabinet wrong decisions on the wrong grounds. Can the Prime Minister explain to me what is still the basis for curfew with the current figures? The judge refers to the proportionality of the measure in his judgment. Can the Minister explain to me how, in the light of the declining contagion rates and the negligible effect of curfew, this measure can still pass the proportionality test? Mr. Chairman. In the present law there is an exemption for mayors. Can the Minister explain why? Does this mean that a frightened mayor with this law has an extra easy-to-use tool to impose a curfew on his or her citizens? Mr. Chairman. The duration of curfew rules based on this new law is also a problem. In such an incredible violation of human freedom, it is not strange to limit time. The Forum for Democracy is against curfew in any form, but if it comes because of a large majority, we would prefer this law to lapse automatically after, for example, two weeks. The amendment in question has been tabled. I saw that there is another amendment which speaks in three weeks' time. That looks good. Mr. Chairman. The legal hair clover is not the problem. The real problem is that the curfew was introduced at all, with great support from the various parties in this Parliament. The VVD, the CDA, D66 and all other left-wing parties supported both the establishment of the curfew and its extension. These parties will now support this new curfew, which is steered by the Second and First Chambers under steam and boiling water. It is a freedom-limiting measure that is unprecedented. It is a measure which mainly affects young people, who have been in social isolation for more than a year now. It is also a measure which has no effect and therefore is not necessary to prevent the spread of viruses. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis raises more questions. The basis for the measures has disappeared and the cabinet is blundering. The damage to large groups in society is enormous. There are now several promising initiatives in society. Doctors, scientists, economists, engineers and young people oppose this unnecessary crisis. I mention in this context Virus Truth, Recovery-NL, Doctors Covid Collective and Women for Freedom. Let us hope that the cabinet will finally listen to what lives in society. But this cabinet has done so much damage in the past year that we also believe that it should be held accountable for this. On behalf of the Democracy Forum, I will therefore request a parliamentary inquiry in the second term. Of course, we will vote against this pointless and disproportionate curfew law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u43	Mr. Chairman. Honorable to whom credit is due: it was the SGP Group that felt at an early stage that the legal basis chosen by the cabinet for curfew could lead to legal questions. A sign on the wall for the legal setback in the interim proceedings that we are dealing with now. The question raised by the SGP at the time is now fully on the table in a so-called turbo-weapons apple that will serve tomorrow. The fact that there is an ongoing legal procedure requires respect for the judicial judgment that is now under way. The question whether or not the law with that strange abbreviation Wbbbg can be accepted as the basis for the curfew lies before the judge. If the judge says to the State on Friday that the basis chosen at the time should have been different, that is a fact in our rule of law that the legislator has to deal with. But in the crisis we are now in, we should not wait and see what the judge may or may not do, but we should act and stand up. This turbo-weapons law is an example of that. The previously chosen basis in the Wbbbg contains emergency powers for exceptional circumstances where there is no time to lose. That was and has been mentioned in our view. With the emergence of the more virulent and aggressive British mutant of the COVID-19 virus, there was and is not one, but two life-threatening epidemics in the Netherlands. The situation is not yet under control. Only with a comprehensive package of robust measures was and is it still possible to prevent the life-threatening overload of our healthcare system. It was and is as if a much too heavy truck came to drive over a dike that is only suitable for passenger cars. The dike might not have been able to break through, but you knew that if that truck weren't rerouted, the dike would fail. The truck had to take a longer and slower route, so that we can strengthen our dikes in the meantime. You can't get it much more urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u44	You can finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u45	I was at the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u46	I am a little surprised, because I hear that the British variant is more virulent. I wonder where that was read and where that came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u47	I think there's RIVM briefings here almost every week. I'm not gonna be an epidemiologist or a virologist myself. I base myself on expert advice. That is what the cabinet is doing; that is what it has to do as far as I am concerned. They say we're dealing with a threat even greater than the one we've already faced. So he's gonna be okay again. While we're standing here, we're getting reports of other variants. It is therefore a fact that the situation is not yet under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u48	We can argue about that, but I think you are confusing two concepts, because the technical briefings indicated that the RIVM's assessment was that this variant, the British variant, was more contagious, but it was never said that it would be more virulent. That's a big difference. In fact, the experts say that a virus is often less virulent when it comes to mutation. I don't know if it was your intention, but I think you're confusing these two concepts of infectiousness and virulence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u49	Again, I'm not gonna play epidemiologist or virologist here. I think that's happening way too much already. What I am in favour of is that here we certainly dare to rely on the people who work day and night in health care and RIVM. They say: boys, beware, you're playing with fire; the Netherlands, beware, you can't live above your standards by thinking now "it's not that bad and let it blow" because that would be dangerous and we shouldn't do that. I trust those people. They indicate that the situation is not under control. That's the fact that we're standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u50	I suggest you move on. Oh, Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u51	Of course, I fully agree with Mr Van Wijngaarden: we are trying to combat a crisis. It only helps if the gentlemen in trade-K and also Mr Van Wijngaarden know what the facts are. It is a fact that the British variant is not more virulent, but it is estimated that it is more contagious; I admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u52	I think it's all wonderful, but I'm almost laughing that I'm being taken here by Forum about the facts, because I heard Mr Baudet here screaming that it was a flu virus and that it was actually a flu. Then I invited him to take a look at an ICU and talk to a pulmonary doctor. So don't come and lecture me about facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u54	On 19 January, the experts in the OMT therefore said to the cabinet: intervene now. That's what the Cabinet did, and rightly so. On 23 January there was a curfew, with which 118 Members of Parliament agreed after the end. Anyone who agreed to it, of course, did so with the greatest reluctance. All 150 Members of Parliament are unanimous in that. But still, we are back here again and unfortunately the situation is similar to the situation a few weeks ago. The British variant is still engaged in an advance and a takeover. That makes curfew unabated. The tragedy of all measures is that if the measures work, the impression may soon arise that they are all not so bad. But the fact that the ic's can still handle it is not because the virus is not so dangerous, but because the measures we have taken against that virus have some effect. The same goes for curfew. Of course, no one really is for curfew. The battle with each other over whether or not a curfew also distracts from the real battle. The VVD is convinced that we are going to win that battle with large-scale vaccinations and temporary rotten measures like our weapons. We are now also the country of 17 million amateur virologists. This way we keep each other sharp, and that also makes the Netherlands. But in the meantime, let's not forget that we're not each other's enemies. There's only one enemy, and that's the virus. With vaccines, hope and discipline, we can and will control that virus and the thousands of mutants that belong to it. Last week I saw images of the home Beth Juliana in Israel, where many Dutch and former Dutch elderly live. Israel is honoring its name as Promised Land at the moment. Older people could sit there without mouth caps and without fear, eat together, see their children and grandchildren again and, above all, touch each other. That is the freedom we all want in the Netherlands and we give it to everyone. Everyone's exhausted and everyone's done, but right now it's a matter of holding on. Now that we're above our standards, we're gonna have to pay dearly. That is why it is good that the cabinet prepares all the scenarios. That's how it's supposed to be in a crisis. My colleague Hayke Veldman has already made a point about the vaccination strategy. So we are not going to gamble that tomorrow's verdict, when it comes tomorrow, is that the old legal basis can be. As far as we're concerned, we're already setting up this law. The VVD will support them. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to stress that this whole situation makes it clear how important a clear and useful state emergency law is. That is why I call for a review of state emergency law. The missionary status of the cabinet does not have to stand in the way of preparing for this and initiating the necessary reflection and research work. I read in the note on the report that we are working on it. But of course, a lot of things are being worked on. The Sagrada Família in Barcelona is also being worked on for a long time. So I would like a little more explanation from the cabinet: how is it being worked on, with whom and with what timetable? I am not asking for a legislative proposal, but I am asking for the necessary thinking and research to be initiated in accordance with Mr Van Dam's motion, among others. Moreover, state emergency law is now linked to the fight against the corona epidemic, a subject on which the cabinet may consider itself missionary. So please have a reaction and a commitment on this point. Mr President, I will conclude. I do not run away in any way from the fact that the judgment in the first instance, of the interim court, was simply a setback. But in my opinion, setbacks are part of life. What defines us as politicians, but also as people, is how we deal with these setbacks. If there's one thing that belongs to the Netherlands, it's that you take down setbacks. I think the Netherlands is almost built on setbacks. Otherwise we would never have won the battle against the water and we would never have been able to build a land below sea level. In the end, it's about taking down setbacks. Who falls, gets up and moves on. That's a hundred times as far as magnifying each other's setbacks. I also expect that with that attitude we're going to beat the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u55	Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD just indicated that all 150 Members of Parliament would rather not have that curfew and were unanimous in it. When I listen to Mr Van Wijngaarden like that, I doubt that. In fact, in the past week, the amenities court destroyed the curfew measure. Now we come together as a matter of urgency to discuss a new legal basis with each other. The VVD is going to agree to this, while we see that the arguments put forward by the Court of Appeal are actually just in the explanatory memorandum to the current legislative proposal. What makes this law different from the judgment of the judge who annulled the curfew measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u56	It is indeed, as I have said, a necessary piece of shit, but it is also a measure that nobody really wants. But I'm afraid it's necessary. The whole point of this law, which is also what the judgment saw over it, is the legal basis. This law changes the legal basis, in case it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u57	I get the impression that Mr Van Wijngaarden did not properly study the verdict. The judgment also talks about proportionality. Are these measures working? The Council of State has indicated: well, cabinet, you have to do your best to put that proportionality into the bill. We see that a number of paragraphs with references to the OMT opinion are then included in the explanatory memorandum. That's exactly what the welfare court has cut from. So I ask him again: what is different to the judge's ruling than the explanatory statement that we have seen in the bill we are discussing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u58	The verdict also states... I have also seen comments made on proportionality. However, the court for the provision of services said that those comments were abundant. When a judge says that, it doesn't weigh in on the final verdict. That is why they were also comments "in abundance." The verdict was on the legal basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u59	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u60	Suppose that would be so, it isn't, because this is just sanding in the eyes of the public then we still have the Council of State. He says the proportionality isn't right. Then we see a number of paragraphs in the explanatory memorandum. I think that's really cutting out of earlier proposals that we've seen come by. It still does not benefit this proportionality from what we are discussing here today, namely: show that this curfew measure has a real effect. On the advice of the OMT, the cabinet presents a number of model descriptions and references to France. The Court of First Instance stated that this was not a good basis. The next trial on this is likely to be the same as this one. Then why are you holding people against their will?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u61	What we need to remember here is that we don't have one thing, and that's time. As a country, we don't have the luxury of saying right now: let's take a quiet look and have a double-blind randomized study run that will then be in a peer reviewed journal. There's no luxury. RIVM needs to make assessments right now. Those assessments are made by top experts. That's what we're dealing with right now. I agree that the cabinet may be challenged to the maximum extent to support the proportionality of the proposed measures. There's no doubt about that. But we shouldn't pretend to have infinite time right now. That is a luxury that the Netherlands cannot afford at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u62	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u63	Thank you, Mr President. In the previous debate on curfew, my group has already indicated its opposition. For us, this broad balance of interests, including the mental and broader well-being of the population, is extremely important. During the written round, we also expressed our legal objections in detail. We already described the curfew as unlawful. So I don't want to shout "see you" in a loud tone, but all this is harmful. The cabinet has really messed this up. Today, I will deal first with the previous bill, the so-called Continuation Act, and with what went wrong. Then, of course, I will also deal with the new emergency law that is now before us. The cabinet chose to use that Wbbbg, an emergency law. Following a decision on the curfew, according to that law, a bill had to be sent to the Chamber without delay. Without delay means: without delay, immediately. Then you cannot mention curfew in the press conference on 12 January, then really announce the curfew in the press conference on 20 January and then finally come up with that law on 2 February. That really doesn't do. And it was really a mini-law, with three short articles of law and two A4's explanatory memorandum. I think it is right that the judge considered this procedure to be not legitimate. Then there is the second point, which is broader about the system of restricting fundamental rights in this country. I still don't feel that there is any awareness of that in the cabinet. If you want to restrict people's fundamental rights, you have to have a formal law for that. A formal law must have been approved by both the Second and the Upper Chambers. The Constitution doesn't know that structure for nothing. The Second and First Chambers should be able to rule on fundamental rights restrictions. Then, as the government did, you could indeed choose the Wbbbg. That is such a formal law in itself. That law was passed by First and Second Chambers a long time ago, but this is an emergency law with far-reaching powers. That is why, of course, there are safeguards, which are in line with the way the Constitution works. Those guarantees ensure that the Second and First Chambers are again involved when a fundamental right is actually restricted. You can only use this law before curfew if you declare a state of emergency or immediately pass a new law through the First and Second Chambers. The law states that this must be done without delay in legal language. It says: so that there will not be a lengthy period in which these fundamental rights are already limited but the First and Second Chambers will have to decide on them. Also today, on 18 February, there was still no approval given by First and Second Chambers, more than a month after mentioning the intention by the Cabinet. In the meantime, the cabinet has already decided to extend that curfew. This has resulted in a fairly long period in which fundamental rights are already limited, but the approval of First and Second Chambers is still lacking. That's an underlying problem. My group finds that very difficult. As far as we are concerned, the story of the Prime Minister that the cabinet discussed the curfew with the House of Representatives in advance does not change that. From a legal point of view, it's not particularly valuable. According to the system that protects our fundamental rights, the First Chamber should have been involved in the first instance. The First Chamber didn't let the Minister know for no reason that things weren't going well. All the minister did was send a note to inform them of the decision he had already made. As far as we're concerned, that's far from chic. It's a good thing there's a new attempt by the cabinet and it's now ahead of us. First of all, I would like to say that we in the Chamber should not seek to adopt a record of emergency laws. I sometimes taste the tendency to want to be even faster than the fastest law ever, but this is an incredibly far-reaching law. We really need to take that seriously and take the time we need to do so. It can be really fast, but there are limits to that. We are here to check the cabinet, not to have to clean up the mess on call. I'd better get right on that point. Is it because of the haste that the Minister has not asked the Council of State for an opinion again? The government submits an emergency law to the Council of State, called Emergency Act A, gets comments on it and adapts the law, but then sends a fundamentally different law, the so-called Emergency Act B, to the Chamber. It would have been more careful if the Council of State had once again asked for an opinion on the drafting of this law, especially since the precise effect is so important. The curfew is now placed in the corona law, which is also part of the Public Health Act. There are, of course, hooks and eyes on them. Can the Minister explain why no opinion has yet been requested from the Council of State and whether he can do so? I ask that so emphatically because the first route of the cabinet has already been corrected by the judge. The second route of the cabinet was corrected by the Council of State. This gives reason to think about the care taken in developing the third route, especially in view of the unprecedented haste involved. In short, we would like to see an opinion from the Council of State on the third route chosen. Another, more fundamental point that concerns us as a Party for Animals in this law is the power that the government draws towards it with the broad terms it chooses in this law. The government wants to be able to lay down rules about outdoors. But the government does not specifically say whether these are rules that set exactly that time between 9 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. So we're still curious about that. So if we now agree to this law, the government can decide later that no one is allowed out 24 hours a day. Then the First Chamber has absolutely nothing to say about it. In our group's view, this is contrary to the way in which fundamental rights should be dealt with. We are also curious whether the government can respond to this. And even if that curfew is about to be abolished and would be re-established in a few months' time, hopefully not, but unfortunately, at Corona we know that only then will the First Chamber have nothing to say about it. Two final points. We see a separate power being created for mayors to designate exceptions to that curfew. Mr. Van Haga was talking about that, too. Why this would be necessary is not clear to my group. We can already see that very dubious categories are being designated for exceptions. Hunters who start shooting for fun at night, for example, are already excluded. Why does the government specifically create this power for mayors? We don't get it. And another point from the ongoing trial. The judge actually says that the cabinet cannot sufficiently explain why a curfew would be inevitable and that it actually has a substantial effect. Several parties have already spoken about this today. Then how did the cabinet deal with this bill? We really do not see enough points in this respect and think that we will be standing here again next week at another mistake. We would very much like to prevent them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u64	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I actually have two comments to make on the legislative proposal that is before us. The first is the question of proportionality, and the second is a number of legal aspects. Although the Chamber has debated this proportionality on several occasions, I believe that every time this proposal is discussed here in the Chamber it is justified to raise that question of proportionality again. My group notes, also in view of the 100th OMT opinion that came out yesterday, that the science underneath is estimated to be a 10% reduction resulting from curfew, combined with the adapted visitation scheme. We find that reason enough to continue on the road we have chosen earlier to be before curfew. We also consider that, as a speaker, we would prefer to go to bed at 9 p.m. at night, if I may put it so plasticly, than to close the schools again or to close the nursing homes again. In this regard, we consider the proposal to be proportionate and we support it. Then there are the legal aspects. In fact, I am very pleased that this proposal, so the curfew, as a remedy, has come home where it belongs, namely in the Public Health Act. We have previously amended that law with the so-called Corona Wealth Act, which has never been an emergency law, but that aside. The system chosen for all measures to combat the coronavirus, with all the guarantees in it, all the restrictions in the time that things may take, belongs to this measure and we are very pleased with it. There is one thing, on which we have also tabled an amendment together with Mr Grothuizen, and that is the duration of the ministerial arrangement which allows a curfew to be arranged. Look, the cabinet has said so far: we limit that in time, so up to three weeks. That's neat, that's neat, then you get another consideration. But with this far-reaching restriction of a fundamental right, we believe that it would do justice to the system, and also to the role of the Chamber, which is also enshrined in the law that such a curfew could not last longer than three weeks. That is why we are adapting it with this amendment. Of course, we would like to hear a reaction from the cabinet. It is not so much a material difference as so far the cabinet has limited itself to those three weeks, but it is really a point that we consider important in the system of fundamental rights and the role of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u66	Mr Van Dam himself rightly points out that there is already a rule by law that there is a limited duration on the curfew. Of course, that's a good thing. He himself states that the amendment does not, therefore, provide any added value in material terms, because it has already been arranged that there is a limitation in time. So what is the added value? Isn't it rather arbitrary to formalise this point by law, in other words, in the law we are discussing here, rather than in the law underneath, as has been done for other restrictions on fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u67	No, I don't think that's random at all. We live in a country where we will have to have sex with each other, including with regard to corona. One cannot ignore the fact that curfew is actually a very harsh arrangement, because it applies to all Dutch people, while other arrangements that have been made focus on school children, elderly people or so on. This arrangement is aimed at everyone between 9:00 p.m. and I believe 04:30 a.m. We must also try to answer the people in society who are critical of this and those people are there; look at your mailbox and at the trial that took place this week and try to hear in their criticism. That is why I believe it is important that, for those who are less enthusiastic about the curfew, we also make it clear in the law that this is how it is arranged. I think there is a fundamental difference between saying "office, nice guys, you do it yourself" and just establishing it democratically with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u68	We agree in substance that there must indeed be a time limit on this damn measure. So it's already on. A point of discussion is that we do not lay down other points which also apply to very large groups of people in the formal law. This applies, for example, to entrepreneurs who cannot even keep their own premises and their own businesses running and who cannot open up. Hence my question as to why we do not do it for one group and for the other group. Why don't we just stick to one system for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u69	Often repetition is the strength of my message, but in this case I believe that I have already said that there is a difference. I understand that every measure is restrictive for all those entrepreneurs. I'm sorry about that, too. It's very intrusive. But this curfew applies to entrepreneurs and students, old and young. So it applies to everyone. That's what makes the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u70	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u71	Mr. Chairman. I want closure. We are, of course, talking about a restriction of freedoms, even freedom. How do you understand the word "freedom"? Freedom can be understood as a "I" word: it is about "my" freedom. But from the Christian Democratic tradition I stand for, it's more of a "we" word. My freedom is never something that only respects me. It's about the space I can share with others. In that space I also encounter people who, for example, have weak health, who are chronically ill or who are worried about what the coronavirus means to them. In my opinion, the concept of freedom comes into being in this way. When I weigh that down, I think once again: I can stand for this curfew, even when it comes to restricting my freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u72	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This morning, we heard Mr Voermans, Professor of Constitutional Law, say to us: the Chamber may today reassert the shards of the cabinet. I think that many of us do feel that the wretched structure that the government has built and that is about to collapse is now going to have to go through the Chamber. That's not a nice thing to do. Then I speak for myself. If anything is important in the fight against the virus, it is that people must be able to trust that the cabinet is in order and that the legal structure it sets up can also withstand a storm and not fall over the best headwind. That went ugly this week, didn't it? Unfortunately, it is not the first time that things have gone so badly wrong in the approach to the coronavirus. This proved to be the case last year when testing policy started so slowly. This has already been demonstrated by the chaotic way in which the vaccination strategy has been developed. It is also evident from the fact that we are still working a year after that to get the best protection equipment for our caregivers. The cabinet has lost a lot of trust and credit in society with this week's legal mess. The cabinet has fallen through the ice, now that the judge has spoken in a case that has been brought by a bunch of virus deniers. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister, what does he think of that? Does he recognise that the stubbornness, the stubbornness, of this cabinet has now caused a great deal of damage? Has the Minister of Justice even organized counterpower? Did he legally investigate whether it was all true and whether there was a better way to introduce that curfew measure? Or did he especially want to listen to his own right? Has no one really warned at his ministry whether there was any other way to do this or not? Didn't those sounds happen or didn't he listen? Mr. Chairman. In any case, the SP believes that a measure that intervenes in people's lives should not be a legal disaster. I would also like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he can promise that the curfew, independently of the outcome of the appeal tomorrow, will be given a better legal basis than it is now. Or are we dealing here today with some sort of "reserve law" that the cabinet only intends to use if it loses the appeal tomorrow? I also want that question answered by the Prime Minister. In my view, that would be a very bad way of doing things. Mr. Chairman. It is no surprise that the cabinet took a lot of risks with this procedure. In October we discussed here the Temporary Law measures covid-19, the corona law, the "ex-welfare law" or whatever we want to call it. When we discussed that law, I addressed Minister Hugo de Jonge precisely on this point. Even then, it was already clear that the cabinet had no intention of thinking ahead and moving forward. People prefer to rule through thunder-preparation, press conferences and emergency procedures rather than through well-prepared legislation. That's not good for the support. Then you do not express the confidence that you are really willing to prepare, underpin and justify far-reaching measures. Unfortunately, we see this happening again when it comes to curfew. The SP also stressed in October how important it is that measures are predictable and that we know at a certain level of contamination what measures are being considered and can be taken. That still hasn't worked out. We haven't heard anything about the infamous road map in a while. I wonder if it's gonna come off again in this pandemic. Mr. Chairman. The way the cabinet works must be trusted. That means that you can't change the vaccination strategy every week, that you can't pold on protective equipment for a year and that you can't ignore hired room motions about a higher salary in care. Minister Grapperhaus says in interviews that he as a child "has fallen into a cauldron state of law." Then he will know what he is doing, we think when the Minister proposes to introduce curfew on the basis of an old law for crisis situations. In fact, the Minister earlier claimed in this Chamber that there was no other possibility for curfew at all. In the debate on the extension of curfew, the Minister said, in response to Mr Van der Staaij's question, that you cannot include curfew measures in the Temporary Law covid-19, because "however you turn or turn it, this is an ordinary law." I still do not understand exactly what the Minister meant by that. He basically stated that you can't arrange the curfew at all in the Corona Act. But now the Minister is doing so, while two weeks ago he pressed the Chamber to the heart that there was no other way. I would like to ask the Minister how that is possible. How does he explain that? Did he actually inform the Chamber properly at the time, if he said he couldn't and it's happening now? Mr. Chairman. It is also striking that the cabinet has little clarity, and indicates at what stage of the pandemic the curfew can be stopped again. In the debate on the extension of the measure, the SP specifically asked for this, but there was no clear answer either. The Prime Minister stated that the effect of the curfew would be looked at in consultation with the RIVM. It would also be considered whether this effect can be removed from other measures such as the one visitor at home. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister what's going on with these analyses. Can he now clarify the level of contagion where curfew is abolished again? How does this relate to the other far-reaching measures in force? We have often talked about the fact that for many people limiting home visits to one person per day goes much further and is far more radical than the curfew we are discussing today. We have also often talked about opening up secondary schools and giving more space to young people. We all want this to happen, but I also think the Cabinet will say that we cannot do everything at once. And then I ask the Prime Minister: what exactly is the plan? In what order does the cabinet intend to take action? In what order do young people, for example in high school, get more space? Mr. Chairman. Especially for a outgoing cabinet, it is important to retain the support for far-reaching measures. But in recent weeks the cabinet has been doing its best to lose a lot of support, in society, but also here in the House of Representatives, by making such a mess of things. Since the beginning of this year there has been talk of a curfew. For six weeks, the cabinet has had time to prepare a proper law. And now we're standing here again, in front of a quickie, because the corona fight of this cabinet is on the verge of falling apart. I think that many people understand the fact that mistakes are sometimes made in the speed of a crisis. But too often we see that it doesn't go wrong because of mistakes, but through negligence, by ignoring signals and warnings, as we saw very recently at the data breach at the GDD. Or as we see in this case: the stubbornness and stubbornness of a cabinet that does not seem to care about signals from the Lower House or the Council of State. The SP believes it can't be done this way. Yes, we want everything to be done to prevent a third wave of infections. We must now contain the virus, precisely because we want to open up the schools more quickly and give the catering industry, the shops and all the others air again. It is precisely for this reason that the SP has been calling for the virus to be contained as soon as possible since the beginning of this crisis. We support the government in the measures that ensure this. But what we cannot accept is that our support for far-reaching measures is sought while all requests for things to be settled properly and lawfully are ignored by this cabinet. The vast majority of the population, like the SP, wants us to ensure that the pressure on hospitals is reduced as quickly as possible and that the schools can be opened up again. For all those people, for all those caregivers, for all those young people, we support measures to control the virus. For these people, we will once again support a proposal to get the coronavirus out of the country, but do not allow this cabinet to take that support as an appreciation of the way in which it has so incredibly screwed up the legal basis of the curfew. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u74	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u75	Mr. Chairman. It is painful that we are standing here today, and it is painful that we have to talk about curfew for three days, because that undermines confidence in the crisis approach. That is my first question to him, and I hope that the Minister will recognize it in a good way and that he will not make it go away, because everything falls or stands with the confidence that we, as inhabitants of the Netherlands, have in the crisis approach. At the moment when this kind of thing is going to play in the media and have to be fought in court, that confidence is simply being undermined. Mr. Chairman. I'm glad we organized a technical briefing this morning. I think that was useful, also in order to assess how legally sound the bill is now before us. But it still raises a number of questions. My first question is why the Extraordinary Powers Act is not repealed. Why does the cabinet choose to continue to follow two parallel tracks? Is that legally sound? The scholars told us this morning that it doesn't make sense to do that and that you shouldn't bet on two horses. One of my colleagues said it before. So that's my first question. My second question is about proportionality. What makes the difference between this bill and the previous bill, that it would now be less at stake or at risk? A number of colleagues have asked questions about this and a number of colleagues will ask questions about it. I think it is important to share this with each other in this debate. Mr. Chairman. Since this is an intrusive measure, I think it is a good thing that colleagues Van Dam and Groothuizen have tabled an amendment to also limit the duration of this bill to three weeks. However, I think it is also important for the Cabinet to continue to report to us on whether the curfew is still proportionate, given the contagion rates or other issues that are going on. I would therefore like to ask the cabinet whether it intends to do so. Finally, Mr President. I would like to conclude by saying that we voted in favour of curfew with a lot of hesitation, but that a legal error is not a reason to withdraw that support. However, it must be quite clear that what is now in store and that we are not getting wet again, because that would really be an embarrassment. Setting a curfew isn't a nice measure, but we'll do it. We're doing it because we think it's necessary to relieve the burden of care, because we think it's necessary to bring down the infection rates, but also to create other possibilities, such as opening schools. That's the last thing we all long for. I look forward to the answers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u76	Before you leave the Chamber, Mr Wilders would like to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u77	The colleague of the Labour Party pretends that they are all legal problems, but it is also about proportionality. She did say something about that, by the way. It is not the case that the cabinet merely clumsyly grabbed a wrong law that wasn't appropriate, but the amenities court also says that the curfew is not proportionate. And many, including me, have said the same here in the Chamber. That curfew is not proportional because it simply does not prove to lead to fewer infections. They're theoretical exercises, models. And if there is any effect, it will always go hand in hand with the one-visitor-home scheme. So you're acting like it's legal. You say: if it is legally resolved differently and if that is right, then we support it again. But it's about the content. The Court of Justice has also said about the content: it is unlawful because you cannot prove that this measure leads to fewer infections. Well, what does Mrs. Chicken think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u78	As far as the last part of your question is concerned, it is up to the cabinet to answer that. So that's the question I have. The first part of your question is: do we think this is proportionate? Of course, we did that when we supported the curfew. I do not think that the conditions under which we supported that curfew have changed because the levels of contamination have not yet fallen sufficiently. We've allowed relaxations, like opening primary schools, which I'm very happy about as a mother. So that makes me make a different assessment. Is it exact science? No, it's not. That is what we constantly see in this crisis. All the time, models and assumptions are used. Is that ideal? No, absolutely not. That is what you are doing, and I will consider it. But it's not exactly science.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u79	It is quite exact that it has not been scientifically established that that curfew alone leads to fewer infections. That's as ready as a whistle and there's no one to doubt it. But compared to the last time we were standing here, it is now new that it is part of the unlawful declaration by the welfare court. Not only did the judge of the court say: I think it is unlawful because the government uses the wrong law, namely a law that should only be used in emergency situations such as dike breaks. As part of the judgment that it is unlawful, the Court of Justice also stated that there is no proportionality. So that is not just a matter for you and me, but that is what the Court of Justice has done. The judge has said that it is not only legal, but also substantively unlawful, because disproportionate. I see that you are getting impatient, Madam President, but I must be able to make this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u80	I'm looking at the cabinet. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u81	That is often wise to do, because the rulers usually sit on their phone calls and stuff. But my point was this. If the Group of the Party of Labour takes seriously that we should not give away our freedoms, which Mrs Kuik also considers important, then she must also acknowledge that it is not just a difference of appreciation between you and me, but that the Court of Justice has said that the lack of proportionality is part of the unlawfulness. And you're gonna let that matter? Because that's a difference from when we were standing here a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u82	I repeat what I said in an earlier reply. You are making an inference that I do not quite agree with on the basis of the ruling of the Court of Appeal. But it is a question that I do have, and that is why I ask the cabinet. If the cabinet can't answer that question convincingly and adequately, then we'll make a different weighting. That the curfew is a very penetrating measure, we also knew a few weeks ago. But I am doing so because I am still convinced that the measure can contribute. I agree with Mr Wilders that we do not know exactly how much that is, in percentages, because they are indeed two measures bound together. But that is a trade-off that my group is making. The question is correct, but it will have to be answered by the cabinet. I've got another frog in my throat. Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u83	Finally, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u84	I'm so scared... You know, I stayed with the coalition, 'cause, yeah, you try sometimes. But most of the time, it's a closed case. But you're the representative of an opposition party, aren't you, Mrs. Kuik?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u85	A very nice party, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u86	Well, Corona doesn't always go along the lines of coalition and opposition, and that's a good thing. We, too, have supported measures taken by the cabinet in the past year. Yet, you are the representative of an opposition party and you are already going to act like a lamb. There's not the beginning of a lioness in you. It's about giving away people's freedom now. The cabinet screwed up with the wrong law. The Supreme Court says that this is not only unlawful for legal reasons, but also because there is still no evidence from the government that the measure leads to fewer infections. And now you're gonna look at the cabinet like a lamb again. And I'm predicting that you're about to resume your agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u87	Why do you have to do that every time? I'm just trying very seriously to answer your questions. Then you don't get the answer you like and then suddenly it's lamb work again. That's not the point. We do not take measures in the corona domain because they are popular or because they are easy. We do that because we think it's necessary. RIVM also talks about substantial contributions to reducing the level of infection, the number of infections. I agree with Mr Wilders that we cannot determine 100% of the amount of this contribution, but it is not the case that it is not a contribution at all. So you can't draw that conclusion. I'm not gonna let you talk me into that either, because I'm a little too much lioness for that. Then I'd like to show you my teeth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u88	This is just a fleeting contribution from a lamb. I'm sorry to say that. This isn't even the beginning of your teeth. It's not even baby teeth you're showing. This is about our freedom! It's not just about anything. It is not a question of 'I am asking two legal questions' and 'I think that question is important'. It's about our freedom! That curfew is a huge restriction of that freedom. It's not a voluntary curfew. There would be a lot of people still feel for it. It's a mandatory curfew! Not only does the judge say: you have used the wrong law; gossip, Mr. Rutte. That amenities judge also says: you haven't shown that it works. It is therefore unlawful, not only for legal reasons but also for other reasons. This is not about whether a bread should cost a euro more; it is about our freedom. You have a fleeting input. You shine in nothing that you fight for the freedom of the people. You're gonna keep a little string of strings here, and then you're gonna just put your hand back up when we're gonna vote on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u89	Yeah, but also because I'm not gonna let you talk me into having people in this house who are for or against freedom. It's just not that easy. Mr Wilders knows that very well. That's total bullshit. We all want to return to a normal world, at least to a reasonably normal one. In that freedom we come only by sacrificing a number of freedoms now. If it's not proportional anymore, it needs to be removed acutely. But the discussion here is not about who is or is not in favour of freedom. That's total bullshit. Mr Wilders knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u90	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK. You want a short break, Prime Minister Rutte? Yes, after Mr Kuzu; he is already ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u91	Mr. Chairman. In abundance, even though kuzu means in Turkish lamb, I will continue to fight like a lion against curfew, for it is just messy work. It's gossip. It's a cabinet gang. It's complete chaos. We at DENK have said it from the very beginning: Rutte's curfew, which is supported by the curfew coalition with D66, SP, PvdA and GroenLinks, among others, is simply not right. The curfew is not proven effective. Curfew affects the fundamental rights of Dutch people. The curfew is unnecessary. The curfew causes a lot of suffering in society. The curfew closes young people, who are already quite tired and having a hard time, in their own home. 70% of young people are facing a burnout. The curfew is now also unlawful. In short, that curfew is a bullying measure of a panic premier with dictatorial traits. The introduction of curfew was already a big blamage, a charade. We asked over and over again: give proof that the curfew works. Rutte couldn't give it. The government's own RIVM couldn't give it. Scientists both at home and abroad made the curfew work, yet Rutte, supported by the curfew coalition of D66, SP, GroenLinks and PvdA, press that twisted curfew through. DENK demanded from this Prime Minister to show that the curfew is really needed and asked if there are any alternatives. Rutte came up with a long vague story, doom images, speculations about mutants, with assumptions based on models, unclear expectations. We asked the Prime Minister why curfew would be an appropriate measure. Rutte couldn't prove why curfew is the best cure. Rutte could not prove why the curfew should take away people's freedom. Mr. Chairman. That the Council of State was critical, Rutte had no message about that either. DENK voted against curfew, because it was gossip. It's a mess. It's just a bad story. That's been exposed by the amenities court this week. Prime Minister Rutte tried to act as a sort of ruler and was beaten down by the right, hard on his actions. According to the judge, there was no sufficiently acute emergency that gave the cabinet the right to introduce that curfew. According to the court, there are serious doubts about the need to do so. That the introduction of a curfew has a substantial effect has not been sufficiently demonstrated by the cabinet, the court judges. I quote: 'The court of provision is of the opinion that there are at least major doubts about the factual justification by the State of the need for the curfew measure'. The legal procedure that has been followed was not right. There is talk of mutations and infectious variants, but little is really certain about this, says the court: "The court of amenities finds that the OMT, in its own words, has no evidence that the curfew makes a substantial contribution to the reduction of the virus. The fact that some countries, including apparently France, have reported positively on this is not convincing at this stage without further justification." That is exactly what we said here in the House of Representatives a while ago. I hate to say it, but we're getting right. The judge also makes it impossible for this cabinet to throw the curfew and the visitor's arrangement into one heap. That's what happens in the new bill. In summary, according to the court, Rutte's curfew did not show that it was necessary, that it worked, that it was not shown that the proper procedure had been followed and that there were no other measures achieving the same effect. With his curfew, this Prime Minister has done nothing but shit off the top shelf, and he really should be ashamed of that. He has offended the Netherlands, he has offended the Chamber, he has violated the rule of law. Here's just a curfew dictator who doesn't care about everything and everyone. Mr. Chairman. The essence is that Rutte did everything he could to avoid this Parliament and the House of Representatives. This is, as Voermans said this morning during the technical briefing, a denial of parliament and a denial of the people. Why is Rutte suspicious of the House of Representatives? The controlling role of the House of Representatives doesn't mean we have to clean up the government's mess, does it? That is why I would also like to know the legal consequences of the judgment of the Supreme Court, particularly if it is shown that this will be maintained tomorrow. The chances are good, because the Wbbbg really is an unacceptable legal route. Actually, the Cabinet has also admitted this by coming up with a new bill, which is in line with the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and the Public Health Act, as advised by the Council of State. In any event, this means that there was an illegal situation in the period from 23 January to 18 February and that unlawful criminal decisions were imposed on fines. That's a lot of them, about 20,000. That is why I want the Minister of Justice and Security's undertaking that these criminal decisions will be dropped immediately if the judgment of the Supreme Court continues tomorrow. I also want the commitment that there will be a refund of €95 to all those people who have already paid wrongly. Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that Prime Minister Rutte has been knocked down by the judge, he wants to press the curfew through with an emergency law. That is proof of dedain, arrogance, contempt for the judge and contempt for the Netherlands. I'm also surprised that this can be done with a turbo-welfare bill. If Rutte had worked with the same speed to compensate the parents in the supplementing affair, that would have been a good thing. But then it couldn't happen. Now all of a sudden it's possible, and very quickly. This shows that this man, who sits there, is acting as the dictator of the Low Countries. With this emergency law, this Prime Minister does not shine away the fundamental criticism of the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u92	May I interrupt you for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u93	You may, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u94	I like it when you call someone a dictator.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u95	I will stick with those words, because it is clear that you will pass through Parliament and press through a measure. I'm gonna keep those words going. I'm talking about my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u96	Sure, but I think it's pretty intense to accuse a Prime Minister of being a dictator. That is the point I want to make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u97	I take note of that, Mr President. Thank you. I had stuck to the observation that the emergency law did not brush away the fundamental criticism of the judge, namely that the curfew is not proven to be effective, that figures are messed up and that it cannot be followed. Anyone who's before that curfew should really be talking to themselves. Nota bene the Council of State says, like the judge, about that emergency law that the proportionality of curfew has not been demonstrated. In response to the Council of State, the cabinet comes up with exactly the same arguments that had already been rejected. The Court of First Instance dismissed those arguments in its judgment. The necessity and proportionality of curfew have not been made sufficiently plausible. There is no actual evidence that a curfew will make a substantial contribution. Reference is made again to the OMT opinion. Reference is made to calculation models that give a certain outcome. That is merely a prognosis and not the actual perceptible outcome. That has therefore been put on the same footing as the one-visitor arrangement. There are no convincing examples of other countries where curfew has made a substantial contribution. It has not been demonstrated that there is no other less significant measure possible. The need and proportionality are therefore still lacking. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet remains stubborn and hard learners. We therefore say quite clearly: DENK was against that curfew, DENK is against that curfew and we will stay against that curfew until convincing evidence has been provided. Instead of remaining behind the facts, it must be clear by now. That's why I'm saying to this government: just cut it out. And I say to the colleagues: finally take yourself seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u98	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u99	I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u100	Mr President, I have been thinking about what you have just said to Mr Kuzu. Actually, I'd like to join in on that. You can all think that the measure is not good and you can think that the curfew is not the issue, but the words you use do not match what the Netherlands expects of us, namely that we tackle this crisis together. I would like to call on you to moderate your tone in that respect and simply take back those words. It is really not done to call our Prime Minister, democratically elected, a dictator. I really think it's past what's decent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u101	The Prime Minister was not democratically elected. He was the leader of the largest political party. I don't need to explain to you how that goes in such a formation period. Then I say very clearly: I'm going over my own tone. I am making a clear point here. I'm just saying that part of the Netherlands is experiencing it this way. I'm talking about my own words. I say again that there is no convincing evidence for the usefulness of that curfew. When we look at the procedure, at the way in which the court of convenience has flagged back the decision of this cabinet, which we also had a debate on earlier, you should rather ask yourself why you were so keen on this proposal at the time, why you did not make that criticism that you should expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u102	But that was not the point. It was about the language and the accusation towards, in this case, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u103	Mr President, I stand by my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u104	We got that. Finally, Mr Van Dam on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u105	And very briefly, because I think you'd like that, too. I think that we should give an example here and with this kind of text... In substance, you must say what you want. Of course, you are perfectly free to do so. I don't like the tone. That does not help in the fight against a crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u106	Responding to this: I think there are also a lot of people in the country who are disturbing the tone of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u107	Mr President, DENK makes a mistake of thinking here, because he...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u108	Haha, funny.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u109	...is not about his own tone. The tone that we find acceptable here, we also determine it together. So I want to support the President in this; unacceptable and scumbag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u111	Mr President, that was a good joke!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u112	I'm glad you made your contribution in complete freedom. The proposal was to suspend for a while. I'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u113	Let's move on to the debate. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u114	Mr. Chairman. In this corona crisis, there are no easy choices. The virus is erratic and unpredictable. Every measure hurts. Restaurants have been closed since October. High school students have been home since Christmas. The cultural sector is out of the public. This crisis is causing many casualties. The vulnerable who end up on the ice are fighting for their lives. The water is on the lips of the care staff. But there are also all those young people who crave perspective, resulting in rising depression. We have been in a slumbering lockdown for months now, which has gradually been tightened up, with two very painful measures for many people as a final piece: the one-visitor rule and the curfew. The latter rule has, of course, resulted in most social discussion and resistance. It is precisely in the legal anchoring of this measure that the cabinet operated carelessly and sloppyly. The cabinet was warned by the SGP, as several fellow Members have pointed out, and by the Council of State: ensure proper legal safeguards. Nevertheless, the cabinet chose the legally shaky instrument of the Act extraordinary powers of civil authority. Why? Can the Minister point this out again? Why has the Cabinet not previously established a legal basis in the Temporary Law covid-19 measures, as was advised by the Council of State among others? Why did the cabinet decide yesterday to make a separate law after the welfare judge's ruling? Why has it not been until after the new criticism of the Council of State decided to include the basis in the temporary law? The answer, which I would like to mention quite briefly, in the note following today's report, states that this is the simplest solution. Then my question is: simple for whom? For the cabinet, for society, for parliament? Then I have a specific question about the legal basis. What will the cabinet do if the court destroys the court's ruling? Will the Cabinet continue to use the Extraordinary Powers of Civil Authority Act? Or isn't the law that we're discussing today used? I believe that this question has been raised by several fellow Members. We expect a clear statement from the Minister on this. Mr. Chairman. Much goes wrong in dealing with the corona crisis, around testing, around vaccinations, around personal protective equipment. The red line is that time and time again the knowledge and skills of experts are beaten in the wind. The cabinet is overconfident and stubbornly continues on a path that has been taken. What does this do with trust and support in society? We see that it undermines confidence in policy and government. Then you have to remember that Mr Van Dissel will probably be able to calculate the effect on the R if there is no confidence in the measures proposed by this government and if the people stop because the government itself does not have its own affairs in order. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet's been hard hit by the judge. The judge had strong criticism of the legal basis as well as questions on the basis of proportionality. There's a new bill now. In doing so, the legal basis has been adapted, but what about the justification of proportionality? Is the Minister convinced that he will now stand before the judge? Does the Minister share the view that the longer such a measure lasts, so the more time goes on, the more demands need to be made on the question of proportionality? In the debate last week, or has it been two weeks? Several colleagues and myself have asked questions on the basis of which criteria will be decided to lift the measure. What weighting does this take? In the written round, my group asked for a framework for consideration. It is also important for society to support the far-reaching measure. I would very much like a more detailed explanation from the cabinet. This law now provides the legal basis, but the actual measure takes place by ministerial regulation. Then what procedure is applicable to that measure itself and what is the role of the House of Representatives if an extension were to be considered? And does the Minister consider that, given the gravity of this measure, it would be important to give the First Chamber a role? Mr. Chairman. I agree with what has been said about the amendment tabled by Mr Van Dam and Mr Groothuizen. I think it is important that we also guarantee that term in the law, so I am very curious about the reaction of the cabinet to this. Mr. Chairman. The curfew is a very radical measure and the courts question proportionality. What has been the weighting compared to other measures? When and how can we say more about the effectiveness of the individual measure? Does the Minister expect this to be possible in the near future, or should we accept that this will never be the case? And what does that mean? On what basis can it ultimately be decided whether or not to withdraw the measure? Could that be a threshold, for example? In order to weigh proportionality, it is important that both the desired and the undesirable social effects can be weighed, but in the previous debate it appeared that the undesirable social effects were not actually identified at all. Also in the explanatory memorandum, the infringement of the fundamental right was described as an abstract concept rather than the concrete social damage caused by this measure. Can the government make an impact assessment on the increase in domestic violence, child abuse, etc. in the short term? What about any other measures? Does the Cabinet really do anything to bring down the R? In this long-term lockdown, we get restrictive measures after restrictive measures, but during the debate on our initiative paper on large-scale testing, it turned out that the effect of more effective testing on the R was never really properly investigated. The support for far-reaching measures really requires the government to show that everything is being done in width to take less drastic measures to combat the virus. This includes large-scale testing and effective vaccination as far as we are concerned. Finally, Mr President. We've been sending ic-capacity for over a year now. My group has questioned this before. Corona reduces social problems to a medical capacity issue, but the impact on society is so much wider and the damage so much greater. We need to look at this crisis with a broader perspective. So far, however, it has not been clear how the cabinet weighs the various interests. The OMT consists of virologists, epidemiologists and doctors. The cabinet says that it is advised more widely, for example by behavioral scientists, sociologists and economists, but how is that secured? There is nothing about this in the public OMT opinions. They're just talking about an R. How's the Cabinet going to ensure broader social consideration? What's that gonna make the R? What's this R that we all have a clear view of? The importance of all the vulnerable, including young people, must be taken into account. In previous debates, the message of the cabinet was clear: to be able to open the schools, more stringent measures are now needed. How does the Cabinet estimate that at this time? How are we going to get children back to physical education as soon as possible? Mr President, I will conclude. The corona crisis is a major change in society. That requires very careful action. That means listening to expertise and calling for help when needed. The cabinet must learn from this legal blunder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u115	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we can all see that this week has been chaotic. The curfew was suddenly off the job Tuesday morning and still in effect Tuesday night. Probably never so many Dutch people have followed a lawsuit live. Between the two statements a messy press conference was held by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. "A legal setback," the Prime Minister called it. In abundance, a bill would be sent to the Chamber, should the appeal of the State fail. Now we are in the middle of discussing a new bill. The government, the States-General and the judiciary have in fact ended up in some kind of state-law spaghetti. The case is still strictly under the courts and the First Chamber still has to vote on the continuing law, on which proceedings are now under way. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to return to the verdict that caused the case to roll. The judge's ruling was clear: the law on which the curfew is based, the Act of extraordinary powers of civil authority, was wrongly activated before curfew. According to the court, there was no mention of the alleged superbness. So the government should have gone through a regular legislative process. The Prime Minister and the Minister stressed at the press conference that they disagree with the judge. Of course you can. They felt that there was indeed urgency to set that curfew. The OMT would show this in an opinion. But let's face it, as early as 28 September last year, an OMT recommendation first mentioned a curfew. On Sunday 2 November it was a scenario in front of the Catshuis and the Wbbbg was already discussed as a possible basis. When I read back the OMT recommendations, I see that the curfew has been discussed at least four times in the OMT before it was introduced. In my view, therefore, the judge is right to say that there was enough time to prepare this properly and to make legal arrangements. Nor is it as if the Council of State and a number of members of this Chamber have not questioned the chosen legal path. Moreover, in the daily newspaper, it was clear that the Minister had only thought at a very late stage about what law a curfew should actually be doing. Painful. It is also painful to see that the minister who once thought he had fallen into a cauldron of law, when restricting freedoms, does not think at a very late stage about the right course of law. Also yesterday, the Minister of Justice headed for a separate law, rather than the logical route of changing the corona law. Fortunately, after consulting the Council of State, he finally came back to that, but that road took a long time. Mr. Chairman. So now there will be a curfew base in the Public Health Act. I think that makes sense, and that was confirmed this morning by the experts we spoke to. However, I would also like to ask whether the Minister of Justice can now guarantee that the legal basis for which we are choosing this bill is really solid. I ask this very strongly because this minister himself recently wrote that urgent legislative processes, because of the haste with which they need to be completed, do not provide the best guarantees for an informed process and result. Mr. Chairman. I told you, the three state powers have ended up in some sort of legal spaghetti. I'd like to take you in on that. Where are we and what are the uncertainties? We now have a curfew based on the Wbbg. The President of the Court of First Instance annulled it. As a result, the ministerial arrangement which is governed by that law has also lapsed. The incidental action subsequently suspended the legal effects of that decision. The Minister's appeal against that interim ruling is still pending tomorrow. The First Chamber will vote next week on the law now inoperative. We are now discussing a bill in this Chamber on curfew, which has now been adopted to amend the Public Health Act. The ministerial arrangement would then be suspended. Mr. Chairman. I hope you are still here, because of course this raises some questions. What is the result of the Senate vote if the state's appeal fails? Can the Senate vote on a law that may be rendered ineffective by the judge? What does the outcome of the vote in the First Chamber and the appeal result in the proposal we are debating today? Do I understand now from the answers we received this morning that the Minister is choosing this new basis anyway and that the old one is going to fall? That seems to me to be the logical route, but I would like to hear a clear confirmation from the Minister of Justice. Could the Prime Minister also respond to this chaos? This is more than just a legal setback, isn't it? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this not so intelligent curfew is not going to help support that curfew? Mr. Chairman. Let us assume for a moment that the outcome is that today's proposal is not abundant. Then the ministerial arrangement will be suspended. I would then like to point out to the Minister that a number of my fellow Members have also done so on the special procedure of the Corona Act, which is laid down in Article 58c. It stipulates that a ministerial arrangement such as this is to be sent to both chambers within two days and that it will not enter into force until one week after these arrangements have been submitted. That route is not being followed now; it is believed that this would have happened. But that should be the case in my view in the future. My question to the Minister of Justice is: do I understand? Is it indeed the intention that any new arrangements should once again be subject to the rule of law? Mr. Chairman. Then the fines. Suppose the outcome is that the appeal fails. Then what happens to the curfew fines that have already been written? I think that the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary in particular would like to see this clarified. In my view, more than 7,000 criminal decisions have already been taken and there are thousands of CVs to be assessed. Mr. Chairman. Even if the old regulation remains in place, there is of course a chance that a lot of people will take a chance in court to challenge that fine. After all, ammunition has been delivered. Will the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister provide additional work for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary? If so, can they also count on additional support from the government? After all, the government has caused this legally rather uncomfortable situation. It seems strange to me, then, to wallow all that on the sign of the judiciary. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the proportionality of curfew. The question of whether it is necessary remains a bit above the market. Because the impact on our freedom is still high and the basis for whether the measure works is not so simple. Let me add: the situation remains very worrying. We must take seriously the OMT's warnings about the advance of the British variant. If things go wrong, then things go wrong: more infections, more sick, more deaths. That's what the OMT emphasized again yesterday. We agreed that next week there would be a new weighing moment or the curfew would be the right means. It is important that the balance is carefully made. I therefore call on the cabinet to do something serious about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u117	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The wave of 170,000 infections that didn't come," that's a telling headline in an article by the Volkskrant. Today an article in the daily newspaper will be added. There was a math error. The frightening prediction of the British variant has not come true and yet the policy has not been relaxed. There is room for intensive care, one of the pillars on which the corona policy is based, and yet we do not get a little more freedom. The lockdown has been extended until 2 March and the curfew must not be disturbed. I was against it and I remain against it. I'm not the only one. The level of support for the obligation is declining. The title of this law also works in the hand, because almost everyone realizes that being in the outdoors results in less contamination than staying inside. In the explanatory statement we read the actual purpose of the law: to reduce social contacts in the evening hours. That is literally what it says: it is intended "to further adapt the behavior and that social contacts no longer take place in the evening hours." It is therefore not a matter for the legislator to spend time in the open air, but rather to prevent social contacts in the evening. The government isn't supposed to decide how many people you can have in the house; fortunately. Forbidden to be on the streets at night is therefore a kind of legal detour to intervene on the number of people visiting each other. That makes this a crooked law with a weird title. Why can't an adult go around a block in the evening and why can't we, especially now that it's getting lighter at night and the temperature is getting better, go for a ride after nine? I believe the virologists and other experts who say that banning this has little effect on the number of infections. However, this measure is being pushed through. Also in the legislative proposal, the effect is not clear, and that is the least you can expect when you restrict fundamental rights. The law is based on suspicions and calculation errors and is therefore disproportionate. But there are other things that cause great concern. I'm gonna use a big word. I don't do that fast, but the situation is bad. I call this "abuse of power." The cabinet draws power in an unDutch way at the expense of our fundamental rights and our democratic rule of law. For what happened after the judgment of the judge who immediately declared the curfew invalid? The cabinet went into an unprecedented turbo mode. There was a bloody request for suspension, and everything worked out in a couple of hours. An ordinary lawyer has to wait a week for it if he wants to apply for suspension. The State was also able to regulate it unilaterally. The opposing party was confronted with an emergency hearing at 4 p.m. What about the equality of process? Was the state favored by the judiciary? Was this abuse of power? I'd like a detailed explanation of how this went down and who pulled the strings. What was the role of the Minister of Justice and who obeyed? Since this affects the rule of law at its core, I would like to receive all available documentation that will allow us to deduce the course of events before the second deadline begins. At the same time, this bill was written in the Ministry of Justice with the greatest turbospeed. The proposal was not submitted for consultation. The Permanent Chambers Committee on Justice and Security agreed to a super-short procedure. The king already signed the same day. Why? Why not wait as a parliament for an appeal first? Why submit controversial proposals as a outgoing cabinet? Or is it the case that the cabinet estimates its chances in appeal on Friday? Madam President. This cabinet has resigned because of very serious failure, a failure in which the rule of law shook on its foundations. That's not an exaggeration. It's a fact that people without a trace of evidence were treated like criminals. Families have been destroyed and lives have been destroyed. This resigned cabinet should keep away from restricting fundamental rights and controversial proposals for which there is less and less support, especially if the effect is not crystal clear and especially if this issue lies with the judiciary. This cabinet has had its chance and, in my view, has been wasted. If the judge decides on Friday that this far-reaching freedom-limiting measure is based on legal quicksand, then it is over with curfew. I'm not going to vote on a law that the judge wants to cut off the pass. I therefore ask the House to postpone the vote on this law until next week. I too agree with the questions that have been asked about the fines already imposed. I'm closing up. How do we look back at this time and this cabinet in 20 years? I fear the worst: a time when the parliament was mangled by an already resigned cabinet; a cabinet that destroyed the economy, made entrepreneurs dependent on state aid, wanted to ban social contacts and cut off the judiciary. I sincerely hope, very sincerely, that I am mistaken and that things will be different. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u119	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u120	Thank you, Madam President. The decision to introduce curfew was really a difficult decision, even for us in the Chamber, because the Corona Act did not provide for this new measure to be removed from the legal toolbox. It also led to a lot of discussion in society. We know that it is a measure for which there is a great deal of support on the one hand, but on the other hand it is a very heavy burden on people, for example people with mental health problems. There should then be no discussion about the legal validity of the measure, but that has now been done. With the judge's ruling on Tuesday, the cabinet got the lid on the nose. In substance, the court held that an incorrect procedure had been followed and, procedurally, the court considered that the introduction of a measure should be better substantiated. The justification is insufficient, and the proportionality of the measure is therefore under discussion. This undermines the basis of support. Mr. Chairman. The worst part is that this could have been prevented. The cabinet can really count on that. The Council of State advised the government to settle the curfew from the outset through the Corona Act. In last week's debate in the Chamber, I asked the Minister of Justice about this, but several colleagues did. He was very certain at the time: you cannot regulate this in the Temporary Law measures covid-19, no matter how you turn it or turn it; it must through the Act extraordinary powers civil authority. But precisely this point was contested by the judge in her judgment on Tuesday: there was no mention of the necessary superflux in the procedure followed by the cabinet. The judge was more firm than the Council of State, and the court still has to rule on it, but nevertheless, the certainty with which the Minister spoke to the Chamber last week was unjustified. We have now gone from the use of the Act of extraordinary powers of civil authority to a separate law, and yet now to accommodation in the corona law as part of the Public Health Act. I would ask the Cabinet to take us back into consideration in order to take the final approach to the route of the Corona Act, which, on the contrary, has additional guarantees for the citizen and for the involvement of the Chambers, and from the outset not to follow the route recommended by the Council of State. Was this legal stubbornness or did something else play with it? Mr. Chairman. I have some questions about the bill. Why does the cabinet not wait for the appeal and it is already filing an emergency law? We are not getting an answer to a lot of questions right now, because the case is still under trial. This makes it difficult for the Chamber to properly assess this bill, precisely on the basis of the proportionality that many questions have now been asked about. This debate is necessary for that purpose. I would ask the cabinet to come up with answers in this debate, for example, to Question 57, which I have asked, about arguing the need to restrict fundamental rights. Is this measure proportionate to the objective? The answer to this is 'a great deal has already been said about this in the debates in the Chamber', and that is what is being referred to. I would like to have an answer to this question today, because this is important in order to assess the proportionality of this bill. Mr. Chairman. This law sets out a better legal basis, with more safeguards. But on Tuesday, the Senate will vote on the deployment through the Act of extraordinary bourgeois authority. I've been practicing it, Mr. Chairman, this is the third time. Last time I made a mistake. The Christian Union calls on the cabinet to make a choice now, and after the ruling of the court, I can imagine that the cabinet that wants to wait to repeal that law, if this emergency law we are discussing today, will be passed in both chambers and will have the power of law. Mr. Chairman. Then there's a question about the OMT opinion. I see a difference in yesterday's OMT opinion and the response of the cabinet. The cabinet says in the answer to question 37 that it may be assumed that a significant part of the current reduction is caused by the curfew. The OMT indeed claims to see a link, but also points out that the uncertainty margins in the forecasts are currently too broad for a definitive conclusion to be drawn. Then I ask the cabinet if it is not too certain again. An important point, also in the opinion of the Council of State, is the balance of interests. This measure not only has an impact on the fight against the corona virus, it is also a substantial restriction of fundamental rights and the freedom of movement of people. It has bigger, wider consequences. The Council of State says that this consideration cannot be based solely on the OMT opinion. Then I ask the cabinet: what else are the support and broader consideration of the cabinet based on? What does that tell you? Can the cabinet go into that today? One of the tests to be carried out is that the cabinet should indicate why the use of curfew is really inevitable and whether less far-reaching alternatives have been considered. I ask the government to deal with this this afternoon, because that has not been done in writing. Can the Minister indicate to what extent this law allows for regional tailor-made work? Can the Minister give examples of situations where a mayor can grant an exemption? Is that for the whole town? Does it also apply to individuals? I'd like more explanation, including for the history of law. Last week, we gave the Cabinet the opportunity to come forward next week with more insight into the effects of curfew deployment. We have done so because it is important to bring down the infection rates, because we are concerned about the spread of the coronavirus and new variants, to relieve the burden of care and also to make it possible, for example, for schools to open up again. The Christian Union wants to give the cabinet room to come up with a better foundation, now that a better legal foundation has been chosen with this law. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with the following words. Two important moments are coming up in the next few days. First of all, that's the court's judgment tomorrow. And next week, the cabinet put in a new weighing moment about the curfew. There are serious questions about the proportionality of the measure. That's what the judge does. That's what the Council of State does. We do that; we do that again today, here in the Chamber. We did that last week when we talked about extending the curfew. The cabinet asked for more time and we gave that time. For the Christian Union, after the court ruling and the opinion of the Council of State, the signal is orange. The cabinet will really have to come up with a better basis next week than it is now if we are to be able to accept a further extension of the curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u121	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u122	Thank you, Mr President. The protection of the rule of law says that every political party today has a high priority, following the horrible childcare allowance affair. In it, citizens were in front of the State before the courts. They did not stand a chance of a fair trial, because the general principles of law and the principles of good administration appeared to be inoperative in court cases in which it was too hot for the State. Every party, from left to right, felt that the State had not given the citizen a chance, that this should never have happened and that this should never happen again. Mr. Chairman. The rule of law is cornered, really cornered. We've already established that. This cabinet has resigned and promised to get well, but this week the outgoing cabinet will do everything it can to draw to itself the independent course of justice, this time about the curfew, rücksichtslos. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this debate, I made the proposal for an urgent law on curfew to be declared directly controversial. There was little support for that at the time. I will now explain why that law should be declared controversial. Mr. Chairman. The curfew is a very far-reaching violation of everyone's freedom of movement. It violates our fundamental rights and those of the ECHR, the European Convention on Human Rights. Apart from that, it is not only our freedom of movement that is at stake. The rule of law is also affected by this law of curfew. Mr. Chairman. At the end of last year we spent a long and extensive debate in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber on the Corona Wealth Act. For months, the cabinet and the House of Representatives have discussed the content of the special temporary corona law. The main stumbling block in this draft law was the way in which the Minister of Health drew exceptionally much power by removing the representatives of the people. This was only partially repaired in the latest version sent to the Chamber. That's why I voted against this Corona Warfare Act. That aside, Mr. Chairman. Then the curfew. The very controversial curfew did not occur throughout the concept. Every suggestion to that effect was rejected last year. Everyone remembers the very first motion on curfew, the Wilders motion, which was put to the vote on 4 November 2020. It asked the government not to turn into a curfew, because this is a disproportionate freedom-limiting measure to combat corona, and because, according to the OMT, it has no medical basis, but is merely intended to stimulate a sense of urgency. Mr. Chairman. This motion has been passed. Only the VVD, the Christian Union and the CDA voted against. How different is the situation now with the parties. Now, a few months later, is it a proportionate measure? Is it necessary? Are the interests well-balanced? Is the curfew as a measure proportional? That was and is not sufficiently motivated, according to the court and according to the Council of State. I wholeheartedly agree with the previous speakers who believe that the final version of the emergency law should also be submitted to the Council of State, given the changes in a law in a formal sense. I would like to join in that. Again, the answer to question 5 of the Chamber's written questions on this curfew clearly shows: "it is proposed that, because of the simultaneous introduction of both measures, the effect of curfew cannot be assessed separately from the adjustment of the visitor restriction." And: "Because of the short duration of the measure, the OMT has not yet been able to rule on the basis of a calculated reproduction number." Strangely enough, we heard Mr Van Dissel on behalf of the OMT in the courtroom and outside it argue that the curfew is really necessary in the fight against the coronavirus, but we can't really measure its effectiveness, so we still can't. Mr. Chairman. Today, as a Chamber, we have to pick up the shrapnel of the cabinet, has just been said by the SP. This legal gossip is very damaging to the image of public policy and our democratic rule of law. We cannot accept as a Chamber that the Cabinet throws disproportionate emergency laws through both chambers because it cannot afford a second failure in the appeal decision, tomorrow. This is an ongoing process of justice. It can't be that if the court's ruling doesn't please the cabinet, this goes on appeal, and with steam and boiling water tries to drive an emergency bill through both Chambers, which allows the curfew to stay in place, no matter what the court decides tomorrow. Instead of waiting for the court's ruling, as it should be in a rule of law in which the separation of powers, i.e. the trias politician, is respected. What we are now in is an amazing piece of administrative muscle. All at the expense of our rule of law. Mr. Chairman. The court responded to the cabinet's wish by responding to the desire to suspend the operation of the court's ruling. This took place around 8.30 p.m., neatly on time to maintain the curfew of 9 p.m. Considering how long and desperate the victims of the child care allowance affair had to wait with the many public authorities, including the judiciary, the same government in the form of the cabinet should be particularly happy that the court of The Hague was so sympathetic to this request. But the best was still there. For the cabinet, even this cognition of the court of The Hague was not enough. Instead of waiting for those few hours during the trial and the examination of the appeal, the cabinet, without any cans or blush, used its very unique position by confiscating the transmission time of the NIS in order to repeat, repeat and repeat its views built on virological advice in this course of justice in a press conference. But it doesn't really show a level playing field if the cabinet can insert a substantive press conference between the sessions, while the citizen doesn't have that stage. If that's fair, I'll ask the cabinet. Does the citizen still have a fair chance? Mr. Chairman. The appeal court may maintain the court's judgment and allow the cabinet time to restore the situation. Our Chamber has become a legal pawn in the coalition's chess game, in which only one outcome is possible. That is at all costs to maintain the curfew. Again an emergency law replacing the Extraordinary Powers Civil Authority Act, i.e. with the comments made in that regard, as a basis for curfew so that the judgment in an appeal and the emergency law are likely to fit perfectly in terms of timing. This cabinet wants to be right at all costs: misconception of the parliament and, in fact, total contempt for the citizens of the Netherlands. "Together against corona," this slogan of the government can be read everywhere. "Together" implies balance and it implies proportionality. "Together" also means giving each other space, just where there are great differences of opinion. We absolutely don't have to share each other's visions. However, in the rule of law that is the Netherlands, it is important that we continue to create a level playing field for all parties at any time, especially in and around the court. In its new composition, the House of Representatives should therefore be much more keen on the protection of the rule of law. Therefore, there is no alternative but to declare this emergency law controversial today and to await the court's ruling properly. Mr. Chairman. The chamber must pull an emergency brake. A dangerous precedent is being created. As a democratic rule of law, we are moving in a dangerously inclined direction. This cabinet may dismiss motions passed on the non-imposition of curfew, may lose a trial at first instance in the missionary state and at the time when the suspensive effect of the judgment is in force an emergency law that allows citizens to lock up permanently, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, inside their homes without properly motivating the proportionality and subsidiarity of the measure, all of this prejudging the ruling on appeal. That affects our rule of law. We cannot and cannot accept this as a room. Mr. Chairman. If the Chamber does not support my request to declare this curfew law controversial, I will, of course, vote against the curfew, that may be clear. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u123	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a suspension of about half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u124	Let's move on to the debate. We have arrived at the answer from the cabinet, but I see Mr Krol standing at the interrupting microphone. Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u125	I would like to raise a point of order, Madam President. I asked in my contribution whether we could receive all the documents relating to how it went last Tuesday in the suspension. I haven't received them yet. I would like to receive them and if necessary ask for support, but when I hear they're coming in now and a few minutes, I'd like to wait for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u126	The Prime Minister asks which documents you mean exactly, Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u127	I had asked if we could see all the documents underlying what happened last Tuesday and how fast everything was for each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u128	Maybe Grapperhaus can say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u129	Then we'll have to clean up again. Perhaps you could say something from the small microphone, Mr. Grapperhaus? Otherwise, the messenger will have to clean everything up again. You can do it sitting down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u130	Very briefly...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u131	You can just turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u132	Mr. Grapperhaus must hold the microphone down. That's what we always have in the Trêveszaal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u133	Test one, two, three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u134	He's doing it. Now we expect something special when you start like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u135	Mr President, perhaps just a career as a stadium announcer! Let me just briefly tell you what happened on Tuesday. The court ruling has become known to us at about half past ten, I think; I want to get rid of the exact time. Then, in an extensive Webex conference with officials, the national attorney and myself, I asked whether it was possible, under Article 254 of the Code of Civil Procedure, not only to bring an interim action in the near future, but also to bring an action for suspension of the judgment until the appeal is dealt with. That was exactly, almost telepathic, the same idea from Mr. Veldhuis, the national attorney. There's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u136	But it's about the pieces. Are there any pieces?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u137	That happened orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u138	There was an oral exchange.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u139	I do not know whether the national attorney has submitted anything in writing for that request, but I am quite prepared to have it come to your Chamber as soon as possible, if there is one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u140	Then hopefully that's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u141	Thank you. I hope to receive it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u142	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u143	Then it's cleared. Mr President, if you allow it, the idea would be as follows. I say a few things about the whole issue of urgency. Why a curfew? It is a question of proportionality, and that is why it is a question of proportionality. Then the Minister for Justice and Security will follow the legal process, including the question of urgency. So that would be the main distribution of our response. Of course, I will also say a few things, apart from the proportionality of this measure, about the questions that have been asked about the impact of measures on our society and how we look at them. A number of comments have also been made. I repeat very briefly what I said at the press conference on Tuesday. We naturally regret the situation which has arisen, because it gives us uncertainty. That is why it is important for the cabinet to try to achieve that clarity as soon as possible. We are doing so both through the case that has been brought before the Court, the urgent appeal against the ruling of the Court of Appeal, but also through the legislative proposal that we are discussing today. After all, there is a lot of support for curfew in the Netherlands. People are aware that we are facing a very serious crisis in health care in this country. That is why we have taken these steps immediately. So that's a brief introduction. Let me now turn to the various questions that relate to the necessity and effectiveness of curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u144	On the previous point, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u145	The Prime Minister has finished his brief introduction. I think it is important to say in general that I expected you to start with some sort of mea culpa, because you have made a huge mess of it. Because, of course, it was an embarrassing display we've seen in the last few days. Turns out you used the wrong law. Members of Parliament have warned you of this for a number of reasons: the wrong law, not proportionality. The judge just wiped out your whole plan, which had already entered into force. From all sides, you yourself have completely destroyed the basis for that curfew. What I would like to ask, in particular, before you refer the questions to the Minister of Justice again, is this. You have, as a hare so quickly, had officials make a law and put an appeal before the court in The Hague. But let's say you're just Henk, Jan, Peter, or do I know one way or the other, and you've had a problem in Groningen with the gas that the government caused, which makes your house almost collapse. Or suppose you've gotten into trouble because of the premium affair, caused by, among other things, the Rutte Cabinets. Then you'll have to wait years before you get a concession. Then you'll have to wait years for a law to come, if it comes. Then you have to wait years before you can go to court or before Mr. Rutte does anything. And what do you say to all these people? Rutte only does what if it suits him and the rest of the Netherlands can choke? What's your message to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u146	Mr. Chairman. What a total bullshit. Like I'm waiting for a curfew! Like someone in this country is waiting for a curfew. We are all in the process here of fighting one of the biggest post-war crises in this country. A crisis that directly affects our safety, our public health and has already killed thousands of people. The excess mortality rate is enormous. This crisis is causing a great many people very much concern. The crisis has enormous effects on our economy and on the social and psychological well-being of our country, of young people, of the elderly, of everyone. The crisis also has a huge impact on companies. We believe that this curfew is necessary, and I shall continue to support it in this way in order to combat this serious public health crisis. We also believe that the legal basis on which we based that curfew, namely that Wbbbg, which has special powers of civil authority, is a good legal basis. That's why we've appealed and we'll plead our case to the court. That is what we are doing, but at the same time we also want to create that clarity as soon as possible. That is why we have said: we are also making this emergency law, in the way it is now and after consulting the Council of State, to ensure that there can be no misunderstanding in the Netherlands about how important it is that we maintain that curfew. But it is not true that I am chasing a hobby here, as Mr Wilders now claims, as if I am suddenly in favour of curfews from my earliest childhood. This is necessary because at the moment, hopefully as short as possible, we need only this instrument, such a curfew, as part of the fight against virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u147	Then you shouldn't have made such a mess of things before. Over the past few years, you have cut back on all your carelessness. You've closed down hospitals. You didn't give the nurses and nurses who work there, the care staff, a salary. You've completed intensive care units. You've closed emergency rooms. As a result, we have indeed come into a situation, because of the fault of you and the VVD, that you have come up with that kind of horse money as a curfew. If you had had that in order, if you had volunteered to vaccinate more quickly and if you had put more order in the test policy, then that panic, that horse medicine of that mandatory curfew, would not have been necessary at all. I insist that it's not legal. That says not only Geert Wilders, but so has the judge so far, because the appeal has only been said tomorrow: it is unlawful; you have used the wrong law and you have failed to demonstrate proportionality. That's the same thing the PVV's been calling out here I know how long. And Mr. Prime Minister, I want you to answer this, because I'm sure a lot of people have been listening who have been victims of the Surgery affair or who have been waiting for compensation in Groningen for years. And then there's a Mark Rutte, while other people in the Netherlands are in trouble because they've been identified as a fraud while they weren't in the Supplementary Act, or because they had the bad luck of living in Groningen, where you were winning gas, which made their house half collapsed. They haven't seen a law after years, no compensation for the costs and no Mark Rutte who went through the fire before. And now you've got a problem of your own. You're making the Netherlands' problem of "in five hours we'll make a law, and we'll go to that judge; go, Van Dissel, go there," while it's not a substantive hearing. What are you doing? You are the dishonesty that has become flesh in the Netherlands. People want that, too. Why not the normal people and you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u148	First of all, in recent years, billions and billions more have gone to health care, for a good reason. The health care system is in the field for all of us. If we are faced with health problems, health care will ensure that we receive good, loving care. That is why it is very important that we do so. All healthcare systems throughout the Western world have noticed that they are able, yes, to absorb short peaks. But we have discussed it more often here: on a long-term pandemic, which puts enormous extra pressure on care for a long time, our systems are not sufficiently calculated. One of the major issues facing us in the years to come is how we organise public health so that it is able to cope with long-term peaks. That's one. Two. As far as I'm concerned, that curfew will disappear immediately. He's not here for me. That curfew is there because we are all here, and I have just said that 150 MPs and 23 cabinet members must fight a serious crisis in our public health and because the cabinet, knowing the enormous consequences of these measures, is convinced that, unfortunately, we need that curfew in addition to many other instruments. We believe that this is the only way in which we will be able to achieve this new English variant, too, as far as possible, so that we can push out a third wave for as long as possible and so that we have gradually vaccinated more people. That is why it is now necessary to have that curfew in the package of measures. And we believe that the legal basis is the right one. We are therefore doing this in order to keep the country safe and to ensure that public health in our country, of all people, is as well protected as possible. Therefore, with Ferd Grapperhaus, with Hugo de Jonge, with Tamara of Ark and the entire cabinet, we take all these measures, fortunately always with broad support in the Chamber. If we make mistakes, I'll admit them right here. We believe that we have chosen a legal basis here that will stand, but we will see that in the appeal. But we also want clarity. That is why it is so important that this emergency law should now be dealt with here as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u149	When it comes to care, Mr Rutte is just kidding the Netherlands here too. You're just kidding people. In the public health budget of your own minister, not least one of your party's health ministers, you will see in the so-called "wood charcoal sketch" in the 2021 budget for this year, which you are aiming to close down 50% of hospitals by 2030. That is the policy of the cabinet! It's just in the budget! So don't come to me with: we need to invest more. Crocodile tears. You still want to close down 50% of the hospitals. It's just in your own budget. The second point, Madam President. I note, also for the people at home, that for the third time the Prime Minister does not agree. I don't care what you think you should do for this law. We have asked you: do you still think of the ordinary Dutch? Do you also think of the Dutch with their own problems, which also sometimes have to appeal, who suffer from the gas in Groningen, for example, or who suffer from the problem of supplementing? They didn't see Mark Rutte, Mr Rutte. They didn't see Mark Rutte who said that when it got out, I'm gonna make a law in four hours, I'm gonna go to the Chamber in five hours, that's gonna have to go to the First Chamber tomorrow, I'm gonna go to a judge to fix it, I'm gonna take care of the people who are in trouble, me, Mark Rutte, that I'm gonna have a solution in a day or two. They've had to wait for years, and that makes your story so hypocritical.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u150	Mr Wilders is, of course, right in saying that in recent years we have faced two very serious issues. These are indeed the earthquakes in Groningen, as a result of gas extraction, and of course the terrible affair with the childcare allowance. He's absolutely right about that. Those are terrible events, and we're working very hard to get that under control. With regard to the Groningen gas, we have managed to reduce very quickly that, where we thought that gas extraction would continue until 2030. That's what this cabinet is going to do, Eric Wiebes and the whole cabinet: to get us off the Groningen gas much faster. And is working with man and power to work in Groningen on both repairing and strengthening. Then there is the child care allowance. We have discussed the Van Dam report in detail here. The cabinet is working with man and power, with broad support from the Chamber, to ensure that we are no longer talking about compensation, because the parents are right to say: we do not want to be compensated, but to get back what we are entitled to, that we are entitled to repay the parents what they should get back and do so in a way that they can also make a fresh start, that they can not immediately lose all that money to creditors, but can also make a new start. That is being worked on with man and power at the moment. So it is right that Mr Wilders should draw attention to this. Today we are talking about combating the corona virus, and that is why this measure is needed. If it were necessary at Groningen or during the childcare allowance affair to come up with urgent legislation, we will of course not hesitate for a second. We won't hesitate for a second, but it's three different topics that require their own overall focus, demand their total attention, and they all have the three topics. Today we are talking about the fight against corona and we need curfew, unfortunately, because of the great concern that exists with us, as well as with all the experts and many people in the country, in terms of the still too high levels of infection, the further increase in the English virus and the still too high numbers of people in hospitals, with all the consequences, including for cancer and heart operations, which must also be able to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u151	Finally, Mr President. You know, it's about the same thing. It is about equality of law. It's about how fast you have a minister president who is from the VVD in this case and who's called Mark Rutte and how fast he runs for himself and how fast he runs for the common Dutchman. That's just the same subject, and it's called equality of law. And what do we see now? That those people in Groningen and the victims of the supplement drama are still to a large extent waiting for their money. And what did I expect? That you would run fast for those people and that you wouldn't if it suits you... You say it's the Netherlands, but it's Mark Rutte who suddenly holds a press conference and says: what a shame that judge has done that, I'm now saying to people "keep you on it," I come with an emergency law and it has to be through the Second Chamber on Thursday and through the First Chamber on Friday. He also knew immediately to tell us that Friday is the appeal. He took care of it all. He took care of it all! And the people sitting at home, not Mark Rutte, who can't just call the State Council, who don't have a state attorney, but are happy when they get a lawyer assigned to fight against that big government, those people haven't gotten anything yet. Nothing yet! And now they see you running hard for yourself and they see you doing nothing for them. And this isn't another subject, Mr. Rutte. That's what people are gonna take care of right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u152	I'm only in politics for one reason. I'm not in politics for myself. I'm in politics for one reason, because I love this country very much. And I believe that is true even for Mr Wilders; that is how I know him. He loves this country, too. And I believe that we both have great respect for our compatriots and their wisdom to make sensible decisions. And indeed, sometimes people need the State for protection. This applies to Groningen, which is the case with the terrible child care allowance affair, which the State has failed; Mr Wilders is right to do so. It's being worked with man and power. But that also applies to the fight against corona, when a pandemic rolls over our country and a lot of people are very concerned about their health, but also about their parents and their grandparents, and those of people with weak health. That's why I'm in politics; not for myself. That curfew isn't for Mark Rutte. I don't need that curfew personally for my happiness. We need that curfew because we have to fight that pandemic in this country. Unfortunately, this instrument is needed at the moment. That does not alter what Mr Wilders rightly points out about the seriousness of Groningen and the earthquakes there, and the seriousness of the resolution of the child care allowance affair. And I can assure him: that has my permanent attention, just as much as the resolution of this terrible pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u153	The Prime Minister has a firm faith in the legal basis chosen by the cabinet. However, today we are debating a proposal for an emergency law, which at least calls for the idea that there have been some defects in that confidence due to the ruling of the judge. Now, of course, you can have a legal discussion about that, especially if the area is unexplored. It may be that the court will be in a different place tomorrow. And I'm sure there's also some people who say it might be possible. But the fact is that everyone actually says: it is much more logical to go for the route that is now ahead. That is what the Council of State says, that is to say several Members of Parliament, that is to say experts; I think Mr Van der Staaij was right to point that out. So it is said: it is much more logical to choose the route that is now ahead, namely to modify that Wpg. I see the Minister of Justice shaking his head now, but it is ultimately also his own proposal. My question to the Prime Minister is: can he not just cavalierly acknowledge that the turnoff he has chosen may not be convenient and that he has caused confusion and unrest about that curfew? Wouldn't that just do justice to the reality we've seen in the past week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u154	We sincerely believe that using the Wbbbg was the right route. Why was that the right route and, in our opinion, is that still the right route? Because of the fact that these are restrictions of movement combined with the great urgency. So we believe that that is the right route, and we will, of course, also try to keep that up in the appeal case. I am not going to have a discussion with the welfare judge, I am not going to stand here and I am not going to do that either, and Mr Grapperhaus will not do that. That will, of course, happen tomorrow in court. But we do believe that was and still is the best route. At the same time, there is that statement. And Fred Grapperhaus and I immediately realized on Tuesday that if there is such a ruling from the welfare court, you also want to have absolute clarity. And it is in the interest of this absolute clarity that we should now also deal with this emergency law. I am very glad that the Chamber has made that possible, and I thank you very much for that. In this way, the emergency law, I understand, could be dealt with in the First Chamber tomorrow, if the bill passed the Second Chamber today. I think that is extremely important, because that way that clarity is given to the Netherlands, in the midst of a serious pandemic that many people are deeply concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u155	In my view, this absolute clarity would have been beneficial if we had opted for this turn-off right away. We would probably have been able to avoid the problems of earlier this week. This question was put to two experts this morning by Mrs Kuik. That question was answered with a full answer: yes, this is a better route. The Council of State also said this in its opinion on this proposal, and the Council of State said it last week. The Prime Minister is actually persevering by saying that we have done well. That's what he stays in, while actually all the other people who know about it think differently. That suggests a lack of self-criticism. I would really like to call on the Prime Minister to look a little more in the mirror and perhaps acknowledge that the cabinet has chosen a wrong turn here, with consequences. This is not some kind of legal conflict, because that is not so interesting in itself. No, the problem was that the Netherlands spent a whole day looking at unrest over a measure which is not entirely undisputed. I think that's where the problem lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u156	That will have to be proved in the appeal case. Again, I am not going to walk through the ruling of the welfare judge here in the Lower House and check all that. I don't think that's appropriate right now. That must be taken up in the appeal in the legal column of our trias politicians. We do believe that the land we have chosen, namely through the Wbbbg, was and still is the obvious and the right one. We shall make that plea. At the same time, it is of the utmost importance that there is clarity. The ruling of the Supreme Court threatens to seriously reduce that clarity. That is why it is extremely important to ensure that we bring forward this urgent legislative proposal here. And thank you again for being able to deal with it so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u157	The Prime Minister continues to insist that the chosen route is the best route through state emergency law. I'm a little surprised. I'd like to be clear with the Prime Minister. If the government wins the case tomorrow in court proceedings, will we actually see this law in the Official Journal or does the Prime Minister say: no, then we can actually go on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u158	I have heard that question from Mr Hijink and I understand it. But it is not possible for me to answer that question with a full yes, because tomorrow the appeal is in court. All kinds of other elements may be part of the appeal. That means that's not possible. When it comes to the question of whether this bill is at the top of the existing route, yes or no, we will give the Court's ruling as soon as possible. Then we'll tell you how we're gonna deal with that. But also in the interests of that trial tomorrow and that appeal, I cannot say yes or no to this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u159	Mr Hijink, and then I have Mrs Kuik and Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u160	That's a really weird situation, isn't it? Then we are standing here making a law and tomorrow you want to go to the Supreme Court to deal with the same law. That law should provide a better legal basis for the curfew, on which the Council of State, Mr Van der Staaij and others have hammered several times. The cabinet says: none of this really needs to be done; we still think that it is better through emergency legislation. But if we have passed a law here and in the First Chamber, can we be assured today that it will be the new legal basis for curfew? Surely we must be able to get that assurance today? Otherwise, we're really here to make a spare number.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u161	What Mr Hijink says is obvious in itself, but a definite yes or no also depends on how the appeal goes tomorrow. There may also be other aspects that I cannot see here. I do not think it is in the interests of the court tomorrow to say yes or no. But, of course, immediately after the court has ruled, we will let the Chamber know what that means, also for this law. I understand very well what Mr. Hijink is hinting at. I understand that very well. That may even be obvious, but before you say yes or no to it, you should also look at what comes out of that appeal case, how that goes and what other aspects might be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u162	I'm not hitting so much. The Prime Minister hints that, depending on the ruling tomorrow, the cabinet could also continue along the path of emergency law. That was cracked by several, by the Council of State, by members of this Chamber, by the judge this week, as an unwise way. If we are to make a new law here, which the Council of State and others also say is a better basis for curfew, then I would like the Prime Minister to be sure that he chooses that better basis and not stubborn and stubborn on the route that has been broken down by all sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u163	We certainly do not go on stubbornly or stubbornly on a particular route. Definitely not. Only, there's an appeal before the court now. That is, of course, also about issues such as how you deal with the fines and all that sort of thing. There are many aspects to this. That also depends on what the ruling looks like tomorrow, so before we can say anything about it to the Chamber, I think it is correct to settle the matter first with the court and then to inform the Chamber immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u164	Mrs Kuik and then Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u165	When we had the technical briefing this morning, we asked the state lawyers and legal experts: what is your advice? They actually said both of them that we heard back from other sources too, and that it is wise to simply withdraw it and to replace the bill we are now debating. That's also a route you can take.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u166	Then why don't you... I get that. That may also be the sensible route, but I think we can only say that after the appeal has been served. That appeal is now pending and, of course, also affects other aspects of the execution of the curfew in recent weeks. It also depends on the wider operation of the Wbbbg, also in the future. So I think it's right to settle that. I hear very well what the Chamber is saying here. I understand that, too. But before you say "yes" or "no" to that, I think it's nice to have that case settled at court first tomorrow, to have that ruling, and then to immediately inform the Chamber. Would we then report something to the Chamber that you say "how can that be?', This is, of course, also the time to have a debate on this with each other immediately. I hear very well what you are saying, and I think we are going to avoid that debate, but I think it is only right that we should do so once we have settled the main issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u167	I do not think it is so relevant to review the precedent of this emergency law, given the rush we are now in. That's one. Secondly, the separation of all kinds of fines that have been handed out is annoying, but the fact that we are standing here because there is a legal issue I am looking for just a word of error is our own fault. So you have to accept the consequences of that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u168	Of course, we appealed because we didn't think there was a legal error. But I think we all want clarity. That's why it's so important that there's this emergency law. We will report to the Chamber immediately as soon as the verdict is given on the final overlying of this emergency act above the existing route. But there may also be other elements of that case, of that procedure. Perhaps Grapperhaus will be able to go into that in a moment, but I think it would be wise to give that final statement immediately after the verdict. Of course, if that is a statement the Chamber says "what is that about, what are they doing here?', I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We are not waiting for that debate either, so I think that we really can come out of it wisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u169	It's kind of like we're sitting here a little stupid nothin', because the cabinet keeps sticking around in: man, we haven't actually done anything wrong, nothing's going on. I think that's too easy, because you'll just have to accept that what's ahead has just not gone well. Then you can honestly say "we did not do well and we now choose the alternative route" instead of persevering in an appeal. I do not agree with Mr Wilders' views on curfew or not, but I do understand his mood a little when he says that this also undermines confidence in the crisis approach. It is not just a question of making a legal mistake, but also of trusting each other in the capacity of the cabinet to make sound legislation, to take us properly into account and to take our critical questions seriously. I think that was his call, too. I kind of miss that in the Prime Minister's attitude, but I now miss that in his answers, because they actually seem to be continuing on the road that has already been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u170	I would point out, however, that not only did the Court of Justice say something about whether this was the right route in terms of urgency, but also about proportionality. So there are several aspects of cut. So it is really important that the appeal should be brought. I think it's important to all of us. It is broader than just the urgency and the precise legal basis. It also has to do with proportionality. So I think it's really right to do that now that the appeal is being brought. Of course, we do not just come here to the Chamber with a bill. Of course, we do that for a reason. We also understand very well that it does not win the popularity prize if we say later that we do not use that law. I understand that very well, but I think it is nice, now that these two things are running in parallel, to wait for that main point and immediately after that to report to the Chamber. That's not persevering in disarray. That is the belief that there is a sound legal basis under the existing legal route. That is why we are now laying down this law to ensure that it is truly certain. In addition, however, the Court of Justice's ruling of course also raises the question of proportionality. It is wider than just the precise legal instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u171	The Prime Minister does that a lot. Then we have put on the table an argument and then there is another argument, now proportionality. If that is the argument, then that is an additional reason to wait for the appeal before you complete this bill, because that proportionality also applies in the proposal now before you. Or you're convinced you're right, and then you say, "I'm just gonna wait and see, 'cause I trust this will work out." I think that would be an additional argument not to go through with it now. You should have waited for the appeal first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u172	We all want clarity here in the fight against a serious pandemic, don't we? Isn't that why we're doing this? If the appeal ends differently than we think, we want to avoid a legal gap. The question, in my opinion, is: if you win the appeal, what law is above? I have heard very well what Mrs Kuik, Mr Hijink and others have said about this. We will also inform the Chamber immediately after that appeal of what we are doing with that ruling, also in relation to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u173	The Prime Minister said: "We come up with this law and we want to discuss it quickly, because then there will be more clarity." To be honest, I have a feeling that a lot of things are going to get mixed up. There is still a case to be brought before the Court of Justice, but since the government is apparently not sure of the case, a law is also being filed, which is not in fact in line with the court ruling that is now before us. That raises a lot of questions. That is why the question of what clarity is now being given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u174	I believe that Tuesday's decision was about proportionality and the issue of urgency and on that basis the right legal instrument. I shall now come to the question of proportionality. Of course, those two things are at issue in that appeal case. Perhaps it is good, Mr President, that Grapperhaus will also say something about this in a moment from the Justice Department. We also consider it important in relation to the appeal... You never know exactly which aspects and elements are further covered. That appeal is now in play. We'd like to wait and see them carefully, and immediately after that, we'll inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u175	That would have been my preference, too, to wait neatly for the appeal and then to inform the Chamber. I think we have some real clarity. On the contrary, we have a great deal of uncertainty about two tracks that are being followed at the same time and which raise the question: could it be that, despite the fact that it has weighed this conscientiously, the government has made a wrong choice...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u176	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u177	... in the basis and also in the assessment of proportionality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u178	As far as the latter is concerned, we are really convinced that this is not the case, because the instrument is necessary because of the serious situation with the pandemic. With regard to the chosen legal instrument, we think we have chosen the right route, but that will have to be proved in the appeal. You don't want any clarity. If the verdict is positive, we will immediately report to the Chamber what this means for this bill. I hear very well that people say: we have not debated a bill that will not enter into force for six or seven hours in the near future. I think it's nice to make that final after the court ruling. It might also be the case that the court does not agree with us, and then it is of course very important that at that time there should be clarity as to this important instrument of curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u179	Yes, but the tricky thing is that, for example, when it comes to proportionality, the Prime Minister seems to say: it is necessary and necessary, whatever a judge thinks, because that is what we think. It is also possible for a judge to review very carefully and say: Prime Minister, Government, which is clear, is that it could bring health benefits from the point of view of the fight against virus, but also have a clear picture of the possible disadvantages. That could also be a reason for a government to look again after a ruling on appeal to see if it was indeed right. It seems as if you are actually saying: no, we are not open to that, because we believe that we are right. I'm actually missing a piece of reflection on the court ruling. I see that again in the Council of State's opinion on the law we are discussing today. The Council also says: Prime Minister, government, take a closer look at this proportionality, it weighs more explicitly. That point keeps coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u180	What I think the Council of State is saying is: show what else you have weighed in addition to the OMT opinion. I will say something about this in a moment, because that is a legitimate point from the Council of State: is it not a copy-pastes of the OMT opinion? I think they're right about that. But of course, this debate is also taking place under the guise of the conviction of the Cabinet, and I also thought that a large part of the Chamber would need it, given the phase of the fight against the pandemic in which we are sitting. We can't miss this instrument right now. That is, of course, all aspects of it. Of course, we will weigh the court judgment very carefully. After that, we'll notify the Room immediately. We also do not want to provoke the feeling of "have we debated for nothing?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u181	Finally, on this point. I realise that the Prime Minister is going into this further, but earlier he briefly indicated: that curfew is needed, because there is an OMT opinion that says that this is an important measure. In view of the ruling of the Court of Justice and the opinion of the Council of State, does he consider that this is too short-sighted, that more weighting is needed in order to determine what measures are necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u182	No, but I will argue in such a way that that weighting has taken place. It's not like we're getting an OMT advice, putting a paint seal on it and saying, "That's it." No, of course there will be a further weighting. I'd like to say a few words about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u183	Good. Then I have Mrs Kröger and then Mr Grothuizen. Right? You look at me like that. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u184	We now have the strange situation that we have two laws to arrange a curfew. The first law is there, because the minister said it really had to be through that instrument. According to him it could not by the covid law; it had to be through that some strange form of the Act extraordinary powers civil authority. Now there's a second law. Why should the cabinet not now opt for the second law, in which the participation from the Chamber is much better secured?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u185	Well, that's obvious, too. Only you ask me to give you a definitive answer. We're running the appeal now. But it is also about other issues. It also has to do with the past few weeks. It also has to do with the way in which the ruling of the Supreme Court on proportionality is weighted in the appeal. That could be an aspect that will return if this law is ever contested. I think it is important to see all this in conjunction with each other. Then, of course, it is obvious that this law is superior. But before you say that definitively, I think it is correct to await that ruling in the appeal and, moreover, to see what other elements in that ruling could lead to further weighting, of course with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u186	The Prime Minister now repeats the same answer all the time, namely that it is obvious, but that there may be other arguments, which he does not then colour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u187	Well, I mentioned a few: the issue of fines that have been distributed, the issue of proportionality and the way in which they are further weighed in the appeal case. Those are, of course, things that we're about to get back from the appeal. Then I think it is fair that we should send a letter to the Chamber as soon as possible and say what that means for this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u188	It means that the cabinet has tried to further underpin the proportionality of the current law, following the opinion of the Council of State. That would only be an argument for using this law, which we are discussing today. So I do not really hear any argument for simply using the law now before us, in which we in the Chamber have much better guaranteed participation, for curfew. Just as we should have done earlier, it was not that the Minister of Justice said it was not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u189	I understand Mrs Kröger's question. The point is, there's more to it than that. We have maintained the curfew over the past few weeks on the basis of the Wbbbg, the ministerial arrangement that is underneath and the continuation law that has been dealt with by the Lower House and which will soon be dealt with by the Upper Chamber. That's an aspect. Then there is the aspect of proportionality. Those various cases are of course also ahead of the appeal. In itself, Mrs Kröger is quite right that this law of course guarantees some of these matters further. That is why I think there will be an answer to the Chamber that the vast majority here will like. But I think that the hard yes or no can only be done on that, and that is what I think is right after that appeal has been served.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u190	In my view, we have just concluded on the issue of proportionality that the current law guarantees it better than the one before it. I can't imagine a court ruling that would make that an argument. So then there is purely the argument of the fines. In the weighting of fines versus participation of the Chamber, I wonder what would be the argument not to go for the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u191	I can't think of it now either, but you're asking me, is it a hard yes? Then I say, that's where it comes in. But I think it is correct to inform the Court of Justice about this after the appeal. That's my only point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u192	I actually agree with Mr Van der Staaij that the answer given by the Prime Minister does not make it any clearer, so let me try to get that focus. If I understand correctly, the Prime Minister says that your Chamber may adopt this bill today, that tomorrow the First Chamber will adopt this bill, that we will wait for the court's ruling on Monday or Tuesday and that we will then see if we can bring this bill into force or continue on the old ground. I think that's what the Prime Minister leaves hanging over the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u193	No, I'm not gonna leave that hanging over the market. I'm just saying, the harsh yes to the question, "does this law enter into force?" At that time I would like to send to the Chamber, also reading the ruling of the court. But, of course, I realize that if we ask the Chamber to debate this law for hours, it will not make us more popular if we say that it does not then apply. In addition, this would immediately lead to an urgent debate, in which the Chamber would agree with it, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u194	The answer is a little ambiguous. I think the correct conclusion is that it is not going to earn the popularity prize either, and I do not think it is going to be on the other side, but the Prime Minister does not want to give the final yes or no either. I do not understand that very well, even if I read the answers to the questions we received today. On page 2 it actually says: the moment this law is in the Official Journal, there is no reason to keep the old route in the air. So I don't really understand why the Prime Minister is holding on to so many beatings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u195	No. In the written answer, that is very clear, certainly. There is still the "if" in it, but that "if" is a security-bound probability. There is now an appeal, so in that sense, of course, those two things run together. I think it is correct, once that appeal has been settled, to report it definitively to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u196	Is it possible to withdraw the appeal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u197	Of course, that's always possible. I have the Minister of Justice with me. I'm a historian now through my legal material, so I really want to ask you if you'd like to discuss that with Ferd Grapperhaus. I think that's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u198	I ask that because it is now very concentrated on the point that we should not disturb the court, but I think there is another question, namely whether or not you want to pursue the appeal. We can talk to you about that. When I am listening to this discussion, I think that the whole House has the feeling that the present law would be desirable. I can imagine that the only reason not to withdraw the appeal is that one does not want to risk the fines being put at risk. I can't reconstruct it any other way. I think it is important to have that clear, precisely in order to maintain support in society. But perhaps the Minister of Justice can comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u199	Perhaps that is a good thing, because there can always be other things to play in such an appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u200	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u201	Then a lot of questions have been cleft away, but there are still a number of things about the curfew itself. To be honest, I do not have much to add to the previous debates. I think we talked about it last week. It was expected to have an effect of around 8% to 13%. It still is. The effect is now expected to be about 10%, in the combination of curfew with the one-visit house scheme. So perhaps I should not repeat all of that. I can add something to that from the latest opinion of the OMT. That is the advice that the Chamber has received today or is receiving soon. I thought the Chamber had already had it, but we were just checking and I couldn't hear the answer. In that opinion, the OMT states that the picture based on hospitalisations according to the NICE Foundation, which is the well-known website "Prime Minister', is better suited to models that show an impact of the measures taken, that effect being attributed to the introduction of curfew and the reduction of the number of home visitors, and that the absence of an impact from these measures is less plausible in the projections. But, of course, there are still margins of uncertainty, which means that you cannot draw definitive conclusions. So you still can't say for sure: it works. On the basis of all the indirect data we have on relocations, but then I refer to last week's debate, on the basis of the OMT and RIVM estimates, we are now saying that the operation is about 10%. This is very significant; 10% may be the difference between exponential growth and the gradual extinction of the virus. So it is very important that this is there, but the only thing I can add to it since last week is that the picture of hospitalisations now also shows an initial effect that is attributed to the introduction of curfews and the limitation of the number of home visitors. In addition, of course, the question has been asked: yes, but why these additional measures? This is also the same as last week. Let me repeat that very briefly. We currently have around 90,000 infectious agents in the Netherlands. I'm saying that out of my head. I think that's the number. There are over 520 people in intensive care. It's 525. That number hasn't been falling any further for a few days. The number of people in hospitals has also stabilised for a while. Today, another 4,600 infections have been registered. The infection rate is somewhat lower, but there have also been large regional tests, which has resulted in a slight downfall. So you actually see all these numbers going a little "plateaus" and rather going in the wrong direction. The G-number, which describes the situation in the last week with the number of infections, is now in the plus again for the first time in a while. So we are still very concerned about that. At the same time, of course, there is the prevention paradox that when the curfew and the one-visit house regulation begin to work, you can see this in the fact that the number of infections is not rising dramatically now, but is not falling either. That has to do with the fact that the mix of the virus is changing and that we now have to deal with the English variant, which is just a lot more contagious. The latest estimate is that it is about 35% to 40% more contagious. Based on the sequencing, it is currently expected that about 70% of the new infections are with that English virus. You could say that we're actually doing very well with the classic virus................................................................................................................................................................ At least that's what you see in the numbers, which are kind of stabilizing. In all models towards the future, you can also see that the third wave is expected to arrive, albeit a little later than expected, but this has to do with the measures. So it's just incredibly exciting. This weekend, based on the OMT advice, we will decide informally and formally, Monday and Tuesday in all discussions within the Cabinet, as well as with the Security Council and all experts, on what to do for the coming weeks. Then there will be another press conference and next Wednesday we will have another debate in the Chamber. But I have to tell you, I'm not optimistic right now. The contagion rates, the percentage of infectiouss and the situation in the hospitals just don't look hopeful at the moment, but you can see that curfew is slowing down in any case, also in combination with one visitor at home. This has not been proven definitively, but from all the underlying data the 10% of the curfew combined with one visitor at home is always confirmed. Finally, of course, one visitor at home has less compliance because that is an urgent advice rather than curfew, which can also be maintained. That's what you see in the numbers. Thus, the expectation is that one visitor will also have an effect at home, but that, as this is less respected, the mix of these two measures shows in particular the curfew effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u202	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u203	Finally, a question which I believe will also be reflected in the written reply and also in the legislative proposal. I would like to repeat this once again: it is of course not the case that we stamp OMT advice 'rubber'. What we do is talk about it as a cabinet administratively and politically. Then there is always the cross-cutting test that we do with the help of all the agencies that are there, to see what the effects of measures on the economy and on the psychic-social situation in our country are. We always show this in the documents sent to the Chamber from the Catshuisberaad. You can see that all these different elements are carefully weighed. Then, of course, extensive consultations will take place in the Security Council. Consultations are taking place with all administrative bodies in the Netherlands. Then it's finally decided. So it's not like the OMT here says "this has to be it" and we do that. No, then a weighting takes place in a number of very careful decision-making processes. So let's talk about the role of the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u204	I assume that my questions have been answered, but they have not been answered. So I will go back to the basis of the measures, because both the lockdown and the curfew are based on the assumption that we are dealing with a terrible British variant. On 10 January, the Catshuis meeting brought this to a successful conclusion: it would be 50% more contagious, an R-value of 1.6 and 170,000 infections would follow from it. Can you at least confirm that these are the figures you mentioned at the time and on the basis of which you introduced these bizarre measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u205	Of course, we are always working on what to do based on the latest modeling expectations. You can also see that there is now a certain effect of the measures we have taken, so that you can push that third wave out a bit. Unfortunately, however, all the experts still expect that third wave to come. At the moment, we see that 70% of the new influx of infected people is about that new virus. It looks at the first day of illness. That's not necessarily a weekday or working day, but the first sick day. Then you can see that 70% is now about the English virus. It is still expected that, on the basis of all assumptions, this will lead to a more contagious condition between about one third and 40%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u206	Eventually nothing of these models of the RIVM came of course. Then you can say: yes, it is because of the measures, because of that curfew, but at best that curfew would have an effect of 8% to 13% at the time. But we don't see anything. We can see it's a little more contagious, not more virulent. We're looking at an R-value of 0.9. We're seeing a few thousand infections. We can see the RIVM was 40-factor error on that first projection. I find it a bit annoying that we are constantly confronted with figures as if they were figures in those predictions. They're just models, like the nitrogen model. It's not a good time, even now. Those models are wrong over and over again. Last time, you said, no, the median is really fine with it. No, it's a factor 40 error. So the basis for this curfew and also for the lockdown is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u207	It's really not like that. In an epidemic or pandemic that forces you to look back in the rearview mirror for two or three weeks each time, you always have to work on models to make some prediction of what you can expect from all assumptions over the next few weeks. Then you take measures to try to minimize those effects as much as possible. The urgent advice of the OMT was to keep everyone at home in addition to the packages we had. We have carefully weighed that in all the administrative consultations that I have just outlined. Well, we thought that was way out of line. Then we said: we go to the limit of the visit at home and we do a clock not during the day, but only in the evening, the curfew. Of course, it also has its effects. What you're seeing right now is that you're pushing the third wave a bit ahead of you. But still applies at this time... look at today... 4.600 infections. That means we're doing five times worse than the Germans, because they also have about 4,500 infections on average a day, but five times as many people. So it's really not going so great. We still have to be very concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u208	I understand very well that you work with scenarios and that you have to be able to create a model, but as always you have a P10, a P50 and a P90, a sausage case, a best case and a medium case. What you did was accidentally look at the sausage case. And that sausage case was based on the wrong numbers. It was assumed by mistake that everything was already the British variant. It was assumed that it would have 170,000 infections. So that graph went all the way through the roof, and you took it for true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u209	"You" is the cabinet? That's what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u210	Yeah, the cabinet, yeah. Who else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u211	Yeah, you guys, they could be MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u212	Yeah, okay. The cabinet has assumed that there would be 170,000 infections. We now know that the assumptions for that model were in any case wrong. Moreover, the worst case scenario has also been taken. So now we can conclude that this happened by accident? Well, "wrong, thank you!', But at least let's stop these dystopian measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u213	This is just not true. Sequences show that 70% of the virus is the English variant. Then you see that the number of people in the hospital has not decreased for about five, six, seven days now, but remains about the same. It rises slightly, it drops slightly, but it stays about the same. Then you see that the number of infections is still at a very high level. The percentage of infections per day has actually been around 11% for a very long time. That's twice as high as you'd like, because if you want to get it under control a little bit, it should actually be only 5%. So it is more than twice as high, while we are taking these measures. We now have the "a visitor at home," and we have the curfew. We see that this curfew, in conjunction with the "a visitor at home," is expected to have an effect of about 10%. You can also see this in all the underlying data, from parking transitions, from transport movements, from transport and you name it. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Al die cijfers heb ik hier liggen.]] I am not going to tire you of that, but you can see that curfew really leads to a very clear reduction in mobility during the evening hours, both nationally and internationally: a reduction of 50% to 75%. You can see all that. At the same time, you can still see that... Of course we have to keep looking at it: if you look at the models, you will then work on it, also with what you do and how you try to push out such a wave for you. That's what we're doing, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u214	This is a real fantasy world. If 70% of the infections are already infected with the British virus, is that proof that it is not as catastrophic, not as contagious and not as miserable as predicted? So those predictions from the RIVM didn't come true. And that can't be because of the curfew, because that curfew... those were all vague studies... was up to 8% to 13%. The fact that we're at 70% now is proof. So I would ask you to reconsider this and to take a more critical look at the models of RIVM, because they are clearly wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u215	Now Mr. Van Haga pretends all we have is curfew. Of course it came on top or a very heavy lockdown that was introduced in two steps: in October, and then made to maximum just before Christmas. The curfew and the "a visitor at home" arrangement have been added to that. In the mix this has these effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u216	We don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u217	No, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u218	That seems to me to be the right conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u219	The lockdown has not yet provided a glitch in the charts, the curfew neither, nor the mouth caps. So the Prime Minister insists on his actions. I really wonder how long we'll continue to damage our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u220	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the last set and ask. That was actually about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u221	I see you standing, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen. If you want to interrupt, please step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u222	Or talk really loudly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u223	I have a question, because I hear the Prime Minister saying that 70% of all infections are now the new British variant. Am I right? I'd like to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u224	I'm gonna read it to you exactly, because that's always important. It's 70%. Let's see, where was it? Let's see. Let me put it out of my mind: 70% of the new infections. Yes. Then you look at the first day of sickness. Now, if you look at the first disease day of new infections, you can see that the sequencing shows that 70% is about the English variant. That is what we hear from the experts. I will double check, because Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen is looking at me with a look like I might be making a mistake. So I'm gonna double-check it, but that's just how it's been handed to me. I'm gonna double-check it and come back on it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u225	Yes, please. This morning in the AD there was an interview with Chantal Reusken. She's an expert in virology at RIVM. It was claimed that the estimates of how far the British variant has progressed in the population... The proportion of positive infections appears to be much smaller than expected, because this was based on too small a sample. So the RIVM has adjusted its estimates. On February 2, the Prime Minister said that about two thirds of all positive infections were the British variant. RIVM then adjusted that to 47.6%. But that was on 2 February, so I would very much like to hear from the Prime Minister if these are the latest figures. Because it seems like a shocking leap forward in two weeks. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u226	By the way, that two thirds was a model expectation. It was adjusted later. What I just said about the new influx of infected people and that the first day of illness is being looked at: I'll see how that relates to this morning's statement. I'll get that and I'll get back to you. Good point. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few questions about how this relates to the wider debate. That will probably come back next week, but perhaps here are a few things about it. One. How can you reduce measures, such as curfew measures? We have said that the curfew is separate, so we will always weigh it separately. I expect that in the next few days we will have the next discussion in the cabinet and then with the Chamber, with a Berlin wall in the middle. On the one hand, the discussion about what measures you are taking to control the virus. With these measures the curfew is always on the table first, as it were, to stop. Then of course you'll always see if it works and if it's still needed. Eventually, that starts with an opinion from the OMT. Then you're going to weigh that administratively and politically. Two things are important here: further information on the effectiveness of the curfew I have just mentioned the first indications of the disease and two, the expectation of how the virus develops and how much you still need it. In addition, on the other side of the discussion you have the question of which extensions you want when there is room for. I am therefore not very happy about this at the moment, because of the high number of infections and the high percentage of infections. But of course we're going to look at that too, because you're dying to see something in public again...Sorry, not public transport, it's public transport, but vo, secondary education. You want something in the economy, too, if you can do it somewhere. But the question is whether this can be done by March 2. Of course, we ask the OMT for advice on this too. We'll come back to that next week. In any case, we will be working on the Dijkhoff motion and the wider debate in the Chamber on whether, if there is room for relaxation in the future, if there is not necessarily room for relaxation in the future, you can take small steps on a broader front. Would you like me to answer all the questions on this point? Because there were more questions from the Christian Union, I thought. Then there was the question of whether it would be possible to look at the effectiveness of individual measures. That is very difficult, because they may also interact with each other and they are practically introduced at the same time, one, one visitor at home, on the 20th, and the curfew a few days later, after the discussion in the Chamber and the settlement on that Friday. Of course, we look very closely at the consequences for children and young people. That question has also been asked by several people. I am very pleased that we were able to present that very broad education package yesterday, but we realise, of course, that what is happening now has a huge impact on young people, on children and, of course, on others in society who are lonely. There are major economic consequences and consequences for companies, and for employees in companies, but all measures also have major psychological and social effects. We also look at this every time in full width. We use the input of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, the NKC, the national police, the security regions, the VNG and the relevant specialist departments. It's coming back, as you can see, in those Cathouse pieces. We are also constantly showing in the decisions we make how that cross-cutting test takes place. Then there was the question, perhaps more towards next week, of Mr Van der Staaij whether you could prevent parties and contaminations in any other way. Yeah, we keep looking at that: are there alternatives? By the way, that's terribly complicated. In the emergence of the English virus, there was actually only one real alternative that no one wants, I think: a stay-at-home order. In the end, we opted for the combination of a curfew and the one-visit house arrangement. But of course we're still looking at what else you can do to achieve as much as possible with a minimum of societal effects. I think you can say that the economic impact of curfew is limited, but it certainly has psychological and social effects. I also agree with those who say that this is more of a personal observation, which I cannot make substantial here, and that the one-visit house arrangement is also very intense for a lot of people, and perhaps even more intense for some than the curfew. But again, that's more N=1 than I have all the evidence for that right now. Mr President, I think I have answered most of the questions. The rest comes back to the debate that Hugo de Jonge, Tamara van Ark and I will probably have again next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u227	I heard the word "wider consideration" and thought: now comes the answer to my question. But the Minister has taken it a little differently from what I meant. I referred very directly to the Council of State. The Council of State says that the OMT opinions obviously play a very important role, but that, given all the other interests at stake, the final consideration cannot be based solely on those opinions. Here in the Chamber we have very often paid attention to the broader consideration: show what it is. And what do I see when I read the bill and the explanatory statement? Then the cabinet has abandoned a simple reference to the date of the OMT opinion and says exactly what the OMT opinion has taken. I do not see in the explanatory statement how the broader consideration has taken place. What other interests did the cabinet weigh, other than what was put forward by the OMT? I would ask for an explanation from the Prime Minister because we are talking here about the impact of the measures and need to look more broadly than just the OMT opinion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u228	I'm sorry, but I thought I answered that question. I'm gonna try that again, or we're gonna have to talk about it. It is true that we first ask, on the basis of the spread figures of the virus, what is epidemiologically wise to do. This ultimately led to a serious signal at three times since the summer. That was early October, when we re-entered the partial lockdown, before Christmas the full lockdown and mid-January, I think on Wednesday 20 January, when we had to decide on the introduction of the curfew and the one-visit house arrangement. That was three moments when we had to escalate. This is absolutely the first subject of an OMT opinion. Mrs Van der Graaf is right about that. The question then is whether you leave it at that. No. Then three things happen. One. Of course, there is a political and administrative discussion in the cabinet. Two. We also keep looking at the cross-cutting effects, such as economic, social and psychological in society, of measures you take. You can also see this in the Catshuispieces, for example from 8 February. The Segers motion of May last year, among other things, led us to ask the planning agencies to regularly look at what we are doing, as well as the ESC. In the end, through Coalition-Y, this has led to a great deal of input from young people, not specifically on this measure, but at various times in the fight against corona. All this comes back together in the cabinet in the ministerial committee, but before that happens, we have the Security Council, there is consultation with specialist departments and with other civil society organisations, with the clubs that are before it, and also with the national police when it comes to enforcement. All these aspects are therefore always taken into account. We have said in the discussions as I have attended, in any debate on this issue, that this has a natural effect on people, because it simply leads to a significant reduction in the number of social contacts. That is why I called it anecdotal, because there is no hard evidence underneath it, other than the assessment based on the discussions. Unfortunately, you also want to do that because of the corona control, but of course that has an effect on people. The curfew too, but to a lesser extent, because it does much less economic damage in any case. And two, because it doesn't mean you can't visit somewhere, just shorter. So that's how we keep trying to make that weighting. That's never perfect, and we watch it over and over again. If there's any suggestions on how we can do better, I'd like to hear them. It is really important that we look at how we can weigh these social effects every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u229	The words that the Prime Minister now devotes to them go far beyond what is in the bill. We are asked to give an opinion on the bill. The Council of State says: you should not rely solely on the OMT opinions, but the whole bill consists only of the argumentation from the OMT opinions. What the Prime Minister has just put forward is that there has really been a broader view. The Prime Minister has said: we always do that; then we meet in the Catshuis and then we talk about all these considerations. But the point is that it does not come into this law and we have to judge it, because it should be part of the government's motivation. So I think the cabinet here...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u230	Maybe that's, if I can try, because you're in the law...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u231	Could you please finish your sentence for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u232	I'm just not okay with that. The disadvantage of this kind of legislation is that it has to go to the Chamber under steam and boiling water. The cabinet asks... We as a Chamber here do our best to give a good weighting, to take on our task here as co-legislator. We are not getting answers to our questions, not to say that we are very precise about proportionality. Then the Prime Minister says, again, that I should refer to all the other debates that have taken place on this subject. That is simply not an answer to the questions that have been asked here. When we ask a critical question as to whether there has been a broader view than the OMT opinion, we now hear what more thought has been given to it. But it has not been part of a justification of the bill. I really think that's a shortcoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u233	I don't know if I agree. I understand what Mrs Van der Graaf is saying, but this whole debate is, by the way, part of the history of law, so in that sense it is relevant what we are discussing. What we tried to do in the bill is write down: what is your first, most important source to say "now there is an urgency to take additional measures"? That is, of course, the epidemiological and virological situation, our health situation. In relation to hospitals, in relation to the vulnerable people in society, older people with vulnerable health; keeping the pandemic in the Netherlands under control as best as possible. That's your first base. Then, of course, you look, and then proportionality comes around the corner, at what other options are. We've been looking at it, too. We also looked at the stay at home order, which would be an alternative. What I don't think anyone wants, so it's a little faint to mention here, but you must have weighed it up, not so much here, but of course we looked at it. We also looked at those social bubbles, which we are working on further. But those are, of course, advice about social bubbles. That's why we also said that you didn't get into a fast turnout of an English variant... It won't do the necessary work. So it won't do enough, but we'll see if you can add it again in the future. So in that sense that is true, but let us at least note that this discussion is part of the legal history. In the Catshuis pieces, which also go to the Chamber, look at 8 February, you also see all these considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u234	Good. Then I'm really glad I asked all those questions. This has indeed become part of the legal history. But I would ask for something extra, because we are discussing the law today and we will have to vote on it later. The cabinet has announced a new weighing moment, but the court will come first tomorrow; a new weighing moment, next weekend or sometime in the next few days will be. I said in the debate that the Christian Union wants a firmer, clearer, better underpinning of the cabinet when the cabinet comes with the weighting that that curfew will have to be extended. I would now very much like to have the Prime Minister's promise that next week, even if the Chamber has to deal with this, we will be informed in this vein, as the Prime Minister is doing now, so that we too can make our assessment: do we follow that reasoning or not? Do we still think that is proportionate or not? And is it true or not? I would very much like that commitment, including at the level of detail, and perhaps a little more, which the Prime Minister has just shown.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u235	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u236	I see Mr Van der Staaij and I see Mrs Kröger. I don't know who was first. Mrs. Kröger?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u237	I'm gonna keep going at the same point of the weighing moment. The Prime Minister is now pointing out that we are looking wider and we are taking it with us. Just how does that make sense to us as a room? I hear him say in the same piece: when we look at whether the curfew can be withdrawn, we look at the effectiveness, effectiveness and expectations of the virus. But these are of course two epidemiological aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u238	Sorry, that's what the OMT does before we get him and before they come to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u239	But the problem is the negative social effects of this measure, which we also mentioned in the debate last week. What does it do for domestic violence? What does it do for child abuse? What does it do for all the other examples we can mention? Does the Cabinet have eyes on that? Or do we send on one side a hard R in numbers and for the rest some kind of anecdotal evidence, as the Prime Minister himself called it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u240	It's more than that, but of course it's very difficult. We have to be honest about that, too. You can't capture the effect as hard per measure, just like the R-value, which is almost a model. We are looking into it and that is also my commitment to Mrs Van der Graaf. So we will also do so if there is a continuation of the curfew. The foundation must be there again. I just meant to say the following about what the OMT is doing. When the OMT considers whether the measure is really necessary, it looks at what the epidemiological situation is and what the effect of the curfew is. That's their job. There has often been discussion as to whether this broader consideration should take place in the OMT. No, it has to be politically-administratively based on other information. You shouldn't burden them with that. They must make the epidemiological assessment. Then we need to see what to do with each other. Because if you ask real virologists what they want, they always say: let everyone stay home, then the virus is the fastest way. But we can't do that for all kinds of reasons. In the end, you always have to consider it and then the other aspects are also discussed. We'll show that in the background. But it's still advice and judgement, of course. They can't be very hard. You can't say that this measure has so much domestic violence. It's never gonna be that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u241	I understand that, and yet I think there is a huge world between an anecdotal assessment and real mapping of the social effects of a measure. We also do impact assessments on other measures. It is, of course, possible to identify the situation with regard to the ggz in the last few weeks in which this measure is taking place. How's it going with domestic violence? Are there any more reports? I notice that on that epidemiological side and on the medical side we are making everything very hard in figures and that we are creating some sort of certainty in figures, which is also questionable, as the Prime Minister himself does, when we have so little on the other side of society. I'd really like to get a better look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u242	At least we're gonna make the most of it. I get that question; I want it too. That is what I really think is the added value of this discussion. I believe that we are taking these aspects with us. When I say "anecdotal," I don't mean it's the discussion in the cabinet. That was more when I here personally, anecdotally, N=1, Mark Rutte said about how I estimate the curfew in relation to the one-visit house arrangement, that I expect the latter to have a much greater impact than the first. That is where I linked that word 'anecdotal', especially not to the discussion we are having here about the side effects of the measures. At the same time, on a continuum from anecdotal to rock hard numbers... you're not gonna get them either. But Mrs Kröger is right here, I think the challenge is to get as far as possible. So I'm picking it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u243	Same thing. I honestly believe that proportionality, in addition to that legal basis, is the key issue of this measure and, therefore, of the law. We are not only talking in general about an amendment of the law that allows a curfew, but the law also states that the curfew will continue. So that is one package that we are deciding on today. Here's what I'm noticing. I hear the Prime Minister say in previous debates that the same thing was about the cross-cutting test that the cabinet is certainly prepared to consider it as well. Still, it's not in the pieces for today. I can hear the Prime Minister say very strongly again, even in his defence outside the press conference: we simply have no choice. This in turn feeds the idea: have these other effects really been on the table? Are they really taken into account? Do you have any idea how far-reaching this restriction of freedom actually is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u244	I think so. The whole core of this broad, comprehensive consideration at the previous decision-making moment was in the Catshuis sections of 8 February. Those pieces were given to the Chamber as well. In doing so, you look at the broad and societal impact. This includes the behavioral unit of the RIVM, which looks specifically at such things, but also the Social Cultural Planning Office, the NKC, the national police, the security regions, the VNG and relevant trade departments. Not only do you look at public health, including mental well-being, but also at the economy, society, behaviour and implementation and enforcement. All these aspects are taken into account. Mrs Van der Graaf had just had the criticism: in the justification of the bill, the virological epidemiological need for action is very strong. There is also proportionality in relation to what you could do further. But then our conclusion is that there is mid-January or "what is it?" On 20 January, in addition to further figuring out the bubble... But that was also absolutely the conviction: that is a point to be worked out and, moreover, cannot be maintained. That was another urgent advice. You really need these, besides the one visitor at home and in relation to the great concern about the far too high numbers of infections and that accelerated advance of the English virus. So I really think it's important that we keep that curfew for now. But that's a broader consideration we're making. I also think it is right for the Chamber to say that if you decide next week to let it go a little longer, then we must also deliver it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u245	Mrs Van der Graaf was right to have a point about the extension, but we are also deciding today on the curfew, because that is what this bill is about. At least I have not yet seen any weighting in the pieces. What is the picture of how terrible the restriction of freedoms is? I do hear the Prime Minister mention a figure on opinion polls; I hear him say that there is support for a lot of people. I recognize that in a lot of people around me. But I would also very much like to know what that is like with a minority, perhaps, who is very much affected by it. How's that weighted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u246	I try to sketch that this is also partly in the documents that the Chamber received from the Cat House of 8 February. In my opinion, the question that Mrs Kröger and Mrs Van der Graaf have just asked is to bring this more explicitly into our communication to the Chamber, except that we are sending that slide text. I only give it as a profit warning that has been tried to get this rooted in hard figures as far as you have it is much more than anecdotal.... but it will of course also be a weighting of experts. But I think that is a valid point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u247	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u249	Then we wait for a moment until the chair is cleaned. I give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security for the questions that have been put to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by expressing my deepest thanks for the fact that your Chamber has been prepared to meet in this recess week at such a short time to discuss this matter with each other. Let me also say the following. If it were to be established that the intervention of the curfew by the cabinet did not go well, then that is regrettable and we certainly need to learn lessons from it in the crisis approach. Mr. Chairman. At the moment, the appeal is still pending. I will say a very brief word about this later, because there was a question about it, but I cannot go into the substance of it any further. I would like to comment on the questions that have been asked as to why this basis has now been chosen. Why did you come here like this? I think it is important to clarify that once again. Mr. Chairman. It has been chosen to set the curfew under the Extraordinary Powers Act. I shall cut him off for a moment, otherwise that is always the very mouthful: the Act of extraordinary powers of civil authority. I address myself immediately to Mr Grothuizen, who was concerned about my rule of law. Did I not think of this until recently? Already in answering questions to your Chamber and the First Chamber in the months of September and October, following inter alia the treatment of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, it has been indicated that the Wbbbg would be the obvious way forward and that it would also be possible to do it in a special law. In replying to questions from Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks, among others, on 9 December last, I said once again clearly: the Wbbbg, the royal decision. Well, that's important to know here. But I said at that time in Question 7: as a cabinet, we will really get to your Chamber first, unless the great urgency would oppose it. To Mr. Groothuizen. It has always been clear that this limitation for people, that they are no longer allowed to leave their homes, has always been seen by the Cabinet as a real step higher than any other restrictive corona measure. Then we also replied to those Members who thought I said that this is the only way to do it. In replying to the questions relating to the continuing law, I said: here is a law that sets quite a bar on imposing the limitation to be allowed out of your house. That's that law's extraordinary powers. I'm gonna take a look at the member Van Otterloo. For example, in the case of the entry ban, those tests that I was able to turn to very quickly in December, thanks to your Chamber, that was different. This was an issue not yet described in specific legislation. That has also been the reason to opt for the Extraordinary Powers Act. That was decided in the Cabinet on Wednesday and immediately announced by the Prime Minister in a short press conference. And now it comes: that meant that it would be lifted by Saturday. That is why there has been an opportunity for an urgent debate on Thursday after that. The Council of State did not say in its opinion of 1 February on the so-called 'Continuation Act', which would then have to be adopted, that you should not have done so; you should have chosen the Twm. No, the Council of State has said that the fact that you have still given the Chamber an opportunity for an urgent debate so that you can get more support for it is understandable in itself, but you have to explain why you have done so; you also have to explain why it could not have been done through a specific new legislation in this case. I explained the first one, but I just said that. We knew that scheme would take a few days organizationally. That's the way it is. You can't do that in advance, because you won't know until the decision is made how that decision is going to work out, what exceptions and so on. The other point I explained in the report following the opinion of the Council of State. That's what I just said. Yes, there is a law here that says out loud: limiting the possibility of leaving your home; that is Article 8 (1) and (3) of that Act extraordinary powers. I've explained that I think you can't just ignore that. Mr. Chairman. That's how this went down. There has, of course, been a period which may have been clear, in November and December the urgency began to rise while the measures were increasingly stringent. That is what this is about; I am not going to go into the issue of proportionality. This resulted in the OMT's opinion on the morning of the press conference in which the OMT said: this could be the effect of a curfew; we think you should. At our question what the alternative was, the OMT said: then you have to give people a whole stay-at-home order, and we didn't want that. I'll stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u251	I also want an idea of how you've built up your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u252	I think I've answered a lot of questions with this. I would like to address Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Dam on this appeal: why do you not wait for it or can you withdraw it? Then I have a few loose questions, and you are used to me going through them at a fast pace. So it's got to be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u253	Yeah, that's why I'm asking. Now Mr Groothuizen and then Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u254	The Minister again says that he did so last week, and he has done so before: we have chosen this route because it is such a special competence. Only, of course, we have put together a special corona law to combat this pandemic for a reason. If the Minister chooses that route, which he is doing today, namely adding a provision to that corona law, Parliament is fully involved. Secondly, if that curfew is to be triggered, a ministerial arrangement according to a special procedure, we have also been called upon to do so as a Chamber. This guarantees a kind of maximum involvement of the Chamber, while the route of the law chosen by the Minister, which was established during the period when we handed out iodine pills due to a possible atomic attack, I believe, means that the cabinet in a KB is inciting something, then separating an arrangement and only later the Chamber is involved for confirmation. So it is not clear to me why exactly the bar, which is indeed high, is better guarded by the Minister's route than by the route that is now ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u255	Let me begin by saying that this law was amended in 1994/1995. So that was no longer a time when I was on the iodine pills. We have to realize that. Then there's another point. That's really important. It can be remembered that a temporary law measures covid-19 went into consultation and that it was quite devastatingly reviewed, let me say, because it found that far too far-reaching powers were given. Even in the Chamber, it was said from your Chamber at that time that there was another provision which made it possible to intervene urgently in the event of unforeseen special circumstances, so actually this kind of situation was not required by that Temporary Law measures covid-19. At the same time, I did say in the First Chamber in the context of the documents of the temporary law, but also in the answer to the questions: well, then you will have to do it under the Act extraordinary powers or possibly a specific law. I said that, given the urgency of the opinion, it was important to be able to introduce that curfew soon, but I also said that we are really going to hear the Chamber in a debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u256	I did not expect the Minister here to admit that he would take pills of any kind, so in that respect he will remain on a roll. Actually, I hear the Minister now saying that we didn't choose that route of the Corona Act because I was afraid I wouldn't have done it in the Chamber. I think that's what he's saying now, and that might be an honest answer, but it's a weird answer. I think that option of curfew came on the table somewhere in November and we had already passed the Corona Act. So I think the Minister could have just chosen the route to say to the Chamber in the autumn, when this was happening, that we might have to deal with this one day, and it is wise to amend the Corona Act to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u257	Mr. Chairman. Your Chamber also voted in favour of D66 and adopted a motion in November that there should be no curfew. The reasons for this were: I have checked that motion, that it was then too much in the opinion of the OMT that you could raise more urgency with it. I will leave it in the middle for a moment as to whether it was actually the same at the time, but that is at least what this motion was about. Then it was said, no curfew. Again, it has not been at all to make that temporary law or interference of the House of Representatives impossible. On the contrary. It is precisely that everything has been done to have an urgent debate with the Chamber on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u258	Your seventh question, Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u259	In fact, to conclude this point. I note that in the end it seems to have been the fear of a whipper after all. I think the Minister is confusing two things. Indeed, the corona law provides brackets to use any means. That doesn't mean you're gonna do that immediately. There are many things in the Corona Act that are not yet or are not fully implemented. There is a differentiation clause in it, which I think we use very little. So I think the Minister's reasoning is simply not legal either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u260	We really do differ fundamentally on that, and there are no such brackets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u261	First, Mrs Van Esch wants to ask a question, and then Mrs Van der Graaf. Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u262	I refer to the words of the Minister saying that the power is already in that Wbbbg, and that is one of the reasons for choosing that law. But, of course, it's an emergency law, so it doesn't just contain that power. Of course, there are safeguards attached to it. Two safeguards are: either you call out the state of emergency, or you make sure that this new law is ratified by the Lower House and the Upper Chamber. I can't wait to see how the Minister reflects on that speed. Because on 20 January, the emergency law will be announced. Then we are entering a temporary situation very quickly, which is possible in this legislation. But it's not until February 2nd that we get a bill. I am curious to see how the Minister reflects on that, especially since this law actually indicates that you will immediately make that new law for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u263	Yes, I've reflected on that. I said I was unhappy that it took so long. I have said that perhaps this is made up for by the fact that, at least when we had that urgent debate on Thursday. But I say immediately: that has not entirely made up for it. That took a while. The Council of State also took a number of days to deliver an opinion on this issue. And the complicated point that we have seen there is that this was a firm tool that everyone really had to get used to; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u264	I'm curious to see how you're looking at the fact that the new emergency law we're trying to implement is still in the Upper House. No decision has yet been taken in the Upper House. Suppose the House of Representatives here today adopt the current new law through that Public Health Act, and that will be done tomorrow by the First Chamber, then the curfew is legally regulated by that law? 'Cause the other one isn't finished yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u265	There on two sides of my side plays a good family father-, a good "home manhood." As soon as the judge's ruling was known last Tuesday, the cabinet said: well, then we will go against it in an emergency, but we must also be able to see that this judge has made the right decision and that it is confirmed. Then, as a good houseman, as a good housekeeper, we must really take action for this by submitting this emergency law as soon as possible. That went a lot faster this time because, of course, everyone was in the business by now, including the Council of State. And on the other hand, it means that you actually let the judge judge what has been said in the first instance by that welfare judge. That is difficult; I admit that immediately. But in that respect, I can only agree with what the Prime Minister said earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u266	I'd like a confirmation or a disapproval of the vision I'm laying down here. We believe that if the Lower House votes today for the law that we are debating today, and the Upper House does so tomorrow, then the curfew is actually legally covered by that decision...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u267	That's actually the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u268	It's the same question. I would like to hear from the Minister: I think that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u269	That is not legally-technically so, but you have already heard the Prime Minister say, 'I agree that the cabinet will then find with certainty that it has to go along that path. But formally, legally, this is only the case when the law is published in the Official Journal and so on and so on. Another thing is perhaps, Mr President, may I say very quickly that the curfew is still in force at the moment on the basis of the existing royal decree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u270	Mrs. Van Esch, I see you looking. You can try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u271	Yeah... no, don't bother. I think I'm gonna let it settle for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u272	You're welcome to come back anytime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u273	Last week, the Minister of Justice here in the Chamber said, "I quote from the report that was made of that meeting: "You cannot lay that down in the Temporary Law measures covid-19, whichever way you turn or turn it is an ordinary law." You can't lay it down in that temporary law; that's what the minister said. Yesterday, the Minister submitted a bill to the House of Representatives in which he proposes to do so. Is the Minister looking at this differently now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u274	You've seen... let me put it there... my conviction is that this may I put it this way? It is really a hyperlimiting measure. Apart from closing the pubs and schools, which I also hate, this goes a little further. It is not for nothing that we, as a cabinet, tabled this urgent legislative proposal on the basis of the idea that this should be a separate law in order to express once again that this is something that is heavier and does not just go along with the Temporary Law measures covid-19. The Council of State has said that we see it differently. Perhaps I should note that they do not see it as hard as I see it. At that time, as a cabinet, so did I, we had to pick it up in order not to have a discussion with each other here as well. Then I'll come back to that good paternity. That means that I am not going to push my own right on these points, but I dare say: okay, if this should not be the legal basis, the W etc., the Extraordinary Powers Act, and if the Council of State says so now... the Council of State did not say so in its opinion of 1 February; that has fallen into the Chamber a number of times. But it is now said: if you do it separately, do it in that temporary law. Well, I guess you can. I admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u275	So it's possible. That's what the minister just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u276	Well, now, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u277	Well, if it's possible now, I guess it could last week. But it's good that we have this on the table. This morning, we heard lawyers of state who said: this is really a much better legal basis. They follow the Council of State in it because it has better guarantees for citizens and a wider democratic involvement of both Chambers. Can the Minister, having already said that it is possible, also say: I think that this is a better legal basis that also holds up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u278	I find that difficult. I have also heard State scholar Brouwer from Groningen, who, this week, after the judgment in summary, explained the following with great authority; I did not talk to him about this at all. He has said that this Act is intended to have extraordinary powers for this purpose. That's why I'm saying it wasn't meant to put your room out of play. It still isn't. On the contrary. That is why we also had this urgent debate right after the announcement, in the few days that it had to be dealt with, as it is called.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u279	Yeah? Oh... I see that everyone's a bit out of line because apparently the answer isn't entirely satisfactory, but I'd still try to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u280	Then I'll finish it this way, Mr. Chairman. So it can and, with lots of extra words added, it might also be a better choice. Because I assume that this Minister fully supports the bill he has now tabled and that we are discussing it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u281	This is what I think, uh... I can't say right now that it's a better choice, so no. But as I just said, if Tuesday a court of law says "you shouldn't have done this" OK, we're opposed to that appeal, which will serve tomorrow, and if that appeal says the same thing tomorrow, which suddenly means we don't have a law, then we, as a cabinet, have to get to work immediately. We have submitted this for advice to the Council of State. It is for that and it says: then you must do it this way. The Council of State did not say on 1 February: you must do it via the Twm. Because I agree with you that in that case I should have said: wait a minute, what are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u282	I would like to go through the point made by Mrs Van der Graaf: if we can do it now, we could, of course, do it last week. Then the Minister of: no, no. Apparently, last week it was all different. Can he explain why we now have a law based on the basis that has already been asked for, which apparently could not be done last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u283	I told you. Advice has also been requested under the perpetual law to the Council of State. In any case, the Council of State has clearly stated that you must explain that and that point, but also take the Act as an extraordinary starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u284	That is in no way an answer to my question. The minister just told my colleague that last week he couldn't, but he can now. So why couldn't it have been last week and now it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u285	No. As I have already replied to Mrs Van der Graaf, I still think it is a heavy responsibility and it should be in a specific law if it is not extraordinary powers under that Act. The Council of State has said: do it in the Temporary Law measures covid-19. So, as I have already said to Mrs Van der Graaf, that is obviously possible. I already told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u286	It's gonna be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u287	It's gonna be a repeat of moves. Maybe finally: the Minister talks all the time about "good paternity." I would think that part of good paternity, although I would not take that expression into my own mouth, is also that the input, control and involvement of the Chamber is secured to the maximum. This is the case in the current legislative proposal, but not in the bill that has just been fired from the welfare court. Isn't it obvious, on this basis alone, that the present law is better in good paternity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u288	No, because it is precisely a power which imposes a very heavy responsibility and which is governed by a law, the Extraordinary Powers Act, which already exists and of which I have already reflected the procedure. We have talked enough about this: royal decision, ministerial arrangement and so on. I regret that, despite the fact that we had already spoken to you as a Chamber, the bill was only a week and a half later in your Chamber. Fortunately it was accepted, but in fact I would have preferred it after four days. That's what I said in the treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u289	Mrs Kröger, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u290	So the Minister does not share the analysis of the state law experts, who nevertheless state quite clearly that the control of the Chamber is much better secured under the present law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u291	I didn't say anything about that. In any case, the state law experts think differently about this. I find that complicated; there are quite different thoughts about that. What I have always said: this Act of extraordinary powers is a special law with special competence; it prescribes a certain procedure. I have always said that I will have to follow it, but I will discuss it in good time with your Chamber, in the urgency that exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u292	The Minister just indicated that on 1 February the Council of State had not so much talked about that temporary law, the corona law. However, I have taken up the opinion and it shows that they have indeed indicated that this application differs from the line taken so far during the corona crisis to lay down restrictive measures in the Temporary Law measures covid-19. The Minister replied: yes, but the route we chose with the existing law was faster. But I note that the continuing law on the basis of the existing law has lasted longer than the law we are discussing today. So what's left of the emergency argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u293	That's what I've been explaining. I am very grateful that we can do this so quickly. We can see from everything, both in the Council of State itself and in the cabinet, that we have now become much more involved in this problem and that we can do it much faster. The Section is indeed saying what I have just paraphrased: you are not doing it according to the Temporary Law, but according to the Wbbg, and it is good to go into the procedure in the explanatory memorandum in more detail. There was then an opinion with a number of comments. That means, as Mr Van der Staaij knows, that the Council of State says: go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u294	The question remains: perhaps the Minister can say this briefly and clearly once again, what has been the most important argument for opting for this very special law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u295	Yes, and give a brief and concrete answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u296	This is an important debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u297	Yeah, of course it's important, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u298	Two things about that. The first is the urgency there was in the whole. On Wednesday, the announcement and Saturday will be in effect and yet two days in between will be used for an urgent debate. The second is that there is a very detailed legal framework for what needs to be done if we are to impose a restriction on leaving our people. I have always thought: that is a kind of lex special, a special arrangement, which you must follow in the first instance. I have really said that to your Chamber a number of times, so I think that this is the way it should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u299	Finally, because other interruptions also addressed this issue. Does this mean that the Minister is still saying 'actually, for that reason, I think that the emergency aid law is the best basis'?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u300	No, I can't say that right now. I have explained why we chose this route and included your room in it. First of all, I have to wait and see what the Court will consider about that decision last Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u301	It was about clarity later, but the clarity doesn't get any better if you ask me. The Prime Minister said just now: we think that the legal basis of that Act is a special competence, and that is what we still think and we still do. Now the Minister who is here defending a bill, a new bill for another legal basis for curfew, can still not really get his mouth shut that he thinks it is a better proposal, that he thinks it is a good law to introduce. How does the Cabinet intend to gain the confidence of the Chamber to vote in favour of this law if it itself is not even convinced of the quality of its own law, even in comparison to the law that now applies to curfew? How are we supposed to vote in favour of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u302	Of the quality of the law before me, I am convinced. That law also went to the Council of State for advice. We have also taken on board the advice given by the Council of State on this issue. With regard to the question of whether one basis is better than the other, I cannot say anything about it. I continue to note that the Wbbbg on the basis of which we did this is still a good basis. Now there is a judge who in an interim action has said 'I do not think so' and then I must at least ensure that there is a quality law on other good grounds, so that we do not say with each other later on there is a question of 'We have lost the curfew in the fight against the pandemic'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u303	This is a pretty bad story, isn't it? The Prime Minister says: this is actually a good legal basis that we can go on with; we did and we could actually do that. The Minister of Justice says there's a judge who says something. This is perhaps one of the most radical measures we have had to take in the corona crisis. The SP is quite willing to go very far with the cabinet when it comes to measures to control the virus. We have done so all this time over the past year. We can also have respect and understanding for the fact that some things go wrong. But this is just a matter of poor preparation. We have been talking in this Chamber since the beginning of January about whether or not to introduce a curfew. Then the proposal we are discussing today should have been ready by now. Then there would have been no need to resort to an acute emergency, for this is the purpose of the Special Powers Act. That is also why the judge and the Council of State have said: you should not actually do that in this way, because it is not an acute emergency. Otherwise, we wouldn't have had to talk about this all month. So there's no acute emergency, but you're still using this law. It was cracked by the judge and the Council of State. Now you come up with a law in which the cabinet itself is not really convinced that it is an improvement. How do you expect us as the Lower House to support such a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u304	The Council of State didn't say that. That's one. Two. I'm not going into what's going on in court. Three. I have already said, in reply to Mrs Van der Graaf, Mrs Kröger and also to you, that I think that the law that is now before us is a good basis. It's a good law. It's a good one. It's a good one. The Council of State has reviewed this and we have adapted it to the comments made by the Council of State on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u305	Then I'll go see Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u306	I'm going to keep going where I just left off, because I'm surprised we don't actually have a legal basis right now anyway. The Wbbbg isn't through the First Chamber at all, so we're still without a legal basis at the moment. I actually want to have the promise that, if we debate the new law before us all day, and the First Chamber will do the same tomorrow, then we will just have a publication in the Official Journal. I don't want us to wait for that. I don't see any reason for that. I think we are now having a debate on a law before us. That's what's gonna happen tomorrow at the Upper House. After that, we just need that law published. I would like to have the assurance today that that will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u307	Once again, there is certainly a basis now. That's the royal decision. There is. That's one. And two, I refer to what the Prime Minister said about it. He said that there is a certain probability, but that, given the appeal that will be brought tomorrow and concluded in the very near future, he does not consider it up to us to say so definitively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u308	I must then, I think, certainly join with several speakers today, because I feel that we are going to be discussing a law that we cannot vote for, because voting in favour or ratifying that law actually does not say anything at all. That is what I think: I think we are debating all day about something that we in the House of Representatives have far too little to say about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u309	I'm experiencing the situation as a kind of catch 22 where you can't go anywhere. In my view, that is something we should simply say. The importance of this cabinet is that there should also be a curfew tonight and that there should be no discussion about the government's support for the regulation that is currently in force. That's the arrangement based on the Wbbbg and the royal decree that's already in place. I hope it's not about a few fines. I did the math once. I still think that the legal value in this cabinet goes above the merchantship. I think there should simply be a solid basis to have, until the new regulation applies, a regulation that is not discussed. That is what I think this is about. It would help me to put it this way, if radiated, I would like to leave it to the cabinet to decide how this is going to be done. This new law that we are now working on here is the beacon on which we are heading. Otherwise it will be very complicated for me to know what I am doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u310	That is also the beacon on which we are heading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u311	Thank you. I think you were done. Then we have now reached the second term of office. You must be a little quick, Mr. Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u312	I am always counting on the answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u313	Did you leave a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u314	Yes, I had asked a question about the role of the First Chamber and the involvement of the First Chamber in the pending procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u315	The involvement of the First Chamber in this law and in the ministerial arrangement resulting therefrom will be the same as in all ministerial arrangements under the covid law. The First Chamber can also call the Cabinet to the Chamber and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u316	But that was not my question in the first term, because I have also established that this is the case now. In dealing with this law, the First Chamber also has an insight into what the regulation means. But we're gonna have a new arrangement. Soon there might be new boundaries. I already read that people think that we should be locked up in the house with this law all day, because that power is now being given away. I doubt that, but I will hear that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u317	But the question was about the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u318	If there is a new regulation in the future, it will be subject to this law. We will then have the opportunity to respond to this by bringing the law here and possibly putting it out of operation. The question is whether this could also apply to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u319	That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u320	That is not provided for by the Temporary Law covid-19 at the moment. This would require a different discussion of principle. Your Chamber said at the time: we must set it up in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u321	That's right. The Chamber agreed to that. Then I have Mr Wilders, but Mr Van Wijngaarden is already ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u322	I didn't exactly have a barrage of questions, but I did have one question for Minister Grapperhaus, which has just not been answered. My question was about modernising state emergency law. In the written replies and in the note on the report, 'yes, we are working on modernising state emergency law', but my question was: just give us a hint of what that work looks like. That may also be done in a letter to me, but can the Minister give us a little more explanation? Is there going to be a commission, for example, or do I know what? I would appreciate that, because this whole issue also demonstrates the need for modernisation. There is also just a Chambermoment for execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u323	It was discussed 20 years ago, but I will send a letter, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u324	Exactly. I just said that behind the scenes, but you didn't hear that. But you'll return to it in writing? For that was Mr Van Wijngaarden's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u325	Yeah, I'll get back to you in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u326	Then Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u327	My questions about the fines have not yet been answered. I asked for the fines not only to be removed, but also to be paid back, certainly in the event that the court would rule tomorrow on appeal that the judgment of the court of appeal should be upheld. I shall refer that to the Chamber in the motion. I haven't had a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u328	I really can't say anything about that right now. Mr Van Dam rightly said that the importance of the appeal and of maintaining the royal decree lies in the curfew itself and not in the Dutch merchantship, I shall say. But I cannot anticipate a court ruling on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u329	With all due respect, I don't have much to do with Mr Van Dam. I am asking the Minister a question and I am entitled to an answer. Raising your hands and saying, "I can't say anything about it" is not an answer. My question concerns the case where the judge on appeal maintains the judgment of the court of appeal. Then that means the curfew was unlawful. A lot of people have received a fine of €95. There are hundreds of thousands of them. If that curfew turns out to be illegal, then those people should get their money back. My question to the Minister is: if so, are you prepared to do so, or should we ask for another urgent debate? Of course, I don't know if that's going to happen either, but what if that verdict comes up, are you just gonna let those people who got a fine give their money back? That's my question. I'm not asking you what law you're going to file or use.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u330	First of all, that's really a stand-alone consideration of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u331	I can't get an answer every time, can I? What kind of game is this? First, you say "you will not receive an answer" and you refer to your colleague from your own party. Then you say it's up to the State's Attorney's Office. Why don't you just answer me? I'm just a MP. I'm asking you a reasonable question. I'm not asking you for anything impossible. In fact, I say 'in the event that the judge will follow the court of appeal'. If it isn't, I understand it's different. Then you say, "Yes, that's a stand-alone consideration from the D.A.'s office." What do you think as a minister? You've had a fine yourself once. You yourself once had a fine; should we play it this way? Just answer the question: what is happening? Your own fine you've been fined because you didn't follow the rules, you've been dismissed by yourself or the D.A.'s office, and so have the rest. What happens to this if people actually get that fine illegally? Does it go back or doesn't it go back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u332	No, I just paid that fine in full. That's one. And two: Mr Wilders will get an answer, namely what I have just said. This is really an independent consideration at the D.A.'s office, but we will also really have to see what the outcome of that ruling will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u333	The last question. As a minister and a member of this cabinet, do you think that if the Supreme Court maintains the ruling of the Supreme Court that the curfew was unlawful for various reasons, the people at home who have been fined should get their fines back? Do you think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u334	If I am asked to do so, I can tell your Chamber if I know that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u335	I have, to my knowledge, missed answers to two questions. One question has been asked by several Members and concerns the creation of that specific power for mayors. I know that I have not heard an answer from this Minister. I am also curious to see why the Council of State has not been asked for an opinion again. Those are the two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u336	In the case of mayors, too, it will in principle be within the limits indicated in the Twm. That means that those who make the ministerial arrangement can also be put on a tighter footing. That's one thing, but that's just the way the law covid is now. On the second point, the Council of State, we have simply taken on board the advice points of the Council of State one-on-one. Then you don't have to go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u337	Finally, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u338	On that second point: yes, that "one-on-one" is about inserting a new legislative process, but then it is inserted into an already existing, current law that has already received a corona addition. In any case, we as the Animal Party would be very pleased to hear from the Council of State what he thinks of this particular way of adding into that corona legislation, in that Public Health Act. I know that it has been taken over, but I would therefore like to consider the substance of the Council of State: can this, if these additions are correct, is everything working out well? It's about that kind of advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u339	We have really followed the advice of the Council of State on this issue. Then there is really no reason to ask for further advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u340	Mrs Van Esch mentioned the mayors and then I thought: hey, I asked a question about that too. Can the Minister explain again exactly what this exemption is like? Can the mayor grant an exemption for the area of his municipality, for which he is responsible? Or, for example, can he grant an exemption to individuals? I'd like to get a better idea of that. I think that is also important for implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u341	Then I would suggest that I do so in the second term or that I return to that in a letter, because then I really need to look at the law. Can it be in a letter, if it can be in a letter quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u342	I don't know if it's part of the legal history. I think it would be good to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u343	In the second term, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u344	In the second term is also fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u345	That's fine. Okay, thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u346	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has made a huge mistake with the curfew; the whole of the Netherlands has seen it. And, unfortunately, he is not able to do that again today, which is a characteristic of him, to admit that he is being ridiculed and certainly not to withdraw that curfew, even though it is not nothing that the welfare court has said. In addition to saying "it was the wrong law," the welfare court also said "it was not proportionate." In other words, the freedom of Dutch people has been unduly restricted in recent weeks after 9 p.m. Let me say this to you, Madam President: our freedom has been unduly restricted in recent days. That's what this statement says. Whatever you find further from that curfew, there are people for it, there are people against it, here in the Chamber and in the country, until something else has been said on appeal, is the conclusion that we have been illegally home for a few weeks after 9 p.m. I do not understand that there has been no earthquake through this House of Representatives. I really don't understand that there's no earthquake... whatever you think of that curfew, it's gonna happen to you that you're not allowed out of your house on unlawful grounds after 9:00 p.m. Why, why, is the room not a lion here, but a lamb? Why are we taking this? I find it incomprehensible. Mr. Chairman. As I have just said, the appeal may also lead to the maintenance of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeal. In any case, I would like the appeal to be awaited before we vote on this law. I think that's very pure. Again, whatever you think of the arrangement, let's wait and see. And that could go both ways. On appeal it can be said that the Prime Minister, or the State, is right, and under that wrong law we are going to say that it is allowed. But it may also be that they say something else and have other considerations. So I want the Chamber to wait until there is a ruling on appeal, especially now that the cabinet itself simply refuses to state clearly that it thinks the basis of this law is better than that of the current law; that is also zero defense of this law. I've just seen it during my colleagues' interruptions. They don't even say that, if necessary, they think that law is better, with of course a legal trick, such as "yes, the appeal applies." Hence, Mr. Chairman, I have the next motion. It's a motion addressed to the Chamber. I ask you to put this motion to the vote before we vote on the law. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[does not vote on the proposal for a temporary limitation law in the open air covid-19 (35732) after the ruling of the court of appeal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35732-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u347	Mr. Chairman. It is also significant to the Prime Minister that he did not have a good answer to the little interrupting debate just now about the injustice of justice, the dishonesty, yes, it is just unfairness.... and the difference in treatment between how he, Prime Minister Rutte, deals with solving his problems, his political problems, and the problems of ordinary people at home. I said to him: Mr. Rutte, what is your message for all those people who are victims of that surcharge affair, for which your cabinets have been responsible, and what is your response to the people in Groningen, where your cabinets have gained gas, who see their house half collapsed? Those people are still waiting years later, years later, for a compensation; they have received no law, no compensation, and no seeing Rutte come by. Nothing at all! What do you say to these people? Madam President, the Prime Minister did not have an answer to that, and that is incredibly unfair to those people. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say something about fines. I really do... I don't understand why the Minister of Justice is in charge of the D.A.'s office, and I don't think he can at least have an opinion on how to deal with it if the appeal leads to the maintenance of the court's ruling, and doesn't say that those people will just have to get their fines refunded. Not only have we lost our freedom, but we have also lost our money. At least thousands of people will lose their money. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw all fines issued for breach of an unlawful curfew and to refund all fines already paid as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van Haga, Mr Krol and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35732-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u348	Of course, it does not appear in the case of a court of appeal in the event that the court of appeal maintains the judgment of the court of appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u349	Mr Van Dam, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u350	I have a brief question about the first motion, because I really want to understand her. The current regime will apply until 3 March. If tomorrow the judge in summary proceedings says the arrangement isn't right, we're out of business. Then we have no curfew. I do not think Mr Wilders will be very opposed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u351	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u352	That's the situation. That's not what I'm looking at. So if we wait with the votes... well, tomorrow we won't vote. That'll be somewhere next week. That means that next weekend, as a consequence of this motion, we will have no curfew. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u353	Sure. For starters, you got that right. I have sometimes been accused in this house, by my friends from D66 but also by others, that I have no or little respect for the judiciary. If you do not support this motion, perhaps that could also apply to you, I think. We saw last Tuesday that the court of first instance ruled. Then there'll be an appeal. It is already incomprehensible that the Cabinet, Rutte, that so quickly... Maybe he made some calls to the judges or to the Council of State, for an opinion on this law. I know what he's done. Yeah, you can laugh again. You're always laughing or playing with your phone, Mr. Rutte, when I'm talking. People at home get annoyed by that. No shaking, playing with your phone call, making jokes with your colleagues. I'm just making comments on behalf of the PVV, whether you like it or not. And as far as this bill is concerned, I do think you should wait for the appeal. Wait and see what that judge says and then put this bill to the vote or not. I don't have to, but I think it's the proper way of doing things: wait and see what the appeal is and see what that judge's considerations are. I think that's the way it's supposed to be. Then you look at whether the executive is the legislative power, I must say that it wants to adapt or not. Now it runs right through each other. That is not wise for many reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u354	Finally, Mr Van Dam
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u355	I was not directly concerned with all the qualifications and appreciations of people in this Chamber. It is about understanding the consequences of this motion. The consequence is that, in the event of a negative judgment of the judge in appeal, I do not want to say anything else about the judge in the future without curfew. That is very clear; thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u356	The consequence of this motion, should it be accepted, is that, as a Chamber, we do not pass legislation through the legal process and we wait, as I think it should, for what the judge on appeal says about the ruling of the court of appeal. Only then will a proposal, as it is called by lawyers, be given the power of res judicata. Only then will it be final. Then it will come into effect. And then it's up to the Chamber and the government to see what they want to do. Through cycling is just not kosher; sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u357	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u358	Madam President. I thank the rulers for their reply. In fact, you can sum up everything that has been said on the government's part with the conclusion that the provisional court of appeal was wrong in the eyes of the government. It's not so strange that the government thinks this, because she's also appealing against that ruling. But it does make it difficult for a law to be presented here at the same time as a plan B. That is the situation we are dealing with. My group believes that this law on one part of the court's grievances, namely 'the legal basis in that emergency measure law is not right', is an improvement by following the route of the corona law. But at the same time it is the repair of a road that you do not yet know if you want to walk it. Because as a government, you want to wait for the court ruling. That makes it an unclear and complicated situation for me. In fact, the government continues to bet on two horses. Mr. Chairman. As I said, I think that a better basis is being found, but as far as my group is concerned, the question of proportionality remains. We have said this before in the debate. In this we have been confirmed by the ruling of the interim court of appeal. The Council of State has also said on today's legislative proposal that the weighting of proportionality is insufficient. You are stressing the virological side of the matter, which we must take very seriously, but on the other hand, namely, what exactly is the impact of the restriction of fundamental rights and collateral damage, has come to my group's conviction that there is not enough clarity, despite the fact that we have repeatedly asked in motions in this Chamber to show it now. I also tabled a motion myself, in October 2020. It doesn't come out well enough. I believe that, in the case of such a far-reaching measure as the curfew, we should impose very high due diligence and set the bar very high. It has not become sufficiently clear that less far-reaching measures would be insufficient. Unfortunately, therefore, my group cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u359	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a tricky problem. Are we going to vote and risk a superspread event? There were already calls to fill the streets and squares with all kinds of celebrations. Carnival will be over this weekend, but that won't stop other people. Or do we apply the precautionary principle? I'm leaning towards the latter. I do that because I think this law... It was a bit of a sad sight from the room to see the cabinet turn itself down in a whirlpool, as it were. We must note that this law is, in our view, an improvement on the current situation before the courts. There are still reasons to improve the law. That is why I have tabled an amendment, and I have two further motions. But all things considered, I think this is a better way, because it also involves the Chamber better. So it could be even better. That is why I immediately have a motion to expressly involve the First Chamber. There is also fear about this law. I would like an additional confirmation on that. There are reports in the country that this law will ensure that the cabinet, if we say yes today, will have the opportunity tomorrow to lock the whole country all day, because there is no time mentioned in the law. People do not understand exactly how these arrangements work, but fear is fed. I would therefore like to have a reaction to that. I have to get to the motions now, I see. The first motion concerns the involvement of the First Chamber, also to point out that we, as Parliament, Second and First Chambers together, are at the helm at the moment when regulations are being devised which we feel are not sufficient for a...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u361	You'd better start reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u362	... good treatment of the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas measures in the context of the fight against the corona pandemic are sometimes far-reaching;]] [[Whereas errors of assessment have been made concerning the legal fixation of curfew;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in the case of further far-reaching measures in the context of the management of the coronapandemic, both sides always have the right of assent, with the exception of very exceptional situations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35732-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u363	I'd say that's option nine in De Jonge's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u364	Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u365	The second motion also deals with an important point, namely proportionality. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are many separate and sometimes radical measures to address the corona pandemic;]] [[calls on the Government to always provide a comprehensive basis for the continuation of measures and for new measures to address the corona pandemic,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35732-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u366	Mr. Chairman. This was yet another pointless debate. The VVD, the CDA, D66 and the other left parties are for a curfew, so there will undoubtedly be. Unfortunately, the next possibility that we can abolish curfew is not until 17 March. Despite the fact that the danger of the British variant turned out to be a myth, the cabinet pretends that curfew is still needed. And despite the fact that the curfew did not pass the proportionality test, the cabinet thinks it is a good measure. And despite the fact that other less damaging measures have not been taken, this cabinet believes that once again our freedom can be greatly reduced. And despite the fact that a curfew has no demonstrable effect on the spread of viruses, this cabinet marches on in its corona tunnel. But the damage this cabinet has done has become too great. If there is an emergency, everyone is prepared to turn in a little, but there is no longer an emergency or a danger to public health for a long time. It is time that the rulers who have done this damage were called to account. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[decides to conduct a parliamentary survey on the Dutch government's approach to the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35732-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u367	Mr. Chairman. I have also tabled an amendment to limit this horror measure at least in time to a maximum of two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u368	The Prime Minister or the Minister for Justice and Security is about to respond to the amendments. These reactions have not yet been given, but they will come in the second term. Mr Van Wijngaarden does not need a second term. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u369	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the legal position chosen by the government is really unwise. The wrong choice that has been made before is maintained. At least that's what it feels like. The First Chamber is also not involved in future decisions on curfew in this construction, whereas according to the system with which fundamental rights should be restricted, this should always be done. This weighs really heavy for us. The Minister says that he is unable to assess the basis for the scheme. He is waiting for the trial, but he expects us as a Chamber to decide this now. As far as we are concerned, that is certainly not the right route. I expect the Minister, if this law is passed, to bring the law into force and publish it immediately. That's what I just said. I really don't think we can keep it. If he's hired, publish immediately. It all feels very rushed, too. It is still unclear why different mayors may grant different exemptions in these different municipalities. Mrs Van der Graaf also added this. We too would like to wait for that additional explanation, because that is still unclear as far as we are concerned. Let me now turn to the Council of State's opinion. The minister chose a foundation for the new law and that was wrong. That was corrected and then a new foundation emerged. But over the whole construction that was then built on that foundation, the council has never advised. I don't think he's even seen that before. That is why we want to table a motion, because in our view it is really important that the Council also looks further at the construction built on that foundation. That is why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court of Justice considered the first legal route chosen for the curfew to be "unlegitimate';]] [[noting that the Council of State gave negative advice on the second route chosen by the Cabinet;]] [[noting that the third route, as it currently stands, was not submitted to the Council of State for advice in that capacity;]] [[noting that the drafting of the bill is very complex due to legal consistency with the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and the Public Health Act;]] [[calls on the Government to submit to the Council of State, for further advice, the Temporary Law on Limitation in the Open Air Covid-19,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35732-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u370	Finally, Mr President. We were against curfew and we're staying against curfew. The government's legal mess has only confirmed this further for us. That extra confirmation was confirmed once more by the fact that there are even certain exceptions to this curfew. That exception is there for hunting, among other things. As far as we are concerned, that is absolutely unacceptable. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to exempt any form of hunting from curfew,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35732-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u371	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u372	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u373	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group is also not enthusiastic about the curfew. But in times of crisis, you have to stand for measures that are needed. Two things have been raised in the debate: the question of proportionality and the legal side of the debate. The question of proportionality will be addressed in each debate. For the time being, we are convinced that this measure has been sufficiently met to justify it. Legally, it's complicated, but let's take the case back to what it's all about. It is a question of whether this bill can count on the support of the Chamber. It is not so much a question of whether the curfew should be extended today. When I look at the bill that is before me, I am very happy that this arrangement of curfew is now being incorporated into the Public Health Act. That's what today is about. That is the legal system where things are weighed up in the fight against that pandemic. We have had endless debates here before about how we are going to do that with each other. Then we said with a very large part of this House: this is the way we want to do it. You can have a discussion about whether you want a curfew. But if you want him, this seems to me to be the instrument to make it possible here at least. I have tabled an amendment with my colleague, Mr Groothuizen, precisely in order to contribute to that constitutional test, I would almost say, so that if you introduce a curfew, it is not up to the cabinet to set the deadline, but we, as a formal legislator, also use the picket posts for that. I hope that amendment will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u374	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the past year, the SP has supported the cabinet over and over again with regard to measures to contain the virus. We have also criticized the cabinet very often when we felt that the cabinet was acting too late or was doing too little. I also said it in the first term: the accumulation of mistakes and misunderstandings and the legal mess we are seeing around that curfew are all helping not to continue to support the cabinet at that kind of time, especially when it comes to such a drastic measure as curfew. Today we have talked for a very long time about a new law, which must become the legal basis for curfew. What stings me is that even now, at 6.15 p.m., the cabinet still doesn't want to say that the bill we are debating today is an improvement on the law that is now the legal basis for curfew. That's a very strange situation, isn't it? Because if the cabinet itself does not believe that this law is an improvement, how do you want to convince society that it is now well arranged? Or does the cabinet think it is so important that it may also be in the process of saving its own face, tomorrow in court, that the cabinet would rather leave it hanging over the market for that reason whether or not that extraordinary powers of civil authority does or does not go off the table? We cannot play these kinds of games on such an important subject with regard to the SP. I also share Mr Van der Staaij's view that the cabinet is still betting on two horses. That is really no longer justified at this stage. So the SP really wants to hear from the cabinet that if we adopt a law here and the First Chamber adopts a law tomorrow, this is actually the law with which we will have that curfew. I think that's important. I really want the cabinet to make a clear statement on this. There will also be a motion to force otherwise, I believe, but I really do not agree that the cabinet should leave this in the middle. That is really not good for the support for such a far-reaching measure. I thought I'd close with that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u376	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u377	Thank you, Mr President. I have left a little mixed feelings to this debate. Let's start with the legal side of the story. I've been convinced that what's ahead now is a better legal basis than what was. That is up to the cabinet, and that is up to us. That is also the reason why I support a motion and that the law now before us should take precedence over the law now before us on appeal. That's one. Two. I will also support the amendment relating to a maximum period of three weeks, so that we do not get an automatic extension, but we as a Chamber are active again. That depends on point three, proportionality. We have supported this, because we believe that this is now justified, given the concern and the levels of contamination, which are still high today. We would also like to see other relaxations, not only in primary education, but also in secondary and higher education. That's a trade-off we're making. You have to look at that every week, because a curfew is really an instrument that you want to use as short as possible. "Instrument" is actually the wrong word, because it is just a very annoying measure that affects a lot of people. Mr. Chairman. I hope you're okay now. I said in my first term: we cannot get wet again. It's not about making mistakes. It's about trust in the crisis approach as a whole. A number of decisions have been taken that undermine that confidence, because things run differently than promised, planned or proposed. When that happens too often, it becomes an addition and we really have a problem with each other. I wish the Cabinet good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u378	Thank you. I have Mr Kuzu here, but are you going to speak on behalf of Mr Kuzu or indeed on behalf of DENK? Yeah? Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u379	Mr. Chairman. There's fear in society. There's stress in society. People get depressed. Young people are having a hard time. Despite the fact that this prime minister has been beaten by the judge, Rutte pushes the curfew through it. He's doing it again. Ministers fall over, MPs come and go. He sits there with his phone, he laughs at everyone. How does he do that? It's special. Once again, he manages to despise society, despise the rule of law. He managed to get the coalition parties back together. He's doing it. Mr. Chairman. I have to say that this Chamber cannot stop this Prime Minister. I hope that on 17 March the citizens of the Netherlands, the society, the people we are doing it for, will be able to stop this Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. I have been a council member in Roermond for fifteen years, six years a member of Provincial States in Limburg and more than eight years a member of Parliament for 25 years a political experience and I have seen many manipulators. But our Prime Minister Rutte? Hats off, master manipulator. Master manipulator! I sincerely hope that after ten years the voter will finally stop the whole game here. I do not know who he is serving, but I must say: not our society, not the citizens we are doing it for. The multinationals, certain forces; I don't know who. But pressing a curfew despite the rule of law hurts a lot of people. But the advantage is, Mr Rutte: despite your way of manipulation, millions of people in the Netherlands have woken up, finally awake. The minute I leave politics here, I'm gonna go home with a good feeling. People are awake and will make their voices heard on March 17th. Mr. Chairman. It remains for me to say: DENK was against curfew, DENK is against curfew and DENK will continue to vote against that curfew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u380	I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u381	Mr. Chairman. In the case of a serious measure, such as curfew, the legal basis must be in order. That is the main conclusion of this debate. And that was not the case, despite all the government's denials. The cabinet has gambled and lost. For even if the judgment of the court were that the law of the cabinet could pass, they still have lost. Then we've all lost. Because it has been undermining, the fact that things were not in order and that a legally fragile basis has been chosen. Apart from the fact that, according to the cabinet, it was the simplest solution, I did not actually hear any good arguments. I'm sure it was simple, because the Chamber wasn't really involved. As far as we are concerned, therefore, today's law is really a better legal basis. That is why we are also under D66's motion to ensure that today's law will also be the legal basis for a curfew. We also think it is important that there should be a time limit, which is why we support Mr Grothuizen's and Mr Van Dam's amendments. Finally, proportionality. We had a very interruptive debate, Mrs Van der Graaf and myself, with the Prime Minister about this broader social weighting. When reference was made to Catshuispieces. I've been looking up those Cat House pieces. I looked at a slide and that was actually a fairly general story about the impact of the whole corona period on people and on their psychic condition. Then I think: no, that's not a balancing framework like what I was talking about. In my view, it is a question of really identifying a measure as to what the negative social damage is. That must be a balancing framework. And there has to be a broader social assessment framework for all measures: what it does is that it is epidemiological but also what the damage is. There's a promise from the Prime Minister. We hope that this will become clear soon, especially before an extension is discussed, because this really needs to be better. We should not just consider corona as an acute problem anymore, where we only steer the ic-capacity. There needs to be a broader social balance. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u382	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u383	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the cabinet for the answer. I'll start with a question. I think the Minister of Justice said it's up to the D.A. to see what we're doing with the fines. I don't think that's right. I think that's just an execution issue and Minister Dekker is going to talk about it. I'd like to hear a confirmation that that's true. Of course, what the D.A.'s office is about are the pvs that are still under assessment. In this area too, it would be a good idea to clarify quickly. I'd like an affirmative correction from the Minister of Justice. Today is indeed about the bill. That is the question before us. As far as I'm concerned, that's a better guarantee of curfew than the deposit there was. That is why we can support that bill. However, I do believe that there has been too much uncertainty in the debate on the basis of which it is chosen. I have a motion on this in a moment, because I think that this lack of clarity should simply be clarified here today. I also tabled an amendment. The Minister will undoubtedly respond to that in a moment. That's actually about there being a limitation on which open air you're allowed to sit. Of course at the apartment. This shall not apply to any vehicle or vessel with a living area. That's what's in the scheme now. My proposal is to put that in the law, because I think you should anchor these kinds of clear standards at law level. The amendment was also tabled by Mr Van Dam. I shall then come to the motion I had already announced, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that two legal bases for curfew would create uncertainty;]] [[noting that anchoring in the Public Health Act offers better legal guarantees than the road of Wbbbg;]] [[calls on the Government to terminate the operation of Article 8 (1) and (3) of the Wbbbg after the entry into force of the Temporary Law on Limitation in the Open Air Covid-19,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Grotehuizen, Mr Kuik, Mr Kröger and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35732-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u384	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for answering the questions. In the first period, I proposed that the vote on this law be postponed until after the appeal. I am pleased that Mr Wilders has tabled a motion on this. I assume he'll allow me to sign that motion. I have no further motions myself now. However, I am very curious about the documents promised by the Minister of Justice on Tuesday's proceedings. This outgoing Prime Minister continues to insist that the curfew would be proportionate enough to limit our freedoms. The support for it melts away like snow for the sun. That turned out yesterday and the day before yesterday, among other things, from polls by Stand.nl on Radio 1. This applies to curfew, but it certainly also applies to any plans for the terrible idea of a 'vaccination passport'. My question remains: how will we look back at this time in 20 years' time? I'm really afraid of the worst. The parliament was mangled. The economy was destroyed. Entrepreneurs were made dependent on state aid. Social contacts were severely restricted. And the rule of law was tried to cut off the pass. And again, I sincerely hope I am wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u385	Thank you. I call Mrs Van der Graaf, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u386	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice and Security for their answers. I think that this afternoon's debate has also shown that not only the written procedure plays a role in such a legal process, but that we can also get further together in such a debate. I'm happy about that. Mr. Chairman. I have indicated that the Christian Union considers it important to take the advice of the Council of State to heart. These OMT opinions are very important, because we have an epidemic to fight, but there are more interests and more interests at stake. The final consideration cannot be made on the basis of those OMT opinions alone. I therefore also welcome the Prime Minister's commitment to make that broader balance clear and clearer to the Chamber. After repeated appeals from the Court, this is now a real commitment. This is important for the Court, in order to be able to assess proportionality in the light of the latest insights into the situation. So I think it is important that we see that next week, when the cabinet decides to extend the curfew this weekend. Mr. Chairman. I have signed Mr Grothuizen's motion, in which it is indeed requested that if this law is given the force of law, the other one be revoked. I understand that the cabinet is still holding the cards for the chest at the moment, pending tomorrow's procedure. But I think it's important that that happens. I would also like to say to the Minister and the Cabinet that I hope that it will be possible to reach the conclusion, or later in the second term, that there will be full support for the bill submitted by the Cabinet. That seems obvious to me, but it seemed to be a little more complicated. That is why I am asking this question in this way. And to the Minister of Justice, I would like to say that the Council of State has now been much more firm than last week. Last week, of course, this has played a role here in the Chamber. Last week, the Council of State asked the cabinet to motivate the choice further, but it did not say: that is a no-go. But we now see that the judge comes to a different judgment, and that the cabinet has now chosen to submit this law. I'm just waiting for the answer on the mayor, and how exactly that waiver is given a role. Mr. Chairman. I said in the first term how the Christian Union looks at it. There are serious questions about proportionality. More has been said about this in the debate than we have been given so far in the legal process. For us, the signal is orange. We believe it is important for the cabinet to better motivate and support the choices it intends to make to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u387	With regard to the trias politicians, we know the Christian Union as a party that does not want to intervene in an ongoing procedure, which respects the separation of powers. There is now an ongoing procedure. Mrs Van der Graaf just referred to that. Is it not wise and better to wait for them instead of intervening with that motion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u388	I don't think so. What the government is responding to is to the government, but I think it is very good that we in the Chamber say: it is important to make a choice here. If we say together that this is a better legal guarantee of curfew, then we can pronounce it with each other. We're free to do that. In doing so, we can simply call on the cabinet to make a choice in the law and give this law priority. I think we should not forget that. I should like to ask Mr van Wijngaarden again: is it not crazy to keep two laws in the air?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u389	Finally, Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u390	It's not about which law we like better. The cabinet itself has already indicated that it thinks this is better. It's just about the moment you were gonna do this. I say hold off on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u391	I don't think the cabinet said that. I have just asked the cabinet, I think that is a good thing to do in the second term, or it means that it fully supports the legislative proposal that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u392	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u393	Thank you, Mr President. Clear proportional measures in the fight against corona are indispensable. Except the curfew isn't one of them. Parliament is not being taken seriously at all today. The questions will not be answered, including questions about that important proportionality. Citizens are being dishonored and put in checkmates. Now the emergency law not only turns out to be controversial for many people in society, but also only an option, a kind of insurance in case the cabinet hears tomorrow from the court that the law was not right. Mr. Chairman. I do not have much to add to my first-term contribution. I do have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to repeal the Temporary Law on restrictions in open air covid-19 (35732) as well as the current curfew measure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35732-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u394	In case this motion is rejected, I do have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that the Temporary Law should immediately be added to the list of controversial issues and directly declared controversial in the open air covid-19 (35732),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35732-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u395	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u396	Mr President, I am afraid to say this: Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u397	What did I just say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u398	Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u399	And safety, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall first discuss a number of amendments. As an intermezzo, I will answer two questions and finally deal with the motions. Mr. Chairman. First of all, my reaction to the amendment on item No. 10 by Mr Van Otterloo on a supplement to Wpg with that right for the Upper House. I'm gonna have to advise against that. I've already said a few things about that. In the course of the debate last autumn, a great deal of attention was paid to this issue. At the request of the First Chamber, the Council of State issued a special opinion on this matter. Then we really should go back to dealing with this subject again completely, but for now I do not recommend it. Then there is the Van Dam/Groothuizen amendment to item No. 9 on a limitation of the duration to a maximum of three weeks. That leaves the cabinet to the judgment of the Chamber. Then there is the Van Haga amendment on the two-week deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u401	In part No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u402	I do not recommend that amendment, because it is too short a time limit. By leaving the other amendment to judge Chamber, it would be three weeks. Then there is the amendment to item No. 7 on the exclusion of outdoor living areas. I think it is a sympathetic and understandable amendment. It is about staying in the outdoors in the most privacy: garden, balcony, people living in a vehicle or craft. I don't have a problem with that. In the current curfew scheme we have also made a similar exception. I must advise against it, because we now have a similar exception, but not exactly the same. In the current arrangement we exclude someone's own patio, private balcony and private garden. Then you may indeed stand on your own balcony. I'm sorry, but this amendment goes a little too far. So I'm afraid this amendment has to be...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u403	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u404	Yeah, dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u405	That's good. Mr Groothuizen does not seem to agree. What's your question, Mr. Groothuizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u406	My question is that I do not understand the logic of that anymore. Indeed, it is true that the scheme states "own house'. The Minister apparently wants to keep it that way now, but what the Minister wants with that curfew ban is that the one person who is still visiting and who is smoking a cigarette on the balcony after nine hours is still subject to the ban. That is what the Minister is trying to do here, while we have even excluded housing from the temporary arrangement in terms of group bans. So, as far as I am concerned, the logic is a little lacking here and the Minister should look at this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u407	I certainly want to take a good look at it in the near future, but of course it is important that we do not want gardens and so on to become ports of refuge just for other people to be out there. That one visitor might have to blow his cigarette out as long as I look at it with the garden doors open from the inside. But I'm gonna stick with the dissuade. Then I come to the two questions. The answer to the question on the possibility of exemption was due to Mrs Van der Graaf, but I believe that Mrs Van Esch had already said something about it. Let me say first of all that the current curfew rule does not include an exemption. There are all kinds of exceptions, but I'm not going to mention them now. It's gonna stay that way. Article 85e states that an exemption system is only provided for in a ministerial arrangement. That is not the case. Should it be necessary in the future to have an exemption system for curfew in addition or instead, I would now like to put a hook in the law for that. The reason for this is that the cabinet wants to be able to provide customization, so that in individual cases there are no disproportionate situations. A mayor, if a system of exemptions were to be introduced in the future, would not be able to limit fundamental rights further, but would provide the necessary tailor-made measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u408	Then there's the motions. Oh, sorry, there was another unanswered question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u409	A question from Mr Groothuizen, very quickly. He had asked a question about the jurisdiction of the fines. The D.A.'s office, of course, is about the business. That is the largest part where no criminal decision has yet been taken. We must leave that there too, but the position of the Public Prosecutor will also be guiding how it will proceed with the further execution. Then I have the motions, first of all the motion in part No. 12 by Mr Wilders. I must dissuade it, because it is about an unlawful curfew and such. Again, that is not the case at all at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u410	Mr Grothuizen, on the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u411	No, about the question. A few years ago, the USB Act came into force. That's what the cabinet wanted, because it wanted to be about the execution. Then it is asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u412	We're not gonna do the debate again, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u413	No. The answer remains foggy. What do you mean plays... Minister Dekker is just about the execution. What happens to all the criminal decisions that have been imposed is no longer up to the public attorney's office, and that's up to the government. I don't know why that has to be made foggy again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u414	I thought I didn't make it foggy, because I said so, too. I said, "Most of it's still in the state's attorney's office," and that's about it. There's a piece where the execution plays. I have said that what the prosecution is going to decide on what remains is, in principle, leading the execution of what has already been imposed. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with the motion in part no. 13. It belongs to Mr Van Otterloo and is about ensuring the next steps. In fact, that is a bit of a variation on Mr Van Otterloo's amendment, so I must advise against the motion. Once again, as it is now regulated, we have established this with each other as a parliament and a government. Then the motion to part No. 16 by Mrs Van Esch on the matter of submitting it to the Council of State. I have already said a few things about this in the debate, so I would advise against the motion. We have really followed the advice of the Council of State. I have just looked at it. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 17 was about the hunt. The Minister of LNV has indicated that the hunting of wild boar is necessary in connection with the control of African swine fever. There is no exception for the rest of the hunt. So I have to discourage the motion in that sense. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 18 by Mr Groothuizen. I have already said, and I would like to say this again, that the cabinet fully supports the bill. In addition, in response to Mr Van Dam, I said that the emergency law is the beacon on which we are going to focus, on which we sail. In that light, I shall leave the motion to the House's judgment. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 18 by Mr Groothuizen. I leave it to the House to decide. He went...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u415	I think you just assessed it. Or am I wrong? You probably mean the motion in part No. 19. No, that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u416	The motion in part No. 19, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u417	Mr Grothuizen has only tabled one motion. The motion in part No. 19 belongs to Mrs. Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u418	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Excuse me. I wanted to go too fast. The motion in part No. 19 by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen is about repealing the temporary law and curfew. In the light of the previous debate, the cabinet will have to discourage this motion. Those were the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u419	Thank you. Just a moment, Prime Minister. There's gotta be cleaning first. Yes, that's automatic. Then I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u420	Mr. Chairman. The motions on pieces No. 11...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u421	He's already been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u422	Oh, it's already been, but okay. The motions on pieces No. 11, 15 and 20 don't ask for an opinion from the cabinet. That leaves one motion and one question. Mr Van Otterloo's motion on item No. 14: Judgment Room. We're already doing it, but this is a nice incentive; judgment Chamber. Then there's one more question. It was about the share of the British variant. That is complicated, because we measure the decrease by means of the tests, but of course the infections took place several days before. On 2 February I said that two thirds of all new infections in our country were of the British variant. That was a prognosis of RIVM, based on a germ surveillance with still limited numbers and associated uncertainties. Now, the current sequencing system, i.e. a sample, shows that the size of the new inflow is about two thirds, rounded 70%. Those are people infected in early February. At the same time, it appears that the inflow with the British variant was still around 45% to 50% at the beginning of February. So those are people who were infected in January. Chantal Reusken has said that the British variant seems to be advancing less quickly than had previously been predicted, because not three quarters, but two thirds of the infections are caused by the British variant. That's what RIVM is investigating. It may be that in February regions where the British variant is less circular were underrepresented, but it may also be that the increase has been weakened. Today, unfortunately, we see more infectiouss with the British variant and with the classic variant. On 4 or 5 February, these numbers crossed. Unfortunately, we also see other variants moving forward. Mr President, that was the last question I had left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u423	Thank you. Did something stay down, Mrs. Van Esch?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u424	No, there's nothing left behind, but I want my motion on part number one. I'd like 17 of you to hold on. Then I'm sure that's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u425	Yeah, it's about the hunt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u426	That is what brought us to the end of this debate. We're going to vote in a few moments, if that's all right.
