ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u1	I welcome the Members and welcome the Ministers. We shall proceed to the two-minute debate on the situation in Afghanistan. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a conclusion to this debate on the evacuations from Afghanistan, I have to say that the cabinet sends a double message. On the one hand, strict new criteria have been added to the Belhaj c.s motion. on the evacuations. On the other hand, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in particular, clearly left room for distressing cases yesterday. But if I ask him whether we are going to accept only human rights defenders and not the plumbers anymore, for a moment in that metaphor, he says: no, we have to apply those criteria. So as a Member of Parliament, I am not sure whether the plumber who is in a distressing situation is being evacuated. Perhaps the government can explain this further. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has opened a special mailbox for employees under the Belhaj c.s. motion. fall;]] [[noting that the e-mails are included in a database;]] [[invites the government to review the requests for assistance in this mailbox,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government has added new criteria to the Belhaj c.s. motion for a resolution on evacuations from Afghanistan;]] [[points out that the new criteria do not apply to those who have already been promised evacuation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-843]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Piri and Mr Bromet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-844]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. In short, I agree with the dilemma put forward by Mr Jasper van Dijk. There are three motions left for me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas family members who do not belong to the "nuclear family" of the group which the cabinet intends to evacuate are seriously threatened by the work they have carried out for the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the Taliban threaten these people with torture, corporal punishment and death;]] [[calls on the Government to see the definition of "nuclear family" in the context of a collective family;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet wishes to evacuate a group of 2,100 people on the basis of harsh criteria;]] [[Whereas the Taliban also threaten people who are just outside the criteria and who have worked for the Netherlands with torture, corporal punishment and death;]] [[calls on the government to provide guidance for people who are demonstrably in danger of life but who are just not covered by the criteria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has identified a new group to evacuate to the Netherlands;]] [[whereas there are signs from the evacuations that Foreign Affairs is difficult to reach;]] [[noting that the old mailbox for sending evacuation requests and information is closed;]] [[calls on the government to open a new helpline and mailbox where people can contact for questions and information,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-845]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-846]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-847]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am relieved because the cabinet has now decided to commit itself to the evacuation of Afghans who are at risk of life because of the work they have done for and with the Netherlands. This after months of frustration where the Chamber and the Cabinet were often opposite each other. My group still has concerns about people who do not meet the new criteria but who are in danger of being killed and are therefore at risk of falling apart. I therefore welcome the government's commitment that there will always be an eye for poignant cases, that 2,100 people to be evacuated will not be considered as a sort of ceiling and that the evacuation obligation will not have an end date. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a duty of honour to Afghan (former) employees who have assisted the Dutch mission;]] [[noting that the United Kingdom has set up Operation Warm Welcome for this special group;]] [[believes that the Netherlands should also pay special attention to the proper reception of this Afghan group;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that decent reception, language courses, guidance to work and a buddy system with veterans and volunteers are provided in good time in the reception of Afghan evacuates;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Piri, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Bromet, Mr Belhaj, Mr Teunissen, Mr Dassen, Mr Kuzu, Mr Boswijk, Mr Ceder, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Simons and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-848]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr President. We are like overcrowded countries in the midst of an asylum crisis with bulging reception centres and an exploding asylum influx of about 5,000 applications per month. On top of that thousands of Afghans are now actively brought to the Netherlands. The PVV opposes this Wir-schaffen-das operation and therefore I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to grant any Afghan right of residence in the Netherlands, but instead to use shelter in the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Fritsma and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-849]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. During the evacuation from Kabul it was noted that many Afghans returned from the Netherlands to their country of origin for vacation or for family visits, while they often entered the Netherlands as asylum seeker with the story that they are not safe in Afghanistan. This scam must of course not remain unanswered and therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the residence permit or the Dutch nationality of Afghans who entered the Netherlands as asylum seeker, but who returned to Afghanistan in violation of their asylum story,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Fritsma and Mr Markuszower.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-850]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u7	I have a little time left for one final question. I asked the Secretary of State earlier how many people were returning from the Netherlands to Afghanistan with Dutch nationality or in possession of a residence permit. Because, of course, we must have an understanding of the size. Is an IND employee's thesis, made at a hearing, that there are as many as 900? I'd like some clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions of my own. My name is under a motion from Mr Dassen and Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Piri. I do have a few more questions and a compliment. I saw the mayor of Ter Apel on television yesterday and he was really desperate. So I'd like the cabinet to get in touch with him, because November 1st is pretty far away, if every night one is too much, where you're not in charge of the problems. For the rest, GroenLinks has some concerns about the single children who are also being cared for in emergency care. On this subject, the following questions. Is it true that UNICEF does not have access to the shelter and, if so, why is that? Is it true that there is a plan to house single children in an empty prison in Zoetermeer? I had already asked the following question, but I did not receive an answer. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that as of 1 November all single children will be taken back as they should, with a guardian, child-friendly care and access to school? And then the compliments. They are intended in particular for the new Foreign Minister. I was really impressed with his response yesterday. I had started the debate rather bossy against Mr Boswijk about what I read in the newspaper, that the coalition parties had once again crawled together. But I found the Foreign Minister twice in the GroenLinks corridor, and I found his response yesterday flexible, human and pleasant. That gives me confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch evacuation mission in Afghanistan has been prepared insufficiently and too late;]] [[noting that the operation has been difficult as a result and has failed in many areas;]] [[Considering that several countries, including the United Kingdom, have adopted a different approach, which has prepared well in advance for such a situation, has made their evacuation process more effective, has enabled them to secure thousands of people and to guarantee their safe residence status permanently through Operation Warm Welcome;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate how UK action has enabled them to carry out their evacuation process more effectively and with better results, and to draw lessons from its findings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the broadly adopted motion-Belhaj c.s. the cabinet has requested that every Afghan citizen who has worked for and with the Netherlands be evacuated from Afghanistan;]] [[noting that many evacuations have already been brought to safety in the Netherlands, but that they are also very concerned about their family and family members who, because of close ties with the evacuations, are also at great risk because of the Taliban;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has chosen to allow only nuclear family members of evacuations to be eligible for evacuation;]] [[whereas the Netherlands uses a strict definition of family reunification policy in that process, with the core family consisting only of spouse/partner and minor and young adult children;]] [[whereas the Taliban do not comply with such arbitrary awards, but also threaten uncles, aunts, brothers, sisters, etc. of evacuates to death;]] [[calls on the Government not to maintain the strict definition of "core family members" in relation to the current situation in Afghanistan, to include family members outside the core family of the evacuation lists, as they are also threatened by the Taliban because of the involvement of their family member in the Netherlands, and to continue their efforts to ensure their safety,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-851]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-852]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, then I give the floor to Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. When I drove to the Chamber this morning, I thought: what am I going to say here in conclusion of the debate? It says here: finish, s'il vous plaît. Already?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u15	No, I'll keep an eye on it. It's gonna be okay. You just have two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u16	I thought: what a tough chairman! She seemed so nice. Mr. Chairman. When I once applied for a seat in the House of Representatives, I think, in 2006 or 2007, I remember writing a sentence that characterized me as a politician, namely: dare to be fearless idealist and at the same time dare to do rational politics. That's what I was thinking this morning. That's what I've been trying to do in this complicated discussion. I am incredibly grateful to the cabinet for everything it has done and is going to do to ensure that as many Afghans as possible can come safely to the Netherlands. I would also like to say something to the parties that are very focused on the fact that too many Afghans would come to the Netherlands. These parties focus on the fear that many people have about the consequences this can have for everyday life. Can I still get a house? Are my kids still safe on the street? To those people I want to say: I see your fear too. I think it's important that we address that fear with the help of municipalities. Whatever they need to not have that fear can be given. Sometimes that means more police, more enlightenment or people get acquainted with each other, with refugees coming into a village. I'll never ignore that fear. At the same time, that fear must never be used against those who fear their lives. I sincerely hope that this balance will continue to be sought. I will continue to work for that. Mr. Chairman. I still have the question to the Cabinet to give us a structural update, perhaps before Christmas. Then we can follow exactly how things are going and we are not dependent on incidents that are going to come along. Finally, I would like to say to the Afghans: welcome to the Netherlands. The Netherlands is an incredibly sweet and beautiful country. I sincerely hope that you can and will all choose to make something beautiful of your life and that that love of many Dutch to receive you here will also be returned. For the children I especially hope for a very, very beautiful future. Make some of your life.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you, then I give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. There stand for the people who were there before us. There stand for the people who stood before us. That is what the debate has actually been about since last summer, with the terrible images. This also involved the use of the cabinet, the use of the armed forces, the use of diplomats, and certainly the use of the predecessors of two of the leaders who sit here. I would like to express the utmost appreciation for this commitment and wish them every success in the follow-up to it. For the people who stood before us, of course, immediately raises the question that has been hanging over this debate in recent months, namely: who are these people, and how do we define that group? Yesterday, the Demissionary Minister for Foreign Affairs indicated very nicely that you must come up with a fair and enforceable arrangement. Only then do you really have an arrangement, and then you really are there. We are now. I would like to thank everyone in both the Cabinet and the Chamber who has contributed to achieving this result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr President, thank you. I do not have any motions of my own, but I do support many of my colleagues' motions. However, I would like to make a number of final comments on the core family criterion used by the cabinet. That's what the Cabinet chooses. My party is still concerned that this core family should cover only the spouse, the partner and the minor and young adult children. We believe that we are witnessing a Western view of applying what we here in the West as a family also in Afghanistan. The Taliban do not distinguish between the nuclear family and other family members. Unfortunately, there are already examples of family members being prosecuted and at risk in Afghanistan because their brother, cousin or other family member has been employed by the Netherlands. Because of this derivative risk, the Netherlands also has a great responsibility for them. I therefore wholeheartedly support Mrs Simons' motion to include family of evacuators who are threatened with evacuation. I have also heard that there is room for poignant cases. I therefore call on the cabinet to continue to work for close relatives who are also at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mrs van der Plas of BBB has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u22	It already says I have to finish, but that seems pretty quick. First of all, I would like to thank the Ministers and the Secretary of State for the answers. I experienced the debate yesterday as much more pleasant than the previous debates, although the problem is simply very large. This is partly due to the introduction of the two ministers and the Secretary of State. That's what I wanted to say. If you're critical, you have to say it, but if I have to compliment you, so do I. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that asylum seekers are mainly received in the Dutch regions and that this is placed on the board of mainly rural communities;]] [[noting that there is a significant lack of reception facilities;]] [[whereas many buildings of the government are not fully used for a short or long time, such as the B67 House of Representatives;]] [[calls on the missionary cabinet to identify which buildings of the government have vacant floors and/or buildings, what types of spaces these are, and to examine whether they can be made suitable for the reception of Afghans or other refugees from war zones, or whose lives in their own country are seriously threatened, and to include in this investigation temporary accommodation, known as B67, so that the pressure on current reception facilities can be eased, municipalities do not get everything on their plate and the government also assumes its responsibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-853]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Ministers and the Secretary of State for the debate. There's one more thing. It is still unclear to me how the restrictive migration policy of the Netherlands contributed to the evacuation. I therefore welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that she will share all correspondence between the ministries of the last seven months. I liked what Mrs Belhaj said: a warm welcome towards the Afghans who are coming to the Netherlands. In fact, I would like to ask the cabinet whether it would like to take this on board and say so, as has been done by other countries. I have one more question about crisis communication. I understand it's only in English. Is that right? Then there's the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Kabul airport is partly operational again, but that all Afghan national borders are heavily guarded by the Taliban checkpoints;]] [[Considering that 14 million Afghans are at risk of starvation, 93% of the population are malnourished and humanitarian aid must be resumed in the short term in order to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe;]] [[Whereas operational engagement with the new de facto Taliban government is necessary for logistical, operational and humanitarian matters in order to provide humanitarian assistance to citizens and ensure safe passage for foreign nationals and Afghans;]] [[Whereas contacts with the Taliban should be limited to the above-mentioned matters as long as the conditions for recognition are not met;]] [[Whereas 27 Member States weigh more than 1;]] [[Calls on the Minister at the Foreign Affairs Council on 18 October to examine coordination with other Member States and to call for a team Europe approach in negotiations with the Taliban on a safe passage for evacuates through a mandate for the European External Action Service and to forward a report to the Chamber within two working days,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen, Mr Piri, Mr Bromet and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-854]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Ministers and the Secretary of State for the answers. This is a debate that is actually taking place a few months late due to a lack of proper preparation. In a few weeks we could have saved a number of things with a great commitment from the Ministry and many volunteers, but if we had prepared this well months ago, we would have had another debate here. That is why I asked you to take a good look at places like Mali and Iraq, where such a thing could happen, not only to look at an evacuation of the embassy but to make sure that if something similar happens there are new roadmaps. I still have a motion for a parliamentary questioning. I still think it is possible for us to come to that conclusion. I'm kind of wondering if we can do that. The instructions and instructions given will be received, because the image of the ministries and their cooperation was not beautiful, let's say. I get that there's tension every now and then. That's in every working environment, but not spending laissez-passers and not being able to protect your embassy, so you're basically just spending a few days without an embassy because no soldiers were flown in, weren't pretty. We will continue to follow this dossier. It is good that EUPOL's interpreters are now covered. I would also come back to the fact that we cannot get lists of people whose lives are threatened because the GDPR would be in the way. If that's the case, the privacy rules need to be changed, and they need to be changed immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The last few weeks have been marked by Afghanistan. I think it is important now that we implement the agreements we have made. Yesterday and today there are again many people who are worried about people who are still in Afghanistan. We have a responsibility for that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. It is now important that the ministries, together with the NGOs involved and other parties that have helped and continue to help, really ensure that people are on the evacuation list during this period. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas NGOs established in the Netherlands may nominate names of Afghan staff who are eligible to be transferred to the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas efforts to transfer people eligible for this benefit from Afghanistan or from neighbouring countries to the Netherlands over the coming period are important for the government and civil society organisations to keep in close contact;]] [[invites the Cabinet to maintain regular contact with the organisations concerned during the implementation of this provision on a regular basis in the coming period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Ceder, Mr Belhaj, Mr Boswijk, Mr Simons, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Wijngaarden.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-855]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u27	Yeah, I have a quick question. For example, are Refugees Work, volunteers who have worked together around the EUPOL mission and the EUPOL interpreters and veterans volunteers also covered by this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u28	I think there have been a lot of NGOs active. As far as I'm concerned, they're all going round the table, but I'd like to give you one thing. As far as I'm concerned, they can recite people. What matters to me is that they are kept in touch and that they feel that there is contact and that they are being heard. Perhaps the Minister will be able to say something about this if the motion is assessed positively. However, as far as I am concerned, the people who have already been involved, whether they are NGOs or people in other compositions, must also remain on board, precisely because we have seen what their strength is. Those people have already made a commitment. As far as I am concerned, it can be done, but I would like to leave it to the Minister to decide how it is designed in terms of commitment and process. I understand that these are practical hooks and eyes and that you need to organize this properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u29	Then we will suspend the sitting until 11 a.m. so that the directors can prepare themselves for the motions and give their opinions on them. I'll see you back at 11:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u30	I think we're all a little upset about a message we received. I shall begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Knapen. I would also ask him briefly to say something about the message we have just received and to provide the motions with an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr. Chairman. We just got that message. Frankly, at the moment, we do not know more than what is in that message. If so, it's a tragedy, but we don't have confirmation yet. So I cannot say anything more about it except that we are trying to find out as soon as possible what this is about, what the relationship is and whether it is true that this interpreter was on the list. We don't know that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u32	We're talking about "the message," but I don't think people know what message we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u33	We are talking about the news that has just arrived, namely that an interpreter who worked for EUPOL has been murdered and may have been on our list of interpreters who would be transferred to Europe or the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u34	Of course, we're all terrified by this terrible message. Could the Minister promise that if he has a confirmation, he will send us a letter of inquiry informing us about the background and whether this person was indeed on the evacuation list?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u35	Of course, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u36	We do not know if he is on this list, because European legislation, the GDPR, would not allow it, whereas I believe that Article 6 allowed it. I'd really like to hear in that letter why we didn't get that list for months, so we couldn't write these people down for months. This is exactly what we asked for in the debate and before. I hope for an explanation and I hope for quick plans. You don't have to do that now. We have talked about all the other additional groups, but these are the interpreters who served the Dutch police and military in Dutch uniform. The fact that we did not have the lists until last week is really embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u37	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u38	We will, of course, come back to this when we come back to this tragic case. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the questions that have been asked to the cabinet and which we will end up with depending on the portfolio layout. I come first to a question that Mr Van Dijk once again asked. He always symbolically refers to the plumber's profession. I can only repeat what I have said, namely that we maintain strict criteria. These criteria include: public and visible. We would like to adhere to these criteria. I have already said that we are not blind to poignant cases. We're not. We will do it in the future as I have indicated. But we want to adhere to the strict criteria, because you have to objectify it, because you have to avoid arbitrariness and because you have to make sure that you can meet those who are being put forward as most urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u39	I see Mr Van Dijk standing. We're not going to repeat the discussion, but if it's an enlightening question, I'll allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u40	Yes, I do have an enlightening question. Can the Minister explain to me why "shrinking" is not objectivable, but "public" and "visible" is? If a plumber worked day in, day out for the Dutch mission and always went from his home to the Dutch mission, then wasn't he visible? How does that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u41	We have drawn up these criteria, and we have had good discussions with the Land Lawyer, Mr President, to make sure that it is manageable, that it is objective and that it fights randomness as much as possible. And so we have come to audience and visible. If Mr Van Dijk continues to colour the plumber in a way that meets the public criterion and is visible, we are talking about someone who is public and visible. But that is a very subjective coloring, and that is why we will have to check on a case-by-case basis whether someone is adequate. I have said before that if someone has worked for an NGO but has mainly been concerned with the care of clean drinking water in Kabul, then the risk of vulnerability to the ideology of the Taliban is much less than if someone has constantly argued for respect for human rights in the sense we interpret here in the West. That is why we have drawn up these criteria and sought to define them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u42	So the Minister gives on the first motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u43	No, no, this was a question. So I first answered the question that Mr Van Dijk had left. Now we come to the motions. The first motion, Mr Van Dijk's motion for a resolution (Doc. 843, asks to open the mailbox. I'd like to dissuade them. We discussed this at length yesterday. Yesterday, I also indicated why we acted as we did: the legally unsustainable, the administratively irresponsible, the practically unenforceable. That's why I'm deposing this motion. As far as the second motion by Mr Van Dijk is concerned, that is to say, the second motion by Mr Van Dijk, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 844, in which he asks whether people who have been given a commitment can happen to the Netherlands, we have always said: those who have been given a commitment in black So they're included, so I'd like to give that motion a Chamber of Justice. I shall pass on one motion from Mr Kuzu, because my colleague Mr Broekers-Knol will respond to that. The fourth motion, Mr Kuzu's motion for a resolution (Doc. 846, asks for coulance criteria of "not at all." I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. I indicated yesterday that we are taking into account distressing cases. But I have also indicated that once you define "shrinking cases" in a letter, you're actually going to say goodbye to the criteria you've drawn up for distressing cases. I would therefore advise against this motion. The fifth motion, Mr Kuzu's motion for a resolution (Doc. 847, requesting a new helpline. We indicated yesterday that we are now primarily trying to look at names that are known to NGOs, and about which they are concerned. They can come in, the NGOs. The contacts between the people concerned and their employer, being an NGO, is an easier one than when we are also setting up an additional helpline, which means that we are at risk of having to go back to a sort of mer à boire of people that we cannot properly place, which we cannot properly interpret, and which we do not really have a clear, unambiguous, direct solution for. So I'd like to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u44	I see that Mr Kuzu has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u45	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it's about the fourth motion. Not on Amendment No 5, because we have already had a wide-ranging discussion on this. On the issue of coulance: on the one hand, the Minister says'striking cases, we have an eye for them'. And that does listen very closely. Of course, having an eye for it doesn't mean they're eligible for evacuation. While they're threatened with death! And given this morning's news, can't the Foreign Minister insist that we shouldn't deal with it coulantly, except that we have an eye for it? This is about life and death. This is about people who have to pay for their commitment to the Netherlands with death.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u46	You've made your point. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u47	Let me get this straight. Yesterday I gave the example of the Afghan with a Dutch passport, Dutchman, who was murdered, who was married to an Afghan with an Afghan passport, where according to the rules this woman could no longer come to the Netherlands because she no longer had a relationship with the Netherlands, because her husband had been murdered. I said: in such a case, we will of course bring such a woman to the Netherlands. The moment we write down that we are going to consider partners and so on as people we bring to the Netherlands, we open a Pandora box when it comes to all kinds of people we have to find out: how is the ratio, how was the ratio, how is the relationship to be assessed? That is why we say: we are drawing a clear line, but that clear line does not mean that we are freezing cold when it comes to poignant cases. That is why I would like to stress that we reject this motion because we state that poignant cases are not insignificant to us but that they are exceptions. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to Mrs Simons' motion. I have written along a bit, but I am not sure that this issue is about what is happening in the United Kingdom, what we can learn from it and whether we will learn from it. I think it would be wise simply to include this in the research that we have announced. Because in that research, of course, we come to talk about things that have gone well and things that have gone wrong, and of course also about the comparison with other countries and what we can learn from it. If I may direct the motion in this way, I'd say judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mrs. Simons, can the Minister read it like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u49	That's why I just walked forward to confirm that that seems very good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u50	Then I'd be happy to give this motion judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I shall skip a few motions, because my colleague will come back to that. Then I come to Mrs Belhaj's question about a structural update. I understand that very well, because you don't want to live from incident to incident. This risk sometimes exists in this part of the country, and we want to avoid it as much as possible here. So I'd like to admit that we're giving ourselves a little space for Christmas to come up with an update from where we're standing, what we've done and what we're not. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a question from Mr Dassen to extend a warm welcome to those to whom we owe this honour. Of course we do, and if there are any misunderstandings about that, then I want them eliminated. They're welcome, of course. He's asking in a motion, in part no. 854, too, whether we are coordinating with the European Union and whether a kind of Team Europe can be set up. The subject is on the agenda for the Foreign Affairs Council next Monday in Luxembourg. I'll be right there. I will certainly raise that. The only thing I have a little difficulty with in this motion is that in two days' time we will have to report it to the Chamber if I have understood it. I would say: if it is possible to give us a little more space, I would appreciate that very much. But I would also like to give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you. That was Chamber's judgment on the motion in part No. 854, together with the question of coulance on those two days. Now I do not like Mr Dassen, I do see other proposers. That's what the Minister's handing over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u52	Yeah, and when they shut up, they always say... Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a request from Mr Omtzigt concerning plans for evacuations. Look, there's actually three things. The first is that we are carrying out an evaluation. That's work in progress on how it went. We can take advantage of that. At the moment, as I understand my colleague, Mr Kamp, a roadmap for Iraq is being updated. Mali's coming after. So that effect will be discussed. That is simply work in progress for these two at the moment. Then the motion to part No. 855 by Mr Ceder, on contact with NGOs. I would like to make a small comment. That was also in the discussion you had. I think it is very good that we have structural consultations with NGOs on this. We must avoid as many misunderstandings as possible. It shouldn't be ad hoc or random. What I do have difficulty with, I honestly say, is the suggestion that you have a little bit of: the more souls, the more joy. That soon leads to randomness. I'd really like to avoid that. We must always keep it objectivable. We have said that we have consultations with NGOs based in the Netherlands and paid by us, which therefore also have a formal status, also with regard to the relationship they have with people who have worked for them in Afghanistan. When people provide input to NGOs, that's fine, but if we unbridled anyone who has a certain connection with someone from Afghanistan, either through a voluntary organisation, or through a private NGO that we don't interfere with, or through veterans who have an emotional involvement in this subject, then it's not only impossible for us to do that, but it's also a matter of ad hoc and randomness very quickly. If the limitation I am giving is acceptable, then I would like to give this motion a Chamber of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u53	I'll take a look at Mr. Ceder and he nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u54	As far as I am concerned, we now come to the end of this debate. I actually need two things from the heart that have struck me. Many thanks, by the way, for the words that some of you have spoken in my direction and in the direction of my colleagues. I appreciate that very much. But we must not forget the following. We hope that we will now get a bit calmer on this subject and that, let me say, the ramparts under the eyes of officials, including younger officials, will become a little less. We hope that we will move from crisis to project in the near future, because that is what it is. But at the same time I would like to add that at the beginning of this brief conversation we have, there is, of course, a huge discrepancy between a certain degree of relief that we come here in a little calmer waters and the misery that is taking place there. That's gonna haunt us for a long time. Now we can think, "Well, we've had that." We may have had a small chapter here, but the bigger picture, with the misery that comes to mind, is just beginning. I should like to conclude with this small comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thank you, Mrs Broekers-Knol, who will give her opinion on a number of motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was also asked a few questions, in particular by Mrs Bromet. With your permission, I'd like to answer these questions first. Mrs Bromet has asked for contact with the municipality of Westerwolde. We are in very regular contact with Westerwolde. I, for my part, have also made a very recent phone call to the mayor. There is continuous contact with the municipality of Westerwolde. I am very grateful for the commitment of the municipality of Westerwolde. I would also like to call on other municipalities here to help us find shelters. I very much welcome initiatives such as in the Rotterdam region, where we are working on ships in which people can be taken care of. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Bromet's question about amv-care in a former prison in Zoetermeer. It is indeed correct that there are conversations with the municipality of Zoetermeer. I'm not going to anticipate that here. There are conversations going on. But I do want to say that reception must always be appropriate. That is what I want to say. That is certainly the case for amvs. We really need to keep an eye on that. So that is a very important point for me and for us. Mrs Bromet then asked why UNICEF did not have access to the shelter. If UNICEF makes a request to visit a site, it can always be done in coordination with the COA. So that's no problem at all. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Bromet also had the question of whether the reception of single minor foreigners would be in order on 1 November. In response to that question, I can assure you that the reception of single foreigners will be in order on 1 November. Your question is whether I can guarantee that. I can assure your Chamber that we will ensure that the so-called amvs have a bed at all times in a safe environment. Of course, I want to shape that in the most optimal way, but I also depend on municipalities. I hope it works soon. We are doing our utmost, even at the moment, even in the emergency situation that occasionally happens at nightcare in Westerwolde. The amvs are received in a separate way, by a special group of people. There's always a bed there. So we're doing the best we can. It is my concern that the amvs are indeed being taken care of in a way that is appropriate to the fact that they are single minors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u57	I see Mrs Bromet at the interrupting microphone. You have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u58	Briefly, Mr. Chairman. Amv's are kids. So I think it's a little remote talking, in official terms, to talk about "amv's." They're children who come from a far country without parents. I am pleased that the Secretary of State says that UNICEF can always have access to the places where the children are being taken care of. I would ask the Secretary of State to ensure that there is good consultation with UNICEF on the right places. I also have the question as to whether an empty prison is a good place for children who are so far from home, without a father and mother.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u59	I believe that I have just said that the requirements necessary to receive minors are a great concern for me and for the Ministry. The question remains whether the location of the prison in Zoetermeer is suitable for this purpose. We need to look at that, because it really needs to be in order. I would like to make another comment on the EUPOL list, which Mr Omtzigt has mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u60	I would like to say to Mr Fritsma, who has one more question, that I would like these questions to be completed first by the Secretary of State. After that, you will have the opportunity to engage in interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u61	May I first make a comment on the EUPOL lists? Perhaps it is good for Mr Omtzigt to know that last Friday and the margin of the JHA Council I asked Commissioner Johansson about an available list or an overview. It was unknown to her, but she'd look into it. Questions were also asked through the Permanent Representation in Brussels. We've been very busy with that. At first it didn't work out, but eventually it did. I have just said something about this in the debate. We have received an overview, but even after questioning it is not clear how that has been achieved. It is indeed very annoying that the GDPR is obstructing further sharing of the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u62	There is an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u63	This all sounds very bureaucratic, and of course it is. So I really expect a more detailed explanation of this. You don't have to do that. You don't have to do that. Who, on the basis of GDPRs, is refusing to give lists of interpreters of the EUPOL mission? That is the police mission to which countries such as the Netherlands, France, Belgium and Italy have participated. Those interpreters helped and protected our Dutch policemen there with their abilities. In the European Union, therefore, we do have those lists, but we cannot share them on the basis of the privacy legislation, which is the GDPR because the privacy of those people would be compromised, while their greatest human right, namely the right to life, is at stake. So I really want to have a clear explanation of who thought these lists could not come here for months until three days ago. And now we find that one of the people, we don't even know if he was on it or not, was killed. So I'm really expecting an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u64	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u65	There is no bureaucratic operation on the part of Justice and Security. We do our very best, have done our very best and continue to do our very best to find out a good list. We finally got a list after a lot of pain and trouble, a very limited list. We can't share it because of the GDPR. That is unsatisfactory. That is why I spoke with Commissioner Johansson. The Netherlands has received relief questions from around 40 EUPOL interpreters. Of these, 30 have since left Afghanistan. It is precisely because of the work of EUPOL interpreters in Afghanistan, including for the Netherlands, that they are covered by the interpretation arrangements we have. Mr Dassen said that correspondence would be available. I said in the debate that I am prepared to make available the correspondence available in the public domain. Of course, it will never be correspondence about individual matters. I have made a limitation: the correspondence that is available in the public domain. That is what I said in the debate. Mr Fritsma asked how many people had returned to Afghanistan with an asylum background. There's a number mentioned in a meeting. Apparently that was the technical briefing or an information meeting. At the moment, I cannot mention any number to confirm the number mentioned by Mr Fritsma. In most cases they are Dutch indeed, although with an Afghan background, but Dutch. I do not intend to distinguish between Dutch on the basis of their background, whether they are Dutch, Dutch-Dutch, Dutch-Afghanen or whatever. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr Fritsma has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u67	Absolutely, because of course there is absolutely nothing to settle for. It is very relevant to know how many people with an Afghan background have gone back to Afghanistan for family visits or holidays, while they have entered the Netherlands with the story that they are insecure their lives there. There are two things that matter. A: to understand how much abuse is being made of our asylum system. Of course, the shit is fooled by these people. They weren't unsafe in Afghanistan. And b: it is relevant to know because the residence permit or Dutch nationality must be withdrawn. The Aliens Act and the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap make this both possible. I have these articles with me. Both make it possible to lose the Dutch citizenship and lose the residence permit in case of fraud. So if Mrs Broekers-Knol doesn't answer this, I won't settle for that. This has to be answered for the above reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u68	The suggestion... I said in the debate that if someone has a fixed-term residence permit, it is indeed not allowed to return to the country of origin. The IND will assess, in an individual case, on the basis of the circumstances of the case, whether there is any reason to withdraw the residence permit. With an indefinite residence permit it is possible to travel to the country of origin. That is the regulation; that is just the way it is. For Dutch, of whatever origin they are, it is possible to travel the world. Maybe visas are needed, but at least you can travel the world with them. Those people once came from Afghanistan, asked for and got asylum and eventually acquired Dutch citizenship. I said in the debate that all kinds of demands are being made and all kinds of assessments are being made. If that assessment is that someone has become Dutcher, then that is a fact. Then there is no fraud if someone then travels to the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u69	You have had a debate on this between yourselves. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u70	The question is very simple. Of course, it is not a question of whether or not someone is allowed to travel back to the country of origin. The point is that people with incorrect data often put up an asylum story. They say that they are not sure of their lives in Afghanistan, but then return to that country for vacation or family visit. To make it quite specific: even an indefinite residence permit may be revoked on the basis of Article 35 (1) of the Foreigner's Act because of the provision of incorrect data or the retention of data. These people have lied, these people have provided false data and so that residence permit should be withdrawn. To make it even more concrete: the withdrawal of Dutch nationality may result from fraud based on the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, article 14. This is what this is about. That's why we need to know how many people this is about. With these articles in hand, you need to tackle this fraud. If you do not tackle this fraud, you will give the signal: "Come to the Netherlands. It doesn't matter if you're screwing around. If we find out, even then we won't send you away, even then you can stay here." This cannot be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u71	Mr Fritsma pretends that those who have become Dutch automatically commit fraud when returning to the country of origin. There is often a huge time lag between the acquisition of Dutch citizenship and the moment when someone came to the Netherlands for asylum. Mr Fritsma says in general that there is fraud, because these people have become Dutch and still go back to the country of origin. I'm not gonna let that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u72	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u73	No, no, no, no, we're not going to do this debate again. We are not going to repeat this debate. You may make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u74	I can always make a point of order. Article 68 Constitution guarantees my right to receive information from the Cabinet. I specifically asked how many people from the Netherlands have gone back to Afghanistan. The Secretary of State just doesn't answer. I'm just making a very simple appeal, Mr. Chairman, to my right to information. You should also support me in this as President. I just indicated why it's relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u75	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u76	I said they're Dutch. I don't want to make a distinction based on background. I said that. So I did answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u77	Clear. I ask the Secretary of State to continue with the questions that are still open and also to go to the judgements on the motions. I also see that there is another interruption by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u78	May I ask an enlightening question on another subject? The government wants to have the room to evacuate in desperate cases. That's what I call discretion. I thought it was abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u79	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has answered the question about the distressing cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u80	Exactly. We are not going to have a discussion on other matters or hold a broader asylum debate. We're not gonna do that here. I'm giving the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer the questions and board the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u81	The motion in part No. 845 I must, unfortunately, advise against, because the definition of the nuclear family is based on the existing integration policy, the EU-Family Reunion Directive and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. It is not wise to deviate from that in the way proposed by the motion. Then the motion to part No. 848 by Mrs Piri, the warm welcome. I can give that motion judgment room. We're working hard on a good shelter. Together with the Minister of Defence, we are going to see how best to implement this, including the suggestion of involving the veterans. Then the motion to part No. 849 by Mr Fritsma on reception in the region. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade him. Reception in the region is important, but the Netherlands has and takes a special responsibility here. We respect our international obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u82	You have an interruption by Mr Van Wijngaarden on the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u83	Yes, I have an interruption regarding the motion in part No. 848. Do I understand correctly that the buddy system with veterans and volunteers is really a new element, and that we already see other elements of the motion in the existing policy? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u84	I said that I and the Secretary of Defense are going to see how we can best implement the motion, and that is the motion in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u85	But things like decent care, guidance to work and so on are, I think, elements that are not necessarily new to this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u86	We're gonna take the Secretary of Defense to see how best to implement the buddy system. Then I was at the motion in part no. Mr Fritsma of the PVV, on the withdrawal of residence permits. I must dissuade them, and I refer to what I have already said about this. That's the motion in part No. 850.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u87	That's just been discussed, Mr. Fritsma. I see you're trying again, but we just talked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u88	Another point, Mr President. I have just made a point of order about the fact that the Secretary of State does not answer the very specific question of how many people returned to Afghanistan. Is that 900, like we heard at a hearing, or not? I want a vote on that. It's my right to ask for a vote. I'm taking this very seriously. Under Article 68 of the Constitution, I have the right to reply. I do not get it, so I would like to request a vote on the point that the Secretary of State has to answer. It's very simple. It is a very simple question: is the number of 900 Afghans who have gone back, or isn't it? I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u89	I suggest that the Secretary of State completes the motions, and then we come back to Mr Fritsma's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u90	I had by now arrived at the motion in part No. 852. I must advise against this, because I also refer to what I said in the motion for a resolution on item No. Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr It's about expanding the nuclear family. Then the motion to part No. 853 by Mrs Van der Plas. What the motion asks is what we do every day. There is frequent contact with the National Real Estate Company. In addition, of course, there is always a need for the consent of the municipality concerned. That's important, too. I see the motion as a further incentive to pursue this policy, and I therefore give her Chamber of Justice judgment. That's it, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u91	I understand that it is not an official point of order that Mr Fritsma has made and that the Chamber must deal with the answers given by the Secretary of State. We are going to vote this afternoon on the motions and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u92	It is the right of a Member of Parliament to ask for votes on any point, especially if it is relevant in the debate on this subject. So I'm sticking to my request. This can't wait, Mr. Chairman. I would now like to vote on the point that has to be answered to a very specific question. I just have that right. I'm not gonna take...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u93	I give the floor to Mr Kuzu. We're going to vote on the motions on this anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr President, I support you in this. It's not a point of order. It is a request from Mr Fritsma to which he has already received an answer. If a little kid gets into trouble when you don't get what you want, it doesn't fit Mr. Fritsma at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u95	I see Mrs Belhaj standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u96	I honestly don't understand. The Secretary of State is responding. It's just maybe an answer you don't want to hear, Mr. Fritsma. Anyway, you don't think so. Voting is fine, but I would suggest that we do so this afternoon when we vote. If you take yourself seriously and your point seriously, then you should do it at the right time, because now I can just estimate that it's complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u97	This is not a point of order. I checked it again. You have to do it with the answers that have been given. We are going to vote this afternoon on the motions that have been tabled. In the next debate, of course, you will be able to table a motion on the subject. I still see Mr Omtzigt. Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u98	It is fine if it is included in the votes this afternoon, because if hopefully a majority of the House agrees, then the Secretary of State will be able to reply after those votes. I am concerned about the need for an answer. It doesn't have to be now; it's allowed at the time of the vote. Then I will respond to Mrs Belhaj's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u99	The question has been answered. You do not like the answer, but this is not a point of order that we can vote on. I give Mr Omtzigt...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u100	I just want clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u101	We can continue this discussion. I checked: it is not a point of order that we can put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u102	I don't care if I don't like the answer. I am concerned that under Article 68 of the Constitution I am entitled to information. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u103	You certainly have a right to information. That is why there is also an opportunity to ask written questions. I'd like to point that way out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u104	I am entitled to vote if I so request, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u105	No, this is not how a point of order works. I would like to look at Mr Omtzigt, who is also at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u106	It's a question of fact. The memo from then Minister De Vries says that, if there is any answer to be given, it must be given within a reasonable period of time. Whether within an hour is reasonable, I have doubts about that. This could actually happen in a week. But this question is not difficult to find out, so the government has an answer to that. I object to voting for another reason. That is because Article 68 is an individual right of a Member of the States-General and not the right of the majority. If you put it to the vote here, you could give the majority the right to prevent someone from asking. You shouldn't want that. The Secretary of State simply has to sort this out in a reasonable manner within a reasonable time, and that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u107	Fine. That's a nice addition. Mr Fritsma has the opportunity to ask written questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u108	Then let's get to that right now. Otherwise, I will be here to ask for votes. Let's just sort this out reasonably. At what time can the Secretary of State answer this factual question? If the Secretary of State can clarify that, I withdraw my request for votes. If the Secretary of State doesn't do that, I'll be right here with the arrangement and then we'll vote. I can't make it any prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u109	Briefly, the Secretary of State about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u110	We don't know the exact number because people don't have to report. In the end, we know how many people we have evacuated, but people do not need to report in the sense of: I have a Dutch passport; I have been evacuated. In addition, I repeat that we do not see which Dutch have what origin, because if I understand Mr Fritsma's question correctly, we must indicate how many Dutch people with Afghan origin have been evacuated. Then Mr Fritsma says: they may have been guilty of fraud. I'm not going down that road. Once again, we do not know the exact number, because we do not need to report ourselves. I hope that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u111	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the rulers and the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-14-tweedekamer-4.u112	We're suspending the meeting.
