ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the future of housing for the elderly. I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would also like to welcome Members in the Chamber, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Everyone has four minutes' speaking time. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV. I would like to agree with Members as follows: four questions or comments to each other in the first term and four questions or comments to the directors. First, I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is always nice, such a new Chamber, because then colleagues will make their maiden speech, like Mrs Werner tonight. I've never made a maiden speech, but the nice thing is that this subject might be a good opportunity. My background is architecture. I used to work at an architectural firm. I have a bul and a master's degree and I have the title "Master of Arts." In the current corona time you are a specialist or someone with expertise in a particular field. Let me say just a little bit at this moment and for this subject that I have a lot of feelings for this field. Because of my illness I have had to distance myself from it, but it will be in my heart forever that a roof above our head is the most important shelter we know. When it comes to the subject before me, I always say to my colleagues: well, make me a year's Minister for Health and Sport, or Minister for Health and Sport, and I immediately solve the staff shortage. Because that's easy to fix when you're converting a few links. I'm absolutely convinced of that. But when it comes to housing for the elderly, we really have a big problem ahead of us. A problem TNO says is about 164.000 places for nursing home care, then it is about renewal and new nursing home sites to be built before 2040. In addition, we have a large construction project. It used to be a nursing home, the sheltered living environment for people who start to demente. Then there is a huge construction task for those who do not start to dement, but do lack something and, for example, need a house without thresholds. Mr. Chairman. This debate was suddenly removed from the plenary agenda a year and a half ago. The funny thing is that you can usually say that nothing happened in the meantime, but that in the meantime a lot has happened. I am talking, for example, about the Task Force on Living and Care, which writes about the increase in the number of dementias, the death doer, who grows to more than 0.5 million in 2040. 40,000 people now live in an unsuitable home. Municipalities have to make residential care visions. The Forest Committee says "go remodel" and makes 40 recommendations. Think also of the Monitor Elder Housing, which allocates 20 million euros to clustered housing, which is not very much of course. There is a need for a larger and different housing offer. I am also talking about the Action Agenda Working together on living well, which says that 1 million new homes need to be built. I was talking about the TNO forecast. I also mention the 164,000 new nursing home sites. Think of the concrete construction plans for 14,000 nursing homes with accommodation and 8,000 nursing homes without accommodation. And I call the action programme capacity and waiting lists nursing homes. Expected shortage of Wlz healthcare supply in 2040: 122.000. In 2025, it's going to be 22,000. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the administrative arrangements. I'd like to spend my last minute on that. Many reports have been produced over the past year, but the administrative arrangements are very disappointing. The administrative agreements are that by 2031 100,000 additional homes are needed and that 25,000 nursing homes are added. That's far too little. Then you won't get there. A roof above your head is a primary need for life and all for people who are old and vulnerable. That is why I would like to thank everyone who is here today. I am referring to the people in the public gallery, fortunately, but also to the great rise of colleagues. What is needed is central direction. In this row of reports, all the figures contradict each other. The numbers contradict each other and whatever contradicts each other is where the direction should be. I think it's rural. I think there should be national guidance. That is why I call on the people who are going to form to come with an Elder Housing Minister. At the very least, I would argue for central and national direction, to give this problem hands and feet. 'Cause it can't just be superficial plans, and it can't just be reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. And I congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u4	In a moment Geert Wilders will come around the corner with a bunch of flowers. No, I'm not. That was 15 years ago, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is no shortage of figures and very large stacks of paper; I think Mrs Agema has shown this very clearly. I want to talk about the elderly, which is what this evening is about. To begin with, I would like to talk about the 120 elderly people who now live here in The Hague in one of the locations of HWW. 120 people who have been told that they have to move within three months are obliged to move, because another nursing home location is closing. This is the umpteenth time we have to talk here about nursing homes disappearing, when we just -- we've heard it already, we have a huge shortage and we need a lot of locations. I have talked to this Minister, Minister De Jonge, many times about closing down small-scale locations. In Montfoort, in Utrecht, very recently still in Apeldoorn; it is just too often that elderly people are brought from one place to another in the final phase of their lives. We want to have a debate here on how to build more for older people, but in the meantime we are only reading about the breakdown of care locations. That really has to stop very quickly. Mr. Chairman. There are plans for about 13,000 extra nursing homes towards 2025, but we know that this is not nearly enough, that it must be at least 30,000. It's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... There's a lot of writing, but too little is happening. It doesn't come off the ground because the market parties aren't gonna settle it among themselves; you're gonna need a governing government. But the government isn't here. One looks at each other: municipalities look at corporations, corporations look at healthcare providers and there is no one in charge to solve the immense problem of the huge shortage of elderly homes that we will soon have. In 2018 we discussed here in this building the SP plan for the construction of healthcare neighbourhoods. Fortunately, that plan received a lot of support from a large part of this House of Representatives and also, eventually, with some hanging and strangling, from this Minister. But three years later, there will be very little of all beautiful plans for more small-scale homes in the neighborhood. It's just not gonna work out. The incentive arrangement that exists has not been used for 99%. That's a huge failure, isn't it, considering this minister's been working on this for his entire period? Mr. Chairman. Where did it go wrong? That is, of course, in the previous cabinet, the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, which closed the nursing homes. People want to live at home as long as possible, was the motto. And that's often the case; a lot of people want to. But not everyone. That is why freedom of choice must remain. People should have the choice between living at home with good care at home or in their own neighborhood, getting old in a small place pleasantly, with other elderly people, with contact nearby and always close to care. But that freedom of choice has been taken from people. Now the motto is: if you can still press a button, you can stay home. Because if you can still press a button, even if you can't do anything else, home care can always come along. Mr. Chairman. We really need to get rid of that thought now. If we want the huge deficits to be resolved, we need to give older people the freedom of choice. Then we have to offer elderly people the opportunity to live together, to grow old in their own neighborhood. The SP is working on an initiative law to deal with this and to ensure that many more elderly people can get a place in such a care neighbourhood. Mr. Chairman. If it were possible to look at the living of the elderly in a different way, so that it is no longer just about either home or in the nursing home, we can take very big steps. Then we can make sure you can fight the loneliness in the neighborhood. Whether that is through a corporation, through the municipality or through a healthcare provider itself, I don't even care as much as it is going to happen. But then the Minister will have to move now and then there will have to be national direction, and Mrs Agema is absolutely right about that. Someone's gonna have to take the lead here, or it's not gonna be okay. I therefore appeal to this minister and to the cabinet: take the lead and do not wait until the market resolves it, because the market is not going to solve it by itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Laan of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. As a new Member of Parliament, I have studied this issue and I see a lot of problems. There are long and longer waiting lists. The whole housing market is locked. Land prices and house prices are rising. There's a lot of shortages. This applies to both starters and seniors. I also see that this issue has been on the House's mind for some time, but that solutions are complex. But most of the things I've learned on this subject in Lisse over the past few years as alderman of Spatial Planning. What has kept me the most from the conversations with seniors is that their wishes are so different and that there is actually no "one size fits all" in the senior housing. It's diversity all over. I also think that politics should ensure that there is a wide choice of ways of combining ageing, care and living, and that older people themselves have the opportunity to take control of it. This can be done, for example, through collective private commissioning. But how is it that this instrument seems to be so little used in senior housing? Is that part of the rules? Is the incentive scheme adequate? Loneliness, I just heard it, too, is something that plays with seniors. The older you get, the more likely you are to lose people around you. To fight loneliness, among other things, you can think of clustered living. There seems to be a lot of enthusiasm for this, for example for courthouses. These initiatives deserve more support. Some people want that in their old neighborhood, close to facilities and existing contacts. But we also hear from people that they like to grow old in the green and in the countryside. Can the Minister look into the possibilities of allowing old people to live in vacant farmhouses, such as farms and clustered forms of housing for the elderly? What's in the way here? More generally, we see that the lead time for clustered housing initiatives remains long. Licence journeys have been going on for a long time; if you ask me, they take far too long. But what's going on here? Can the Minister provide an analysis of how the Empire, the Province and the municipalities can deal with this? In other places in the country I also see very nice initiatives in which young people and older people live together. The young people then live relatively cheap, but offer company and keep an eye on their older neighbours. It also works the other way around, because the elderly can accept the package of the young people who are out of time. These are important things that can be included in residential care visions. But are these residential care visions also designed to take into account trends, such as dementia, for example? We all see that this disease is increasingly on its way to becoming the number one folk disease. Are these kinds of initiatives and these trends increasingly reflected in residential care visions? What's your picture of this? I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to the elderly for allowing them to grow old in their own way. Of course, this includes a suitable home. Often these are the homes where the elderly have lived for a long time, where the memories lie and where the children have grown up. But unfortunately, it also happens that the older ones don't come up anymore. Older people are pretty base-resistant. Some corporations use senior brokers to get the conversation started. Actually, I'm comparing that to the kitchen tables that municipalities run from the Wmo. I would love it very much, which is also very important for seniors that this is to be clustered, so that living with senior real estate agents, care and ageing is dealt with in an integral way. Can the Minister respond to the recent VU study that elderly people receiving care from a full package at home have longer lives and lower care costs than elderly people in a nursing home? Finally, Mr President. Of course, municipalities have to work with residential care visions, performance agreements and analyses, but in our opinion, provinces also have a role to play. Is the Minister prepared to talk to provinces, so that municipalities not only provide a good quantitative living vision, so not only the numbers, but also have a good qualitative living vision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Currently, 900,000 single elderly people live in the Netherlands. In 2040 this figure was 1.7 million and the number of people with dementia doubled and the number of people over 90 tripled. So we face a challenge to ensure that all these people have a suitable home with care nearby, in a safe environment, with facilities and the possibility of social contacts. Municipalities must ensure that there are sufficient housing. This is about more than just building. Their inhabitants must be able to grow old in a good way. For this, every municipality must have a vision of living, but also of working, lifelong learning, well-being, income, care and safety, not only for the short term, but for the next 20 to 30 years. So far, many municipalities have been talking about a housing vision, but that is far too limited as far as I am concerned. In my opinion, there should be an integral vision of living, which takes all these aspects into account. In the administrative agreements, I read that the Minister is going to investigate how more guidance can be provided from the Empire in order to achieve the assignment for elderly people. As far as I am concerned, a first step would be to force a living vision. How does the Minister view this? Mr. Chairman. Given the huge problems on the housing market, you would expect a living vision to be urgent, but if you look at figures on the website of the Task Force Living and Care, then you don't see that urgency at all. The agreement that all municipalities have a residential care vision by mid 2021 was not reached. Less than half of the municipalities have such a housing vision, let alone a living vision. Can the Minister explain how this could be done? Is the urgency of this problem felt, and what do municipalities run into? Many elderly people stay in the single-family home for too long, which no longer fits in with the life stage in which they live. They'd like to move to a place that's life-proof, but there isn't. If we build for the elderly, we also offer a solution for young families looking for a home. And if those families continue to flow, that also offers opportunities for starters. Clustered housing forms such as the Knarrenhoofjes and the Homes meet a need of many elderly people. That way people live independently, but also together, and they share more than just the mailbox and an elevator. Can the Minister explain why the initiators have so much difficulty in getting municipalities to realize these forms of housing? I have been working on this theme since 2005 and I read the same in all reports. It has to be done with the reports and the investigations. The government must now direct and speed up the process. I therefore call for 10% of the 1 million homes to be built over the next ten years for clustered housing. Is it possible to make half of those 1 million homes life-proof, so that these homes are suitable for young and old? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that more and more people with dementia continue to live at home. The number of municipalities that make agreements with corporations and care organisations in relation to elderly housing is sadly low, let alone that organisations such as Alzheimer's Netherlands are involved in drawing up living visions. There's gotta be another way. Account must be taken of the wishes of this group and those of their carers. In addition, structural accommodation should be possible in all municipalities. Does the Minister also believe that the elderly should be taken into account when drawing up living visions with dementia? How can the Minister ensure that municipalities pay attention to housing that is suitable for people with dementia and for adequate accommodation? Finally, Mr President. As the Forest Committee pointed out, we really need to speed up regional cooperation in terms of living, well-being and care. There must be cross-domain cooperation between municipalities, healthcare organisations, housing corporations and welfare organisations and we must move away from the annual procurement circus and work with multi-annual procurement contracts within the Wmo and the Wlz. How will the Minister ensure that this opinion of the Forest Commission is implemented? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When we talk about the care portfolio, I think that there is no greater contrast conceivable than between the two sides everything that had to do with corona. We were robbed by it, we couldn't have seen it coming and we had to act at once, improvise, and on the other hand the task we are talking about tonight: housing, housing for the elderly. That's a problem we've seen coming from miles away. We've known for a long time that we need more homes for the elderly. We've known for a long time that we don't have enough nursing homes. We have often had situations in recent years where people have been on a waiting list for a very long time, poignant situations of people who couldn't actually get the care they needed at home. However, over the past four years, this cabinet has done too little for the previous cabinet or cabinet, missionary................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... GroenLinks has hammered this over and over again. We have said: the problems are great, we see them coming, you must join hands. Then we are talking about the Minister of VWS and the Minister of BZK, Van Wonen. But that didn't happen. Too little has happened, and I blame this cabinet. I think it is a bad thing that we have shown too little commitment for all those elderly people who need a home. And the problem is gonna get much bigger in the near future. Indeed, a number of colleagues have already said that 25,000 nursing homes in 2026 will not be enough. We're gonna have to do a lot more. GroenLinks has long argued for a housing agreement. Now there's a housing agreement, to put it mildly. Administrative arrangements have been made. That's very nice. There are dots on the horizon now. We know where we're going, but the most important question is not yet answered: how do we get there? Because then it's about that responsibility again. Who's in charge? We have seen in recent years that hot potato has been passed on from one minister to another to housing corporations to the municipalities. I still have pressing questions about how we're going to realize that number of nursing homes. That's on a number of fronts. Living care visions, that's what it starts with. The municipalities need to know what task they are facing. It has already been said by Mr Den Haan: more than half of the municipalities do not yet have such a housing vision. At the end of this year there should be performance agreements on the basis of which to build. Well, you can't make performance agreements if there aren't any residential care visions yet. I would like to hear from the ministers what they are going to do in order to achieve these residential care visions. Another important point is financial security. The care institutions must be able to build. That means that if they want a loan from the bank they need to have multiannual security. Where is this multiannual WlZ framework? That would be sent to the Chamber before 1 June. I still haven't seen it. That is a very important precondition for achieving these results. We have also been talking for a long time about the powers of control of the Empire. This cabinet also said that we do not have enough control, we need more control. I have not yet had any ideas and suggestions from this cabinet, so I would also like a reaction from the directors. What are we gonna do? How are we going to get from dots on the horizon to a passable path to realize those places for the elderly? The administrative arrangements also mention an amount. It is said that we need at least 2 billion to realize those 25,000 places. This year there is another blow to be made, and it cannot be that a slow formation will lead to further delay, so I would also like to hear from these directors what assurance they can give that money will be available in time so that care institutions can build. Mr. Chairman. We're talking about housing. Very important, old-age housing. I just want to say one thing: without care staff, we're nowhere. We can build what we want, but if we don't have the people who are gonna deliver the care, those homes aren't gonna do us any good. We have talked a lot in corona time about the nurses on the ic, but let us not forget all those caregivers in the care of the elderly, who have also had a very difficult time. We also need them very much in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Werner of the CDA for her maiden speech. I wish her every success. It's nice to see how many colleagues are here tonight. That must feel really nice, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u14	That feels delicious, absolutely. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Give this girl an extra big doll in life, because it won't be much. There on the street with the Werner family lives an unhappy child. Do you want to play this game? You can, but then you are the doggy, because of course you can never be a queen or princess. They don't walk like that. It was clear to me early on that I would have to deal with prejudice in my life. Don't think I've ever found myself different. It was just the others. I was aware early on that I carried something with me that would not suit one and the other. I was dodged or praised. Reactions have always been there and they are still there. My little boy asked me when he was five, "Mom, why do you even have crooked feet?" That's because you can recognize me. Imagine if we were all the same. Then you wouldn't even be able to find me. So it is our differences that make us visible, that cause us to have stories, get insights and give hope. If you can see differences, then you see man. Mr. Chairman. So there's nothing wrong with differences. We need them to exist: old and young, man and woman, gay or straight, straight or crooked feet. They make water flow, the wind blows and seasons arise. They inspire and make life. But there's something wrong with differences when we divide up on them, if we're gonna frame. Then it doesn't flow anymore. Then everything we have with each other is completely quiet. No connection. No understanding. No love. So islets. Evenness will then be wronged. There is hope when we see that it is not about the equal of that one, but about the happiness of all of us. Oh, come on, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, What we crave is connection and understanding. The human measure requires this time not an extra large doll, but a conversation, an opportunity and confidence, even though there are differences. Mr. Chairman. Tonight we are debating the future of our elderly. Again, it is about recognising differences: the difference between young and old and all the years that lie between them. Each phase of life requires a different preparation and each individual has his own wishes. In ten years, we'll have over 2 million over 75s in our country. That period of ten years seems very long but is it not when it comes to housing? Building a home, from planning to delivery, takes an average of seven years. This calculation is from before the nitrogen and corona crisis. Scissors of raw materials and building materials and limited availability of workers have not even been included. That is why the CDA Group considers that the pace and sense of urgency are insufficient. The happiness of our future elderly people starts now, not after a cabinet formation, not after a new minister has placed his pickposts. Now. In fact, it's already behind us. I fear that this will affect older people with lower incomes in particular. That group needs us so badly. That is why it is important to see the difference between the middle aged and those who are already barely able to survive and who are going to have to rest on our shoulders. Then we need to be ready. In fact, we'd have to be ready. Mr. Chairman. I have some questions for the Minister. Do all the parties involved in this assignment take account of the elderly themselves? Do they know what the elders want? Is the care available? Is there a common room to meet? Is there sufficient insight into the diversity of the 75-plussers? EUR 2 million is available from the housing impulse for the construction of common spaces. However, the ageing population is increasing the need for care cooperatives. Can this 20 million also be spent on this? Only half of the municipalities have made a housing vision. That has been mentioned before. How come this percentage is so low? What do municipalities really run into? And what agreements are made to build for the lower and middle incomes? Foreign venture capitalists find the Dutch elderly care interesting, according to information from the Dutch Healthcare Authority. What does the Minister actually think of this? Is he prepared to investigate which constructions actually set up profit-oriented investors? Mr President, I shall conclude. More than 17 million people now live in the Netherlands and they are all looking for their own happiness. Differences will always be there. That's the power of being human. We must never lose sight of that power. I hope the girl who was born today gets equal opportunities and can pursue her dreams. I hope the girl who is born today isn't getting kicked off with an extra-large doll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you, Mrs Werner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u16	Congratulations on your maiden speech. It was a very powerful story. That promises something for the future. I wish you every success in this Chamber, but I think that will be all right. I shall suspend the sitting for a brief moment so that colleagues can congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u17	I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When you can see the differences, you only see the human being, Mrs Werner just said very strikingly in a personal story that impressed. I would also like to congratulate her from here on this beautiful and inspiring maiden speech. I think it's an inspiration to a lot of people to get everything out of life that's in it. Mr. Chairman. There is a huge housing shortage in the Netherlands. Everyone knows that, whether you're young or old, you're studying or you're a starter who wants to buy a house. Try it. But that's what the old people notice. Everyone's gonna notice that. We're talking about old-age housing right now. You can see the waiting lists coming up. You can see that there aren't enough places for the elderly and that older people who want to... I don't want to say that it makes them completely impossible, but it does make it very difficult for them to move, for example to a smaller rental house. And that's what so many families are longing for. I'm asking the Cabinet to do something about that. I think too little has happened. Mrs Ellemeet actually said that in her speech. It needs money, and you have to set some national standards for that too. If we're short a million houses, how many homes are there for the elderly? Mrs Den Haan said something about that too. That's actually all missing, and that means it's all jammed up. In every village and in every city it gets stuck and that's the problem. The second point I would like to draw attention to is that nobody is the same. Even if you're the same, you're still different and you have other wishes. One wants to live with a number of people, while the other prefers to be alone. One wants to stay in the house where he lived his whole life with the family, while the other thinks: I live way too big here; I actually want to go to a smaller apartment. One of them just wants to rent at a residential cooperative. He thinks: I used to live with squatters; that was nice and I really want to go back to that. But the other shouldn't think about that. When we talk about housing for the elderly, it is often thrown into one big bump and it is said that there must be more elderly homes; it will be okay with a few lean homes. But of course it isn't. I ask the Cabinet to remove the obstacles that exist now. That goes across the full width. Suppose you're a caretaker and you're taking someone in. If you're going to live with a family member or a friend, there's the household allowance. If you've been in a housing corporation's rental house for 20 years, you can't take the rent. If you want to live smaller on maybe half the square meters, you have to pay more. No one's gonna do that. So if you can bring your rent rights, you can also make more room for others. They are also trying to get housing corporations off the ground. That's incredibly difficult. That's all going to take a very long time. We all know the example of Knarrenhof; that has indeed been going on for twenty years. It makes more sense in one municipality than in the other, but there can be much more. That does not mean that everyone has to live in such a Knarrenhof, because that is not something everyone wants, but it must be possible. I ask the cabinet why it does so little. The third and final point is accessibility. I stand here as a PvdAer in the tradition of Otwin van Dijk and Marjo van Dijken, both of whom were extremely concerned about accessibility in the Netherlands. That's about houses that you can get a little everywhere.. but also the surroundings. The Netherlands doesn't look so great in that respect. You can build a few houses where you can easily reach the sink or where you have no threshold or step, but if you then go outside and you cannot get to the supermarket because there are baking bikes everywhere, then you are nowhere yet. That's a problem, like you can't go to the bathroom when you go to the market. That's a real problem. And that problem is getting bigger rather than smaller. Marjo van Dijken is still with us on the ombudsteam in Groningen and he spoke to me again last week: that is not going well at all. It's part of the game. You can have a nice place to stay, but if people can't get anywhere, it's not gonna do you much good. So I'm asking the Cabinet to answer that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Tellegen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u20	I too would like to congratulate Mrs Werner on her very beautiful story. After the word "doll," it was completely quiet. So welcome and congratulations. Mr. Chairman. You shouldn't move an old tree. It has its roots deep in the ground where it has often been for decades. The same applies to the elderly. People who get older prefer to stay where they have lived for years: in their familiar surroundings. Fortunately, for many elderly people, that wish is also fulfilled. They can live wherever they want: at home, with as much freedom as possible and their own direction. Sometimes the house is adapted and they get home care. Unfortunately, not everyone is given that and staying at home is no longer possible. Then the search begins for an alternative place to live. For the most vulnerable elderly, this is sometimes inevitable a place in the nursing home, but for most elderly people it is about finding a smaller house, an apartment, a senior home or is it about an adapted home where combining living and caring is possible. A place so attractive that the old tree is willing to move. There's quite a few of those places. Beautiful examples are De Spindel in Krabbendijke, Zeeland, Blue Hat in Schiedam or Zonnetij in Aarle-Rixtel, Noord-Brabant. All these projects show that where people get their hands together and innovation the space can be created suitable living facilities with care for the elderly. But it takes guts and courage and willingness to just do it. So I ask both ministers how we are going to ensure that these fine local examples get much more follow-up. It has already been said: there are stacks of notes, initiatives, reports and analyses to meet the challenge of the shortage of senior homes. Mrs. Agema has them in front of her. Everyone is aware of the urgency, and yet. When I read the last letter from both regiments, I think: nice and nice these board arrangements, but how? And what do we do if these deadlines aren't met? It says in the letter: By mid 2021, all municipalities have a residential care vision. But that hasn't built a house yet. And it's now mid 2021. As Mrs Ellemeet said, performance agreements must be linked to this by the end of this year. My question to the rulers is: how realistic is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u21	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Agema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u22	I very much welcome the concerns expressed here by Mrs Tellegen of the VVD. This means that this problem is clearly on the retina of the VVD. She also asks questions about the administrative arrangements. I am shocked at how low those figures are compared to the estimates made of what is needed, for example by TNO. What does Mrs. Tellegen want? Should the rulers say they're going to make the estimates come true? Or should we be satisfied with some of it later? What does the VVD want realized before 2040?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u23	That's a very big question. It starts with the fact that we all need to know what numbers we're talking about. Mrs Agema had just made a very valid point in her own contribution: the figures and numbers are fluctuating. As a newcomer to this file, I couldn't turn it into chocolate. So it starts with a common analysis. Then you know what your assignment is. I'm sure that assignment is now in those administrative arrangements. I think that's the minimum we have to do. These agreements are based on an analysis made by the cabinet. We need 25,000 places in the nursing homes. I do not have the figures 100% ready here, but it seems to me that at least we are going to stick to what is in it. Maybe there's more to it than that. So it seems to me that we're going to work on that. Tonight's question, and I hear all my fellow Members saying the same, is: how are we going to actually shape these agreements and make them concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u24	Actually, I was wondering if the VVD had any idea. Because if TNO specifically calculates that until 2040 we need 164.000 new and renewed nursing homes and in the administrative agreement that 25.000 places will be added in the next five years, then of course you're not going to make it. We still have four-and-a-half cabinet days. If you assume 164,000 nursing homes, you will need at least 40,000 places per cabinet period and not 25,000. So my question is how Mrs Tellegen sees it. I told you to come up with an elder housing minister, or you have to come up with a central direction, or you have to map out what the exact... to which degree, to which level does Mrs Tellegen of the VVD want to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u25	I think we should work with some sort of very acute escalation ladder. Because we've been working on this file for a long time, which I understand, right? I'm inheriting it now. It's been in the analyzing phase for too long. I believe that all knowledge has been gathered and that all analyses have been made. So the question is, how are we gonna do it now? There is a lot of talk about perseverance, designation powers and so on. Seems like the trouble resort to me. I do not believe that we have reached the point where we must say to all the municipalities where nothing has happened so far: and now it is going to happen before the end of the year, here and here. I hope we can keep that stick behind the door. In the meantime, however, I hope to say to my colleague Mr Koerhuis, who is the spokesperson, that these two rulers are going to go through the country with a construction helmet, to indicate with much more urgency that this is a very important subject and that the talking phase is over. Mrs Agema therefore has a point to make. I do not want to go here now and shout 'perseverance and so on', because I have the feeling that all the instruments for the cabinet are there to put more pressure on them, but that is not happening. I want to know why that doesn't happen and why we keep running around each other in administrative disarray.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u26	May I explain to you that you are actually on the lowest step of the escalator ladder? You want to be clear about what the construction assignment is in the short, medium and long term. You're not ready for central management, let alone a minister for elderly housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u27	Well, that minister... I find that kind of discussion difficult. Take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u28	For example, we used to have a minister of VROM.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u29	Yeah, well, maybe it's gonna come back. I'm not gonna say that here. I have to deal with these two rulers now and they produce a lot of paper, but now it's about doing what they say. That's what we're talking about tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u30	In the end, of course, the question is: who is going to do what in the end? What I find frustrating about the VVD is that we are not getting any further than what we have already done over the past four years, namely finding that the problem is very big. We're not gonna get anywhere with that. Look, this cabinet, these ministers, can turn two buttons. For example, they can give healthcare providers the opportunity and finance to create thousands or tens of thousands of extra places, not only nursing homes but also other places where older people can live. The Minister can also remove the landlord's tax and allow corporations to build thousands of homes from the money that it makes available. These are two very concrete ideas that allow you to quickly pump a lot of money into the construction of older homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u31	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u32	And my question is: is the VVD prepared to accept these two proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u33	I find the money question difficult right now. Our colleague from the SP may find that a cowardly answer, but one of the three preconditions is 2 billion, huh? There must therefore be a multiannual financial framework, 2 billion for the WlZ and more direction. I find it difficult at the moment to say in the context in which we are now sitting: well, just do the 2 billion. I think you should do everything you can to get that direction right now. That is not the answer you want to hear, but I am disturbed by the sentence in the cabinet letter. It says literally: it lacks the ability to control with perseverance power. Then I think: "But this cabinet is at the helm! Then get to work. What else is needed?" And I can't judge whether that bag of money needs to be added to it right now. I understand that there is a need for certain financial security in order to make certain investments, and I would like to hear the cabinet about this, but I cannot make any statements about the EUR 2 billion that is mentioned here at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u34	That's not my question at all. I don't just want to talk about money. The real problem is, in my opinion, that you yourself say that these leaders do not want to take the lead at all. They don't want that direction at all. That's the real problem. They point to market players: corporations, municipalities and healthcare providers have to do it. Everyone's looking at each other. They don't take the measures they can take. I just mentioned it: the landlord levy and giving more space to healthcare providers to build more. That can just be agreed tomorrow, huh? So it's not like we can't do it all. It's unwillingness. I would be happy if the VVD would take advantage of that, and not shout here: there is so little going on. Then do it! Order the colleagues in the cabinet and the coalition, which you are also part of, to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u35	I believe I have said what I have to say about this, namely that the instruments are there to make this task a reality. That is not the answer you want to hear, but the three preconditions also mentioned in the cabinet letter are the conditions under which the battle can be fought. I would now like to hear from the ministers how they are going to do that. So we're not that far apart. I just want to know how they're actually gonna do it right now, apart from the analysis we share.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u36	Thank you. Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u37	I don't think it's okay that the biggest party in this Chamber itself doesn't indicate which way to go. What measures does the government have to take to get this construction going? Name a few measures the cabinet will have to take. We all think it should be done. I'm making two suggestions here. You don't want to take over or repeat it. Then come up with a proposal that the VVD says: if we do this tomorrow, we can get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u38	But that's all clasp-and-ready, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u39	Mrs. Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u40	Well, that's my answer. How much more paper do we want to produce together? It's clear what task we're dealing with, isn't it? We're just in an administrative mess spinning around each other. Then it is important for the cabinet to say: we are not only going to encourage municipalities, but we are going to address the municipalities that do not deliver? I wonder what the cabinet has in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u41	I believe that Mrs Tellegen is right to say that action must be taken and that we can continue to address each other for a very long time on what really needs to be done. The administrative arrangements mention the main critical framework conditions. They are indeed a multiannual financial framework, clear guidance, more direction and extra money. Does Mrs Tellegen agree in principle with these three critical conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u42	That's what I just said. I can imagine that there is a need for financial security. I can also imagine that there is a need for a multiannual financial framework that we still need to receive. At the moment, I do not feel the room to say: add only 2 billion more. If I am well informed, but forgive me, this is the first debate on this dossier, a great deal of money has already been invested in the quality of nursing care and the same kind of money would be added. I'm not overseeing that right now. I also think that this subject is so big and affects so many other domains that this is really something they need to settle on the formation table. It is clear that this is one of the most important issues there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u43	This was not meant to corn Mrs Tellegen, not at all. But it is indeed the parties that are most directly involved in this, who have made these agreements with each other. They have the expertise and they say: extra building costs extra money. That is not in itself a very strange conclusion, we can say. We have seen lately that every time we had to pay extra money to the nursing homes because, fortunately, care offices have a duty of care. I want to prevent political dawdling, by taking so long to create a new cabinet, from slowing down the construction of nursing homes and old-age homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u44	I realize that. I'm also saying, listen, the end of 2021 is in six months. It says that we must then have concrete performance agreements with each other. I understand Mrs Ellemeet's question. At the same time, I should really have a say in this with my own group, because I am not considering where that amount should come from, because I can also imagine that there is just as much fire on many other dossiers and that money is also needed. You can only spend that euro once. I'm not saying I'm against it. Our election programme also states that we want to invest in all kinds of different forms of housing for the elderly; that is what it says literally. So I'm not saying I'm against it, I just don't know what amount you can stick to it, whether you have to put an amount on it and how I should see it in a larger task that a new cabinet might have in this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u45	In any case, for my group, it is very important that we in the Chamber this evening state that there should be no political delay in building nursing homes. That simply cannot happen! I think it is very important, regardless of exactly what amount it takes, that we pronounce that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u46	I fully share the first part of Mrs Ellemeet's analysis, which may be clear. I don't want any dawdling. I just can't decide right now if that's gonna be solved with a bag of money. I'm sure part of it, but I'd like to hear that first. I cannot at the moment give a 100% ruling on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mrs Tellegen states that she is new to this dossier. I think you've been well informed. I've been doing this file since 2005 and I feel like I'm one of those gramophones where the needle sticks. I feel like I'm the needle that plays the same song every time. I am very pleased to hear you say that there is a lack of central control and perseverance. Municipalities are decentralised and have a task in the context of housing for the elderly. We see that the agreements made with them are not being complied with. There are still no living visions, let alone just housing corporations, because care organisations and welfare organisations are often not even brought to the table. Do you agree with me, when it comes to central control and perseverance, that this cabinet, these ministers, should oblige municipalities to make that living vision after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u48	As I said to Mr Hijink or to Mrs Agema, I don't remember having some real, very sturdy sticks behind the door. If I listen carefully, you say that we should simply impose a percentage on municipalities of homes that need to be built for senior citizens. We just have to put that top-down from the Empire in the municipalities where that doesn't happen. I think that is a very drastic arrangement or measure, but I can imagine that you will get there at some point if no progress is made. But I think there are still a number of intermediate steps to be made, that both ministers can give much more sound priority to this dossier, that the municipalities where the residential care visions do not get off the ground are much harder to address their shortcomings and their failures, before we come to your measure of percentages and other...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u49	Thank you. I think Mrs Den Haan meant something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u50	That was one of the things I mentioned in my speech, but there is one thing that precedes it. If you'd like to get this far, it's necessary for municipalities to have a look at the landmark in their congregation. They need to know what the demand is, what the supply is, not for the next four years, but for the next ten to twenty years. There has been enough research to know that there is no such insight. That is why it was finally agreed in the administrative consultation that there should be housing visions and later also residential care visions. I'm talking about living visions, because I think it should be broader than just living and caring. We now see that not half of the municipalities have a housing vision. Not even half of them have had a conversation with corporations and with health and welfare organisations. We can wait a long time until these municipalities do so by themselves, but my question to you was whether you agree that the ministers should actually say to the municipalities that they should simply make such a living vision and what should be the elements they should include in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u51	But that's how I read the administrative arrangements that have been made. It says this has to happen. If I do not read it correctly, this needs to be clarified, but the administrative arrangements make very strong demands, even more so, by mid 2021 each municipality must have a vision of living care. I don't know how many municipalities already have one, but they're suspiciously few. My question is therefore: how? How are we going to create these residential care visions? And when we do, there's still no home built. So I share your concern and I believe I agree with you. Then we're gonna have to force those municipalities to make these residential care visions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u53	And preferably wider than living and old people, but I'll get to that later. I wish we'd go to live in conjunction with people at all with their limitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u54	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u55	Where was I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u56	Halfway, I think, about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u57	I was talking about construction helmets and administrative spaghetti. I'm hoping to get a reaction to that. As I said to Mr Den Haan, I really want to go further. The question of where and how our older people should live in the coming decades cannot be separated from all the other people in the Netherlands who need care on the left or right, but want to live independently. Do municipalities also include this group in their residential care vision? Many of them do not now live in a house where they can stay in the long term. They also look for other forms of housing. I'd like a response. Finally, the carers. I am pleased with the positive results of the pilot occasional accommodation care. Mrs Den Haan also mentioned it. Carers should be relieved where possible. It has been a great wish of the VVD, I believe together with the chairman in a different capacity, to shape this accommodation care structurally. When are we going to hear more about this and how are we going to increase the awareness of this care among carers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u58	Thank you, Mrs Tellegen. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, congratulations to Mr Werner, because her speech was so impressive and what an example she is for all the girls and boys in the Netherlands. We're all a little different, and that makes our country so beautiful. Mrs Werner has expressed this as the best of all of us. Thank you for that and good luck with parliamentary membership. I look forward to working together. Mr. Chairman. "I'm 80 years old and I'm still healthy, but because of my old age I don't qualify for a living group or a courtyard." "When I'm really old, I'd rather not live alone." These are just two reactions from the residential research of KBO-PCOB. Mr. Chairman. How do we want to live when we get older? I think that every one of us has a different interpretation of that and that every one of us has a different interpretation of that. But no matter how old people's wishes are, if we do nothing, few older people will be able to live in the place and manner they desire in the coming decades. For the Christian Union the goal is therefore clear: older people must have a full place in the local community and their own network, where care and support are close and familiar. That bright future for the elderly is now. If we don't do something now, the housing market's gonna get worse. Then the 2.6 million 75-plussers who have the Netherlands in 2040 have no decent home and 1.5 million of them feel lonely. It's in the Ministry's reconnaissance. I think that is all the more reason to work hard on a society that offers them a home and a home. With vision, determination and courage, we would like to work on this parliamentary period, with all the colleagues who want it to be. I think there are a lot of them when I hear all the speakers before me. Mr. Chairman. As a Christian Union, we want a society in which our elders know themselves well and continue to be a valuable part of that society. Getting pretty old also gets to live. Dr. Els van Wijngaarden's recent research shows that there is also a vulnerable group of 75-plussers who don't think their lives make sense and who sometimes even consider that they want to die. Loneliness in half of that group is a factor that strengthens that desire. In more than three quarters, living pleasure is mentioned as a factor that strengthens the desire to live. Worrying about housing, about finance and loneliness are therefore pressing people. This strengthens me in my belief that it is our expensive duty to provide good elderly housing, embedded in communities, and good care. I ask the Minister what he does with these outcomes about vulnerable 75-plussers and how he wants to work on effective forms of housing that benefit the well-being of older people. Mr. Chairman. Several colleagues have already spoken about the housing agreement. After the motion-Dik-Faber, with many others, about an old-age settlement from 2017 a lot of time has passed. Now there's that housing agreement. It's on paper. Compliments for what there is. At the same time, and I repeat many of my fellow Members, what we are longing for to come out of this action. How's the Minister gonna do that? Because we see that half the municipalities don't even have that vision yet. In fact, where they do, it only runs until 2020, so I found out clicking. What needs to be done to get this thing moving? How is diversity guaranteed in housing forms? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna ask you a few more questions. First of all, the Christian Union is very much in favour of collective forms of housing such as the jungle courts. There are more examples. But there are still some obstacles, to the courage and perseverance that founders of these groups need. Common areas often result in a higher price per house. Because of this higher price, municipalities often ask for a higher price for the land. And so it becomes priceless. How do we ensure that the land for these courtyards does not become more expensive because of the common facilities, which are so valuable? Are all possible measures now being increased and continued? I refer to incentives, care, old people's homes with meeting rooms and everything mentioned in the housing agenda for new forms of housing for the elderly. We see that the task is increasing. Mr. Chairman. I also call for special attention to be paid to intermediate forms for couples, one of whom is given care and therefore only one care indication. Especially for elderly people with dementia such a form of housing is needed. Financially, this is complicated, but what can be done to make this possible? Mr President, I will conclude. I'm just gonna take a quick look at Apeldoorn. Two care facilities have recently been closed in Apeldoorn. One was from the Hoenderloo Group, for residential youth care. The other was from care organisation KleinGeluk, with nursing care for the elderly. In both cases we see that the municipality is responsible for the quality of care, but in such a situation nothing can actually do. Can the Minister consider how the local municipality can at such a time get more space to be there for its inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u60	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The directors have indicated that they need about half an hour to prepare themselves. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u61	The next item is the debate on the future of housing for the elderly. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor for his first term. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by congratulating Mrs Werner on her maiden speech. It was a very beautiful story, a very powerful story. I like to join all those who have said that it was also a very inspiring story. So thank you very much. Thanks also to Mrs Agema for some kind of maiden speech, I understand. I recognized a great deal in that, also because I have looked back on what we have all discussed on this subject in recent years in preparation for this debate. That hasn't been insignificant, has it? It has also been easy to trace that the results of these debates have always led to a new commitment. This has, in turn, led to the result that you have been able to see in particular in the last home care agreement that has been sent. Mrs Ellemeet said that the contrast between the approach to living and caring could not be greater with the approach to the corona crisis. The scarcity regarding everything that is about living and caring is all foreseeable and all the scarcity regarding the corona crisis happened to us and we could not prepare for that in any way. I recognize that contrast very much. Where the scarcity occurred in an explosion in that corona crisis on all possible fronts, this explosion of scarcity will occur in slow motion over the next twenty years. The doubling of the number of 80-plussers has been mentioned by many. That's huge. That's really huge. We have talked a number of times over the past period about what that means for how we organise our society and therefore also for the theme of living and caring. Actually, quite a lot has happened on that. But at the same time, we are not such a planned country at all. We are not at all a country that very much puts demographics at the centre of all its planning. Other countries do so much more than we do. That is why I think that there might actually be an agreement in the approach to the corona crisis and the approach to the residential care dossier. That is that you can see that the decentralised situation in which we have to do our work leads to extra complexity in finding a real answer, a real answer at the central level, a real answer to the problem that arises. Many of the questions were about that. I would like to say something about that in a moment. Mrs Ollongren, of course, goes into everything that has to do with the housing market and the direction on the housing market. I'd like to do that in relation to the residential care file. That means I have to go back a few steps and then come back to the question of what is actually the working agenda ahead of us. I'd like to do that first. What have we done in the past few years? What is the working agenda ahead of us and how do we direct it, given that we have to do that work in that decentralised environment? Then I have some questions about the residential care visions. I have a number of questions about nursing homes, about accommodation, and I have one more question that I would like to answer per group. I'll start with the question where we come from. What have we done in recent times and where are we now? I would like to stress once again that we have done our work in the existing system, in the decentralised system. At the same time, we found quite quickly that living and caring had to be done more on the whole theme. That's part of the Langer Home program. Much has been done under that programme. At the initiative of Mrs Agema, followed by motions by Mrs Laan van de VVD and Mrs Bergkamp, who was then still a "simple" Member of Parliament of D66, and Mr Van der Staaij, this has been transformed into an approach for nursing care. A lot has happened in both these tracks. This ultimately led to the settlement agreement recently concluded by a motion from the Christian Union. When you look back at all this, you can see that in that final agenda it is quite concrete and central to what the mission is and how we are going to deal with it. You see that in terms of goals, just by numbers, both on numbers of nursing home care as well as on numbers of new forms of living and care. That's one. You also see it in terms of the process. What should happen in every church? A vision of residential care must be made, which must be completed by mid-21 and translated into concrete performance agreements by the end of '21. You see it in decorating the control and monitoring. There was never any insight at national level. We have given ourselves this insight, partly as a result of Mrs Agema's initiative. He said: just look at the 20, 40 years ahead and figure out what demographic growth means for the growth of nursing care and are you really ready for that? We have the numbers now, but to know if you are building and rebuilding enough annually to actually achieve them, a monitoring system really needs to be set up. That too is being made at the moment. This monitoring system must, of course, come within the framework. First of all, we are talking about sufficient Wlz budget. In order to reassure Mrs Tellegen, I would add that the 2 billion mentioned here is simply in the Wlz estimate. We're gonna estimate the volume for the next couple of years, and that's where the $2 billion just sits. So money, I guess, isn't our biggest problem. We're a rich country! Healthcare insurers The Netherlands has made the proposal to create a multiannual Wlz framework, so that you can also make multi-annual agreements. Annual agreements are now being made, and this is more complicated, including for the financing of new construction, especially when it comes to larger numbers. That exploration will be ready one of these days, but the decision-making on this should of course lie with a subsequent cabinet, because it really is a system change. In addition, of course, there has also been talk about the direction and the central direction. In fact, all the groups have asked questions about the direction within the care domain, and perhaps I should answer them right away. Within the current framework and within the current system, we have put much more direction, "direction" if you will, into a completely decentralised system. At the same time, I do not think it is illogical at all that a number of parties say: but couldn't you direct even more? Shouldn't you do more within the existing system to better manage that direction? I can imagine that this could be done, but that is really a subject that needs to be discussed at the formation table. After all, you're talking about a system change. In addition, Mrs Ellemeet, supported by Mrs Tellegen, made the point that it cannot be that we wait for the great task we have and that there is only one nursing home less realized than we actually needed, because there is no next cabinet yet. No, it can't be. That is why there is a working agenda in the administrative arrangements made in the residential care agreement that you have been sent. This work agenda will enable us to take concrete steps forward. So I am not so much concerned about whether we have a sufficiently concrete work agenda, because that work agenda is sufficiently concrete. This is without prejudice to the need for the formation table if you want to introduce further guidance into the system. That makes sense, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u63	I'll see if the minister's done with his first block, the agenda for the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u64	Yes. These were the introductory shellings. I also tried to answer the questions on the subject of "direction on the residential care file" in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u65	Mrs. Agema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u66	I'm trying to figure out a little bit of what the minister is saying here. I understand that he is actually on the same path as Mrs Tellegen, who says that we need to focus on what is needed over the next ten, fifteen, twenty years and beyond. If we don't, we're gonna get a grader that nobody can make out of. But I also understand the Minister that he says: whether you are central to this, for example by appointing a minister for elderly housing, should be decided at the formation table. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u67	I think I am a little further on the escalation ladder and that we have already gotten a little further together on that escalation ladder, because the things I just said and where we are now are really a resultant of several parliamentary debates. Those parliamentary debates can be traced back to where we are at the moment in their order. In that debate in 2020, you instructed me to arrive at an estimate of the number of nursing homes needed until 2040. So I'm just gonna focus on the nursing homes. For this purpose, all kinds of estimates have been made by TNO and they have subsequently led to the agreements with the parties that have to give form and content to them. Until then, we didn't have such an estimate and we didn't know how many places were needed. Furthermore, there were actually no agreements that required parties to do so. It was actually the normal game of supply and demand in a region. A health care office had a duty of care and this resulted in agreements being made with healthcare providers. Apparently, the system assumed that it would be okay by itself. You have been one of the first to ring the bell that things are not going well by themselves, given the demographic developments that are coming. So mapping the current and future necessary capacity was one thing. It's a map now. Making regional plans was the second. That's why we know we're going to need 100,000 places in the next 20 years. This divided by four means 25,000 places for the next five years. There are already agreements for about half of them, 13,000 to 14,000 places. For the rest, the health care agencies say that they are setting up health care institutions to realize those places as well. So 25,000 places for the next five years. You could say you don't think this is good enough. But you can also say: look where we come from, then this is concrete to me! And it is then verifiable whether you actually comply with the assignment that is there. What we now have on the work agenda is to set up proper monitoring, so that we can really keep our finger on the pulse so that we can see where we stand every moment of the year and whether we are actually fulfilling what has been agreed. But if you see where we come from and where we are now, then we are a huge step further, at least in the central understanding and making agreements, also at the central level. Now is the time to implement it, that is absolutely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u68	We're talking central insight at one point, these nursing homes. But I do not quite understand how the minister comes from those 164.000 places that TNO counted, additional nursing homes that are needed and new nursing homes that are demolished over time, up to the number of 100,000. There's a big hole in that. How does the Minister get from 164,000 to 100,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u69	Keep this for me. I should answer this in the second term. I've always communicated the number of 100,000 for the next 20 years with the Chamber and also pinned in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u70	Yes, but the point is that if TNO calculates 164,000 and the field and the administrative arrangements only go for 100,000, you obviously have a very big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u71	The Minister will return to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u72	It won't be like that, but I'll come back to it. Maybe there's a part of renewal of existing places and a part of really new places, because the volume needs to grow. That might be the difference, but I'll get back to you in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u73	Yeah, come back to that later. So the good thing is that we get direction, not central direction, but central insight. That's the first step of that escalation ladder. Then we're talking about nursing homes. But we also have a task for people who begin to demente, the former nursing homes, so the clustered forms of housing. And then we have the construction assignment for people who only have physical limitations, who, for example, are going to walk with a rollator, who become partially sighted or badly on their feet, so the point of the zero-step houses. How concrete are the three points when it comes to five, ten and twenty years? Can the Minister elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u74	Sure. I will simply go along the lines of the concrete objectives that have been agreed. First, 40,000 vacant and new zero-retirement homes, 20,000 additional clustered homes allocated to the elderly, of which 10,000 to 14,000 are built by housing corporations, and those 25,000 additional nursing homes. That's what was agreed until 2026. That's the first thing. Second. In the period up to 2031 we are thus in the five years after that 2026.......................................................................................................................................................... "Nursing places" I have to say, because whether they will be in a nursing home depends on the form of funding and the way it is designed. So we have looked at what will be needed over the next five years and what we want to do as administrative parties, ActiZ, Aedes and VNG, i.e. municipalities and health insurers, and the two ministries. Then we looked at what we think we need for the next five years, so in the sum total. Those are the concrete numbers that are here. Afterwards, a concrete commitment was made to achieve a vision of residential care. It was supposed to be finished last year, but because of the corona crisis it must be done by mid-year at least. We come to performance agreements at the end of 2021. They are monitored in all possible ways, supported and so on. In addition, control and monitoring. In the monitoring you also really want to keep your finger on the pulse if you are actually doing what you want and if you meet the conditions for funding. That's the 2 billion in the WlZ that's already in the estimate. That multi-annual financial framework is a policy wish that I fully understand and can really shape. However, that is such a change of system that we can prepare it, but that the decision on it must be taken at the formation table. Those are the arrangements that have been made. Again, that doesn't include the houses. So there's going to be a lot of building to do. But unlike what was going on when we started, there is now a central insight and there are central agreements. Of course, that helps great to realize what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u75	It is very nice that the Minister lists the administrative arrangements, but that was not really my question. If the administrative agreements say "until 2030 we're going to make 110,000 zero-dwelling houses," when there's a deficit of 500,000, there's a gap between them. That is the central insight that the first step begins with. How many zero-step homes do you need in the next five, ten and twenty years? How many extra clustered properties do you need in the next five, ten and twenty years? And how many nursing homes in the next five, ten and twenty years? Only then will you make administrative arrangements. So the Minister tells us about the administrative arrangements, but does not tell us what is the question and the need after searching all these reports. That is the point the Minister will come back to later. Then I have one more question about the direction. I understand from the administrative arrangements that they are being delegated to the field. In one of the letters there is a sentence that stays with me, from Aedes, which says: it is not financially attractive to build elderly homes. What is the value of such an administrative agreement where the direction has been delegated, if this is actually at the heart of the matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u76	Yes, there will certainly be a lot of practical obstacles in the way and there will certainly be things that will and will not help in its implementation. That's for sure. I believe that the last specific question is part of Mr Ollongren's set, and also the question of where exactly this analysis comes from. I meant to say that what you're asking is exactly what we've done, I think. So that is about that central insight and also about a centralised approach, albeit in a rather decentralised system. In this approach, the analyses of what the assignment might be for the coming period are actually so caught up that they have actually been translated into numbers per type of home. That's new. We haven't had that insight for decades, but we haven't had that understanding. I think that is a substantial step forward. We have not answered all the questions about implementation. That's what I'm sharing. Nor can we say: go to sleep quietly, because we have a housing agreement. No, of course not. We need to work very hard on the implementation. Mrs Ollongren will be coming back shortly to that specific question about the zero residences and the analysis. And to the specific question about differences analysis in nursing home care, I will come back in the second term myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u77	But Mrs Agema had also asked another question about steering.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u78	Yes. Step one, I understand. That's how you map the need. I see a big difference between the need and the administrative arrangement. I find that unclear. I see the administrative arrangements that the Minister has just listed. But we have received so many reports over the years that indicate far greater numbers than what the administrative arrangements have been made about. I would've loved to have that cleared up. So first comes that central role of mapping out what the construction assignment is. That's something other than central control or central control. No, first you have to map it centrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u79	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u80	I miss that one. I do see an administrative arrangement, but I can't link it to a task. I miss that one. So that's where I see a hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u81	I'm gonna ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u82	I'm gonna peel it off, because I think there are a few more precise questions under here. Those appointments of the administrative consultation Living for the elderly have been sent to you. Those are the agreements of 8 April between all these administrative parties. There's a summary of what we're gonna do. Then there is the analysis of what is actually the task. That's completely broken down. That is where the task is described for the coming years, based on demographics, so for the next five and ten years. That commitment is of course the result of the differences between what you already have and what you need, given the demographics. So that's how it's built up. Then Mrs Agema asks the question: now I want to know with even more precision. She mentioned the example of the zero-dwelling. Mr Ollongren will look at how the figures in the residential care report have come up. With regard to nursing home care, this is entirely derived from the TNO report. Yes, you say then, but how is it that the Minister mentions 100,000 for the next 20 years and derived from that 25,000 for the next five years? I'm gonna go back to that number analysis. That is precisely the analysis on the basis of demographics and on the basis of existing nursing homes. On this basis, the remaining construction statement has been distilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u83	Sorry, very briefly. It's all so technical; I'm sorry. In 2013 and 2014, the funding of the nursing homes stopped. It was 78,000 and a few more spots, almost 80,000 places. That funding has stopped, the departments have collapsed. Well, blade. Then I think it's so crazy that you're moving to 50,000 clustered homes until 2030. I can't rhyme with that. You know what I mean? For example, if we get estimates from ANBO of a deficit of 500,000 elderly homes, then I can't rhyme the 110,000 by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u84	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u85	I can't rhyme with that need versus the chords.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u86	I get that. I recognize, by the way, that there are different numbers in different reports. When you dig in for a while, you often notice that different calibration moments have been chosen and different groups have been defined. That is why I cannot, of course, do all these differences here on the spot. What I do know, though, is that we have not for nothing right first of all, before we made these administrative agreements about what we are all going to do in the coming period and what the construction assignment is, with all these administrative parties, we have looked at what demographics look like. Of course, about those numbers, you have to agree. What do you have now and what do you need later? The difference between them is what to build. That is exactly the result as stated in the administrative agreements. That's how these things came about. I would like to answer all the questions put by Mrs Agema, which are usually mine too. I cannot do it all on the spot, but I would very much like to clarify the one point of the nursing homes in the second term. I think Mr Ollongren can answer a number of questions. I would also like to deal with all the other questions, because I share that need. We need to know what we need for the next period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u87	In my opinion, Mrs Agema says that it is surprising that there seems to be consensus with all parties on these figures in relation to what is in the reports. Maybe it would help to have another basis for how these numbers came to be, I think. But that wasn't my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u88	I'd like to be willing, if that would help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u89	I think it'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u90	I think it's quite crystal clear, but I'm willing to give a more detailed analysis, a more detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u91	My question is about the optimism I hear ringing through, not for the first time, in the words of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u92	That's my default position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u93	Yeah, I know. That is often very good, but here I am keen on whether optimism is founded. I think a lot of steps need to be taken before we get to those nursing homes and to those homes. First of all, they have to do with these critical conditions. The good news is that I hear the Minister say that this 2 billion is in the WlZ framework. That just wasn't clear to me. We have often seen in recent years that the Wlz framework had to be corrected afterwards, because we had not calculated it correctly. Now I hear the Minister say that the costs of this expected additional capacity are already within the framework. I'd like to confirm that one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u94	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u95	My question is this multi-annual framework. On the one hand, the Minister says: there are a lot of concrete points in this plan, we are just going to do that now, and no slow formation is going to change that. On the other hand, the Minister also says: yes, but an agreement on that multiannual framework is something for a new cabinet. Did I get that correctly? Aren't we going to be delayed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u96	A few things. What I use my optimism, except for my character, is if I rewind the film. I have done so in preparation for the debate, also looking at what debates we have had, what was the result of those debates, in other words, the order resulting from those debates, what has been done with them, how many parties are now able to do the analysis well, to have the mission sharp and how many parties feel ownership in order to achieve that in the future. Then I think, yes, of course we're not here. There is an incredible amount of work to be done, but this is a huge difference from where we were: still the same decentralised system, but a lot more central insight, a lot more central direction as you like. In addition, of course, there is still work to be done. The question is then whether you meet the conditions needed to tackle the work agenda for the next year in a good way, so that we do not suffer from a potentially slow formation. I am in favour of rapid formation, by the way, but imagine that it is not possible to do so. I am not there myself. Finally, at least on the basis of this work agenda, we can make sufficient progress here. Is the framework conditions that you need fulfilled? Well, at least to the most important: is there actually money to build at all? Yes, because in the volume estimates of the Wlz "sorry for the word "sorry for the word "sorry for the word "sorry for the word "sorry for the word "sorry for the word "sorry for the word "sorry for the word "sorry for the word "sorry for the word "sorry for the word "sorry for the word "sorry for the word "sorry for So the 2 billion that is made conditional here is in the volume estimates for the Wlz for the next period. In the Wlz the operating expenses or capital charges, you could say, are covered by the rate for the investment you have to make. The cost of capital costs is thus actually at the rate that is partly covered by the growth in volume for the coming years. That doesn't worry me on the Wlz domain. With regard to the forms of financing for all kinds of other forms of housing and care, of course, people simply pay rent themselves. As long as people pay rent themselves, I don't worry so much at that point. Where care companies are so small or co-operatively designed that they cannot knock on banks' doors to get pre-financing, there are all kinds of incentive schemes. In short, finance is not going to be our obstacle. You'd think that because there's a lot to build, but it's actually not. There are many other obstacles, which we must remove one by one. What helps is that parties are willing to move together. Then there is the multiannual framework. That's another thing. That's actually that you're also giving multiannual assurance, regardless of the annual budget cycle. That's why we're doing a reconnaissance. We have worked out a proposal, but that is why we really need the formation table to make the agreement that, regardless of any dark clouds that may occur during a cabinet period, you should at least commit yourself to a multiannual financial framework for the Wlz, that there could never be an annual downward adjustment of the framework. That's a real system intervention. I'm not against it. I might be ahead of you. It might be a very sensible thought. However, I do not think that we, as a outgoing cabinet, should decide at this time. So that's ahead of the formation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u97	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister to apologize for having to say that he wants to repeat a little less. There are quite a few more follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u98	I haven't had a debate with Mrs Ellemeet in almost a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u99	Yes. We all enjoy that, but it can also be a bit more compact. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u100	The Minister is now making it seem as though this multiannual framework does not affect the construction of nursing homes at all. What I understand is that if you also want a loan from a bank, it's important that you have multiannual security. Maybe the Minister can say something about that. My second question is about the clustered forms of housing, so whatever happens outside those nursing homes whatever is necessary. I hear that's not coming off the ground at all. That also has to do with the fact that it is in fact financially more attractive to build single-family homes. Perhaps I should ask Mrs Ollongren to do so, rather than housing forms in which, for example, you want to have a common space. Then a subsidy scheme of 20 million sounds nice, but we know that 20 million on the huge task there is a drop in the ocean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u101	So your question is, why doesn't that come off the ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u103	First thing first. I do think it will help, such a fixed multiannual financial framework. On the other hand, let's not pretend that old people's housing or care for the elderly is the most creepy market to step into in terms of growth. You know that there are more and more elderly people and they have to live somewhere. The market is insured if you invest here. I honestly think that also that multiannual financial framework... We should do it, I think. It's really wise. There's a lot to say, but it's not a showstopper if there isn't one yet. It's not like we're all gonna be with our hands in the hair. It really isn't. That's one. Two is that it is not as gloomy as Mrs Ellemeet is now saying that no new forms of housing are being stomped out of the ground at all. I don't have the numbers ready for a while, but there's been a lot of development. It's very versatile. It is also the case that if you want to stamp a new form of living and caring out of the ground and you are not an established institution that can go to a bank to prefinance a lot. Cooperative constructions that want to start something new, that really have a nice idea, you have to help. The Knarrenhof has been mentioned here a number of times. It has also been mentioned a number of times in all the previous debates. Something like that, anything like that. I think you should give him a hand with that. For this we have a Incentive Scheme Living and Care in the framework of the Langer Home programme. I have often mentioned them when Mr Hijink asked me if we could encourage the construction of health-care homes. There are also a number of incentive schemes in the domain of Mr Ollongren, including those for shared spaces. This too is often a difficult thing to finance in a new construction project. For example, we have provided additional incentive schemes for what banks do not automatically grant loans for and what is not automatically provided for in the existing systems. That's actually how we did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u104	Mrs Ellemeet also asked where the bottlenecks are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u105	There, for example. And other bottlenecks are really in the area of Mr Ollongren. She's gonna go into that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u106	That may be what we are talking about with Minister Ollongren, but it is not for nothing that we arrive at the same Knarrenhof every time. Of course, we need a lot more. It's just not going fast enough. The optimism of the Minister is also in his mind that there are now all kinds of agreements and that we know what we are going to do. But one of the things that we know we should do is make sure that there is a vision of living care per municipality. Half of them aren't even there yet. By the end of the year, there would be performance agreements. We'd be getting more clarity about control options. I can see this getting all messed up, because half of it isn't there yet, but it should be there by now. That is very much needed to make progress. What is this minister going to do to enforce that all municipalities have performance agreements at the end of the year based on a residential care vision, if we are talking about control options?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u107	What I'm gonna do, what all the parties that signed that home care agreement are gonna do, is keep the agreements we made. I can go on to the block of administrative arrangements and residential care vision, because a lot of questions have been asked about that. I would also like to meet the President, who wants to make some progress in this debate. Then we're gonna go over the questions about the residential care vision for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u108	Is that okay? I'll take a look at the members. Mr. Hijink, what did you have a question about? A lot. Haha. Mrs. Den Haan probably also about the vision of care. Perhaps I might suggest that the Minister finish the block first and then Mr Hijink, Mrs Den Haan and then Mrs Van der Laan will have the floor. Is that the right order? Then the Minister goes a little further with his story and you will have every opportunity to ask questions. Finally, Mrs Ellemeet has her final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u109	Well, this is more of a point of order. I just asked what the minister's gonna do. I'm sure they'll answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u110	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u111	Absolutely. And you also asked Mrs Ollongren a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u112	The questions about the residential care vision. First of all, I come to the figures. Mrs. Werner asked about that, too. How is it that half the municipalities and so on? That of those half of the municipalities is a figure from last year. However, we would have preferred that to be done last year. That is what we had agreed, but yes, then came the virus and municipalities really had something else on their mind, just like ourselves. At that time, we said in the agreement on housing care: at least half this year, we would very much like to see the vision of housing care completed and translated by the end of the year. There's been an investigation recently. That research has really just been completed and still has to go to the Chamber, but the first results are that all municipalities have a municipal vision around living and caring. You can see there's a lot of practice variation. That is a wonderful euphemism for the labels that are on it. Sometimes that is the label that Mrs Den Haan prefers to see on it, namely a living vision. It gets that wide sometimes. Sometimes it's just a little narrower filled out, but older people, living and caring really do occur. Sure. But not everything has the same depth. Not everything has the same degree of concreteity and the same level of aggregation. In short, there is still work to be done. That work must of course be done, working towards those performance agreements at the end of the year. Let me come back to Mrs Ellemeet's question: what are we doing to help parties? How are we gonna make sure those performance agreements are there? We're providing support anyway. There are 70 ambassadors in the country to help this and to support municipalities. We have a support team at RVO that can really offer the hands to ensure that this is further developed, and that the good examples actually spread. In addition, in terms of money, there is the incentive arrangement for all kinds of new forms of housing and care. The specific question was: what is the situation with regard to residential care visions? To some extent, all municipalities have a vision of living care. That is the latest state of affairs. Is that good enough for you? No, there's really still work to be done. You can see that for a lot of municipalities it was really something new. Not all municipalities have done so in concrete terms. In the second half of this year, this should be reflected in performance agreements at the end of the year. Municipalities are supported in all possible ways. There is a great deal of will in the task force to ensure that it is actually done in a good way in all those municipalities. The VVD says: that building takes so long; you all get visions and piles of paper. You almost said shaverian: you can't live in all that paper, of course. And that's true. But if we look back at the past few years and the debates we have had here, then the question from the Chamber was right: first you have to provide insight. First you need to know what's actually the assignment for the coming time. You have to translate it into what that means for the different parties. Then you have to make the deal that you're going to do it. You'll have to put that on paper somewhere, or you won't have anything in your hands to hold those parties to it. We do now, so we can hold the parties to it. I think that, on its own, is a step forward. In addition, it is of course not the case that the people in municipalities or housing corporations are only behind a typewriter to make paper. It's been built. The entire completion of the construction plan was 25,000 for the next five years. More than half of them are actually built. That is, of course, a concrete result and not a paper result. I think that's how we should see it. Do these residential care visions take into account the trends? That's actually the idea, that you translate demographic trends into a residential care vision and that you translate that residential care vision into performance agreements to actually realize it. But I share with Mrs Van der Laan that planning on the basis of demographic analyses in the Netherlands is not the most developed quality. Right? I think we can say that, not in municipalities and not in ministries. But that is something that we will have to develop in the near future, if you look at the enormous demographic growth in the next ten years alone. The assumption is that 1 million people will be added in the next ten years. That is so huge. This has repercussions in many policy areas, especially in everything related to older people, because that is where growth will be the hardest and where, if you do not do well, it may be the most disruptive. I think you could say that. Actually responding to demographic growth... There's room for development, you might say. To put it mildly. No one is the same, said Mr Nijboer. He also said: when we talk about housing for the elderly, it is often too uniform. A number of parties said that, by the way. There are differences and they are also there to be done right. It really is. When you ask older people how they prefer to live, they get very different answers. That is why the debate on whether older people want to live longer at home or to live together in a nursing home or a nursing home has been going on for so long. Because it's both true. A lot of elderly people really want to stay in their own house, but there are also a lot of elderly people who want to live just a little shooter. The art is to actually tailor the housing market to all the needs of older people, who are also subject to change. That'll be the art. In addition, it should not only be about housing, but also about the surrounding area. That was also Mrs Den Haan's point. Then it's multi-annual contracts. Excuse me, my own handwriting is not the very best. I could have been a good doctor. The question was about the multi-annual contract and the advice of Bos. Healthcare offices can already conclude multi-annual contracts, up to a maximum of five years. The average duration is now three years. The administrative agreement not only calls for multi-annual contracts, but also for the financial security from the state finances to be such that as a health care office you are sure that you have financial backing for the multi-annual agreements you make. The assumption is actually: if you organize more peace at the financial front, there is the will at healthcare offices to make long-term appointments and the will of healthcare providers to create long-term investment programmes, which could lead to more building. The assumption is that it's all easier to get off the ground. I think it's true that all this is connected. At the same time, as I have just said to Mrs Ellemeet, I am not sure whether this is the biggest show-stopper, because of course the elderly housing is not a very uncertain market. It's actually quite a certain market to invest in. That's about the most secure market to invest in. With this I think I have answered the questions about the residential care vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u113	Thank you. I shall then first give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u114	I had a question about the nursing home sites first. I keep finding that very complicated. We've had a shortage of nursing homes for years. The prediction is that also the growth up to 2025 is not large enough. Nevertheless, the Minister says: looking at the agreements made with parties, demographic growth, which should already be included in the calculations of the Long-Term Care Act, happens to correspond exactly to that number that needs to be built. I simply do not understand how, if there are deficits for a very long time and if deficits are predicted, then with the money that has already been made available, the problem would be solved by itself. That's not so believable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u115	At the risk of having to dive very into technology, the following. If we make multiannual estimates, we will receive an opinion on demographic developments. It's from the CBS. This demographic development is interpreted in a poor way: what would be the volume development for the coming years without policy changes and on the basis of standing policies? That volume development is estimated. What we need to do is to include in the financial estimates the volume of development estimated. You do that about four years ahead, and every year you do that again for four years ahead. That is what is in the budget for the coming period. Very often the "2 billion extra for nursing home care due to the quality framework" has been mentioned. But that wasn't a volume estimate. There was only a very small part of the volume in it. If the quality of the nursing home improves, the appeal of the nursing home is also greater and so more people will want to go to the nursing home: that was the assumption in the volume estimate. From my point of view, out of the 2 billion, that was 300 million volumes. For the rest, this was quality, i.e. a more intensive staff-client ratio. But that has not actually been the biggest driver of the increase in expenditure on the WlZ in recent years. The largest spending driver has been volume development, which is a lot more people who chose nursing care. In fact, a lot more people chose nursing home care than there was room. Hence also the rising waiting lists. We have had a debate on this too. The waiting lists are now somewhat lower. They are also better classified in what people are actually waiting for. But looking at the funding system, we must always have a covering estimate for the expected volume growth in the coming years. Because living and care belong together in the Wlz, you can also simply realize the volume estimate in the construction, rather: finance. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to build and actually contract between a healthcare office and a healthcare provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u116	It is a very interesting lecture on the system, but that is not my question. The question is how we can have waiting lists for years and shortages of nursing homes, and the prediction is that there will be too little in the future, until 2025, but the Minister says: with the 2 billion as a peripheral condition, we will be fine and we will have a good estimate of the number of nursing homes needed. That's a little weird, isn't it? You already had deficits and deficits are predicted, and yet the Minister says: the estimates indicate that it is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u117	You have to distinguish a number of things for that. First of all, the funding: does the Wlz framework provide sufficient room to accommodate the volume growth, which is to be expected on the basis of demographics? The answer is yes. In order to actually realize it, those places have to be there. Those places need to be contracted by healthcare agencies. And as healthcare agencies that would like to contract places, they should first be built by healthcare providers, because otherwise those places to contract are not there at all. In short, if you look at the next twenty years, the analysis is 100,000 new places. If you look at the next five years, it's a quarter of the 100,000, so 25,000 places. Those 25,000 places are thus partly, more than half, already added to the places to be contracted or contracted in the regions. The administrative parties say they're at the bar for the rest. In the next five years, therefore, a quarter of the next 20 years will be spent. That is exactly what demographic development is all about. The point is, of course, you have to realize it for a while. But finance is not the biggest issue in the next five years. A much bigger issue, but well, we cannot have that debate tonight. The human question will be. The labour market is simply becoming completely exhausted. So you can't keep doing it the same way you did it. That will be the biggest issue. Now one in seven people already work in care. Well, we've had that debate a lot. The financial squeeze is not our main concern for the next few years. The labour market is our greatest concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u118	I'll help the minister hope so. I have another question: who takes the lead on the construction of homes for the elderly? I understand that the cabinet has the direction when it comes to creating nursing homes. You can send for that. You can also send home care from here. What I have a great deal of difficulty with is that we have been discussing for years how to take care of these intermediate forms, not home care and not the nursing home, but an intermediate form. Everyone wants it by now. We have a proposal for the care neighbourhoods. I believe that every party now wants to have a form of small-scale living in the neighborhood. But it doesn't come off the ground. In some places it is, but very difficult. You have to deal with different laws of care, with corporations, with municipalities and with high land prices. It's not coming off the ground. I would like to know from the Minister what more you can do, apart from home care and the nursing home, at national level to build these intermediate forms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u119	If I may interrupt the Minister: that was also Mrs Ellemeet's question. I think Mrs Ollongren would answer the question of why the intermediate forms do not come off the ground. Or does the Minister also want to say something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u120	What Mrs Ollongren is answering is really only about that part of the housing market. For once, I would like to be a little less cheerful than Mr Hijink. He says that you can control the capacity of the nursing home places centrally from the Empire and that you can do so at home care. That's only partially true. The money, the financial framework, you can indeed steer. That's good to do. That's a great help. But for the rest, it is actually just a game of supply and demand, in which, I think, regional too, very often lacks direction. So that game of supply and demand has to come together in the region. We have often had the debate on whether there should be more direction in community care. Shouldn't we put a lot more direction on, for example, the neighborhood layout? Competition between providers and health insurance companies now determines this. Are you sure it's wise to keep doing that? Can you, for example, keep doing night care like that? I would like the forming parties to take a bigger step in this respect than the step taken by the forming parties four years ago in the coalition agreement with which we were allowed to do so in recent years. Perhaps Mr Hijink and I could come to an agreement on how to do that. I do not entirely rule that out, remembering the various debates. At the same time, I think that we should just do it for a while with this current system. It's not impossible to make agreements about where you should be going. That's what I think we showed you with the home care agreement. Your Chamber would have liked that, too, so we made very concrete agreements in the agreement on housing about what should be done. There are also concrete agreements on new forms of housing and care, or on intermediate forms of care. And it is true: in the end they will have to be created and realized in the region. But the good news is that the number analysis of the assignment has been done and that the assignment has been distilled. Mrs Agema had a number of questions about how this analysis actually corresponds to reality. But it's done. The assignment's distilled. That means that parties know what they're up to and feel really owning it, so that that's what happens. So I'm a little less gloomy at that point. We have taken enormous steps in relation to where we stood four years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u121	Just one enlightening question to the Minister. Are those 25,000 nursing homes, which you say should be there, physical places? Or is that number already including the places that nursing home care can realize at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u122	These are nursing care places, so they could be places in a nursing home, but they could also be places in a new form of residential care in which a clustered vpt is offered, or a mpt, or any of the other abbreviations that we are rich in in the beautiful care country of the Netherlands. So it's all possible. But it's about this type of care, so for clients with a care question as referred to in the Wlz. That's one way of putting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u123	But doesn't that mean that it's about physical places that can still be realized?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u124	Yes, I do. Sure, but not necessarily in a nursing home. They can also be places in a new form of residential care where you can go with a zzp 5 or a zzp 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u125	Then there's something else. The Minister has been working on this dossier for more than four years and he is optimistic. I have been working on this dossier for more than 16 years and I am not really that optimistic. I remember the first time we met in an administrative meeting in front of Mrs Ollongren. In that I also indicated that it is important to include demographics in elderly housing. You have just indicated that we in this country are not like that. In the residential care visions that are now being created, you say that there are more than last year, which is beautiful.... is very often not included in demographic development. At least, that's what I understand. Then how are we going to ensure that it is finally taken away? Mrs.Agema has just said that sometime in 2019, an investigation has already been published by ActiZ and ANBO in which you can see what is needed for the next ten or twenty years by local authority. How are we going to ensure that all these municipalities take that view of demographic development? Otherwise, it never solves itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u126	The core of a residential care vision is precisely that demographic development. That's the new thing about it, and that's getting used to. That's why it's not all brilliant. But that's exactly what one has to do. So you have to ask yourself, looking at the municipality now, so at a picture of today, and looking at the municipality in twenty years' time, how those people would like to live as they get twenty years older. If now your analysis is that your housing market is a bit cramped for young families who would like a single-family home, then it is worth helping older people to live differently, to live smaller, or to live in one way or another. In this way, new space will be opened up on the housing market. In short, thinking about this from demographics is the very essence of the need for such a housing vision. Then you have to translate it into the question: okay, if we want to be there in twenty years because we have grown 20 years older together, then what is needed? What are the Corpos supposed to do? What are the health care institutions supposed to do? That's the art of translating such a residential care vision into performance agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u127	I think the Minister and I agree and we don't have to convince each other. But that way of thinking you gave the net yourself even though there is not yet at all municipalities. There have also been recent developments in residential care in which this demographic development is still not the starting point. So once again, how do we manage that to happen everywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u128	The Task Force Living and Care has 70 ambassadors, who enter the country with a lot of fanaticism to help all those municipalities. So that's what's happening now, really now. In addition, a support team has been set up at the RVO that can also offer the hands, for example to carry out the analyses in a good way and to apply the examples, including from other municipalities. The RVO therefore has a whole support team that can help and which can be invoked by municipalities. That's the support we're offering right now. It is also good to say that this Task Force Living and Care is not a top-down task force or something. No, it's a task force of parties that have found themselves and ordered themselves to do so. We then incorporated this into the Langer Home programme. That's how it started, I believe, in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u129	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u130	You might even have been in there; you might have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u131	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Laan and Mrs Tellegen. First Mrs. Van der Laan, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u132	I wanted to come back to the direction. You have indicated that you have provided a lot of guidance in a decentralised system. I'm talking about the effect, so what the older guy in Westzaan or Hillegom sees about it. What effect have you seen from the guidance you have given to this decentralised system?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u133	In fact, I think that the most concrete thing is that it is just very concrete in every region, for example for nursing care. In each region, this is simply invested in agreements between a healthcare office and care parties in such a region. That's super-concrete. It is also the only way that you will actually have enough homes and nursing homes in the coming period. The second is that there is much more central insight into the need to come up with all kinds of new forms of living and care. I think that's very helpful. And in the meantime, of course, those plans are being carried out. It's not like there's only officials with their knees under their desks. There is also quite simply being built on those places.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u134	It's taking a long time, isn't it? I think we're all in agreement that it's taking a long time, and the deficit is too big. Then my next question is to the Minister: did you leave something in that direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u135	Of course, we have had quite a lot of debates. I think the system really has its limitations. My small recommendation, as you put the ball on the spot, is: make the concern for the future an important issue in the new coalition agreement. I saw an inventory of the forming parties and I didn't see this in there. But you're sitting there at the table and I'm not. I would think that this is a very important task for the next 20 years. As Mrs Agema has said on this subject, and has also mentioned it on many occasions, she has actually been the 'initiator', between quotes, of that TNO report; I am glad that she did so at the time, so we have to look to the future. Demographics and planning that future must really be at the heart of our policy. The task of care and the housing market is, I think, the biggest. In that combination, I think you have about the greatest for the next 20 years. So I hope that the new coalition agreement really describes what needs to be changed in the system in order to put that central control in place. What we have done with the work we have been doing over the past four years has been looking at how, within the rather decentralised system, you can do as much as possible to ensure that we can have this type of debate at all. We have done what we are discussing here, and that is certainly not enough for the next 20 years, but it is a huge step forward from where we started four years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u136	I appreciate the optimism of this minister. At the very moment when all the parties in this Chamber have expressed their deep concern, we find here a minister who sees it quite differently. Somewhere in the middle, there must be the truth. I hear the minister say: that residential care vision is in all the municipalities. Not everywhere as well, but there's something there. At the end of the year, we are going to translate this "something" into concrete measures. Mr Hijink also asked how the big problem between nursing care and living at home will be solved. So those are the combination houses. How does the Minister see that? Because those 70 ambassadors, with respect, are people who create even more paper, but with that there is no home built yet. I want to know how this is going to become concrete in a short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u137	Just a few things first. About optimism: I am not standing here with pink glasses looking at reality and the reality of suicides. I have a tendency, however, if you pretend it is all paper and nothing has happened, to outline what we have done in recent years, on the basis of several debates. Every order at the end of such a debate is carried out seamlessly as the order was done. I'm pretty sure I'd like to say it that way. At the time, four years ago, the coalition agreement did not give us any other mandate than we did. On the contrary, what we did was not part of the coalition agreement. That's what we've done. I still want to do justice to the years that we have behind us. Two. I'd also like to do justice to what's left. It's a little easy to say it's all paper. Yeah, of course, if you have a plan, you're gonna have to write it down first, otherwise no one knows what plan we can stick to each other. Then there's the translation. The housing agreement that is now in place makes the agreement very clear about what is needed in the numbers on the very clear different types of housing. It then makes the process of getting there very clear, namely the residential care visions at half this year and the performance agreements in each municipality at the end of this year. Those ambassadors, that's one way to help and support in that. Municipalities will eventually have to do it themselves with their care partners and their living partners, but they are supported by those ambassadors, who do not produce paper but simply co-operate with the municipalities on how to do it. Second, the support team from the RVO can actually provide the tools for demographic analysis and for the translation into the type of performance agreement you could make. Have you ever looked at what that city does? Are you even aware of what's going on in there? That team is therefore simply helping to achieve not only the vision of residential care, but also, in fact, from the translation to the performance agreements. In addition, there are, of course, a number of financial arrangements to give the building and the initiatives a real kick-start. Even though not everything is settled, I think we have a good starting position in that sum for the coming time. Once again to what Mrs Ellemeet said about this, you agreed that and I understand that it is certainly not going to be possible for us to wait for the formation together until there is real movement in the country. On the contrary, the agenda here represents work for the next six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u138	I am not denying that this agenda is ambitious, so that's where we'll find each other. I'm just worried about how we're gonna move that forward now. My question is twofold. One. What are we going to do and say to the municipalities which at the end of this year have nothing on paper and have not been able to make concrete agreements? How are we going to do that in that decentralised system? The other question. I have talked about many very nice initiatives that are there. How do they get wider imitation? There are wonderful examples of how it can be done. I would like to know from the Minister how this is addressed. We shouldn't reinvent the wheel. How can they get a wider rollout?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u139	To begin with: in the reconstruction I have not been entirely complete in what is being done. Your chairman would very much blame me if I had been. To begin with, there are a lot of opportunities to highlight newly developed approaches to living and caring. In an innovation programme, in various handouts, in working with the ambassadors, in the monitors that are done, in the pilots that have been done in various regions, webinars that are held, learning circles and so on. I don't think you can think of it that crazy at that point or there's a vehicle out there to give a good example to someone else. That's one. Two. I think this is very important: these administrative agreements would indeed be quiet paper if we did not stick to each other. I think we should stick to each other. First of all, to concreteise these residential care visions and then to concreteise performance agreements. We need to help the municipalities that need help and we also need to talk to each other in an adult way about meeting the commitments we have made. After all, we didn't make them for nothing. We didn't make them because they wouldn't be needed; they are needed. You'll always need each other. Even if you take steps in a new coalition agreement to create more central direction, you will need each other. You also need each other in a system with more central direction. We are not building ourselves. VWS does not have a large contractor part to build its own nursing homes. So you'll always need another party in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u140	Mrs Ellemeet, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u141	I just wanted to get back to the point of the estimates. We have seen over the past few years that hundreds of millions have to be squeezed every time, because we didn't come out and the waiting lists increased. We have also seen that it takes time to build. If that time isn't there, you can't plan ahead long, the estimates are too tight and you're under-contracted by the healthcare office, then it almost all ends up with vpt's and mpt's. There is therefore relatively little investment in real building of new nursing homes and a relatively high proportion of Vpts and Mpts. Then I come to the Minister's point that the biggest problem is the shortage of staff. I agree with him. If we do everything in vpt's and mpt's in a moment, the question is whether we will not increase the problem with that staff cut. Can the Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u142	This is just true. This is a bit of a consequence of how we set up the system. We have invented a separate form of funding for any kind of care that you would like. The possibilities in a region to actually direct as a purchasing party are limited to some extent. That is even worse in the Zvw system, because there we have not only the supply, but also the purchase in competition. It's a lot more complicated there. Apart from the forms of funding you mention, we also have the pgb, which is, of course, intended to provide care at home, but which is also often used as a form of financing for small-scale housing. In short, the rather creative maze we have created with each other in the forms of funding limits the ability to control the entire system. I don't think we're gonna solve that tonight, but we're gonna have to deal with that in the future. We simply need to organise the direction of the system in such a region better. That has everything to do with being able to respond to the question that is coming. The funding of care is often mentioned as one of the biggest bottlenecks for the coming period. It's not false, but it's not our very first bottleneck. I think that the organization of care with an enormous increase in demand and not automatically a labour market that can answer this question will be the first to get caught up in accessibility, quality and steering. It's really gonna pinch first. And you can't just fix that. I don't think we're gonna solve that tonight either, because it's too complicated for that. But you're asking me to reflect on that. I think I share your analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u143	Thank you. The minister is about to go to the block about the nursing homes, but there is another question from Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u144	The Minister and I both love numbers, but we also want to understand them. This keeps bothering me very much, because I don't understand them. My question arises from letter 458, in which the Minister talks about the TNO research on the 164.000 nursing homes needed until 2040. There is a discrepancy with letter 517, in which it is written that part of those 164.000 can be realized as a clustered form of housing. I'm not so sorry about that. There are countless variations possible. But with these three traces of nursing homes, clustered housing and zero residences, I get the impression that part of the nursing home spots of the truck have fallen and that the whole volume is in the clustered housing forms. In the administrative arrangements there is a very strange, low number among the clustered forms of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u145	Can the Minister now answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u146	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u147	But I want to understand so badly. The numerical basis is not contained in the administrative agreements. I really want to understand. If I'm wrong and just didn't understand, it's all fine. But I have sleepless nights of this. These people won't have a roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u148	We shouldn't do that. In order to avoid that and to enjoy our common hobby of numbers, I'm going to answer that in the second term. If that doesn't work, I'm gonna send you a separate letter to clear this up. That's a new word. That's what I learned here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u150	Mr. Chairman. Then we'll continue with the questions about nursing home care. Apart from Mrs Agema's figures, I have actually answered quite a lot of questions about nursing care. I will continue on a number of other issues. Mrs Werner said that foreign venture capitalists find the Dutch elderly care interesting. That's what information from the NZa shows. She asks me how I feel about that and whether I am prepared to investigate what constructions make these investors look at Dutch care so delightfully. Every year the NZa publishes the monitor on concentrations in care. The NZa also indicates in how many cases foreign financiers or parties are involved. Both in 2019 and 2020, that number was still limited to seven. You could say that's actually not so bad. The NZa has found that foreign investors contribute to growth and innovation. The NZa also says that they do not affect the quality of care. I do recognise, as Mrs Werner says, that there could be a risk in it if it is. That's not because there's a profit option in inpatient care. He's not here. You can argue whether or not that's a good idea. The parties who are in favour say that this would offer more investment volume. Then investors are interested and they're going to invest. To do so, you have to make it possible to pay a profit. Those who oppose it say: as soon as there is a profit to be made, investors will do the same. This can always be at the expense of the quality of care. There's no stopping that. In short, we need to settle that debate again. In any case, it would be possible to rent real estate from an investor who has invested in real estate as a Wlz institution within the current legal framework. That's not an investment in healthcare, it's an investment in real estate. That real estate is then rented out to a care party. Of course, you can make a profit on the Wlz rates. I think Mrs Werner means that type of construction. The NZa will continue to monitor this for us every year. I think that meets your question. I will ask the NZa to also explicitly portray that type of construction used. Although it is still a limited number of investors at the moment, I think it is good to have a picture of what type of constructions makes them so interested in Dutch care. We have discussed the funding frameworks. Mrs Van der Laan asked me what my reaction is to the research that shows that people with vpt live longer than people in a nursing home. That is indeed a very remarkable research and a very interesting observation, if only because we know that the Dutch nursing home care also offers a very special quality internationally, in which also very fragile and vulnerable people live for quite a long time. The quality of life of people has also increased in recent years. This is a huge achievement for our nursing homes and, of course, the result of the investments that have been made. But it is important in this context that we know very well what the characteristics of both groups of clients are. Of course, it might be that the clients who were in the nursing homes weren't there for nothing and therefore had a Wlz indication with a fairly highzzp and that the type of Wlz client who lived at home or with vp at home was still in a slightly better condition than the clients who were included in the nursing homes. In short, we are going to study this very carefully, and I say to you that I am happy to return to it. After we study it, I'll answer it in a good way. Then there's the questions about the sleepover. Ms. Tellegen asked how the cabinet ensured that the fame of staying care was increased under care, the elderly and municipalities. Recess care and accommodation can help the caregiver to catch his or her breath. We did pilots, I think, on a motion from D66 and VVD. This was a collaboration between the current group chairman of the VVD and the current chairman of the Lower House. That's how it started once. After these pilots, we have found that it has a beneficial effect on delaying admission to nursing care, on preventing emergency care and on reducing the loss of caregivers. So that is a really good result. Together with municipalities, health insurance companies and health offices, we explore how accommodation can be promoted and organized more widely at regional level. There is a learning network of municipalities to promote this concern widely. It turned out to be quite difficult to make structural financing arrangements. That is not impossible. You can simply make this type of concern with the current financing arrangements. But if Wlz funding really is to be used preventively, the law really needs to be changed. We have made a start on the legislative amendment that makes it easier to do so. That is the bill of domain-crossing cooperation, whereby investments from the Wlz can also be used in preventive, under conditions, even before people actually have a Wlz indication. That was actually Mrs Den Haan's question: can this be applied structurally in municipalities? So the answer is yes, but it would be great if it could also be financed from the Wlz. So we really need to change the law for that, and that is what we have set in motion. I think I still had a few questions to ask. At least I know one from CU. He asked: what could you do if institutions had to close? As an example, she mentioned the Hoenderloo Group. I've been involved in that. The complicated thing was that it was a large institution with a very high loss-making component. That was the territory of The Hoenderloo Group. There was a lot of trying to get that in a good way exploitable, but that just didn't work out. So it had to be said goodbye. Then we made all kinds of agreements to ensure continuity of care. You have just had an extensive debate on this with my colleague Paul Blokhuis, who is now responsible for it. I know that a lot of motions were tabled in the city council at the time. "Can't we do this with The Hoenderloo Group?" "Can't we just do that with that piece of land?" "What if we helped that institution sister or something?" But yes, the point is that the municipality of Apeldoorn of course had no direct involvement in that institution. She was only a customer of a number of places closed youth care. This means that the influence of municipalities on this point is limited. Mr Hijink mentioned a number of examples of this. It is often the case that an institution has to make choices to keep the institution financially sound. With a non-exploitable location or a location that, for example, is very old and needs maintenance, you sometimes have to do something. Then, of course, there are clients very sad about it or they wonder why their place is leaving. Of course, that's just the way it is. However, it is often inevitable from the greater interest of such an institution and of all other clients in such an institution that such choices are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mr Hijink, your last question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u152	I have one more question about this. That's a nice little bridge, because it happened at De Hoenderloo Groep that Pluryn, the mother organisation, was already working on selling the real estate even before a good place was found for those youngsters, because it had to bring in as much as possible. I thought that was one of the most disgusting elements in this whole thing. That's what my question is about. We hear there's also a problem with real estate. If real estate is to be sold, it must necessarily bring about market-based prices. This leads to problems, because real estate that is meant for the care and that you also want to keep for the care, is lost to speculators and developers. I would like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to see if that can be changed. If real estate is disposed of for whatever reason, then it should not be looked at how it can generate as much money as possible, but how we can use those buildings for care or other important social matters that we want to preserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u153	This is a valid point. When a healthcare institution says goodbye to a location, it is logical that you do not go below the market but try to sell on market terms. That makes sense in itself, because we have funded it with each other publicly and the proceeds from the sale must therefore benefit the care. If you're going to be below the market price, you'd actually be failing care, and we shouldn't want that. At the same time, you are actually saying that this also means that we are losing places for the care we really need in the future. That's true. Especially in the more expensive metropolitan areas you can see that can go very quickly. Another point, but a similar point, is that you can see that it might also be very tempting for a municipality to maximize land exploitation. Of course, that's also something that's going on here. This point is addressed in the residential care agreement. I cannot find it in my documents so quickly, but we will have to explore how we could possibly change the arrangements at this point. We should then do so in such a way that more opportunities are created to keep the ground, for example in a location which is in itself rather aggenebbisj and which you must get rid of, for care. That's what you'd do to make sure that there could be a new care facility there. This sometimes means something other than market-based sales, because after a market-based sale it is no longer exploitable in those parts of the Netherlands where it has become very much more expensive. I understand your point and it is certainly a valid point, because it is one of the bottlenecks. So that bottleneck is addressed, because that is what we need to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u154	Following that and in response to the Minister's reply: I did not necessarily mention Apeldoorn because of The Hoenderloo Group. This has already been the subject of a wide-ranging debate. I just mentioned it as an example of a place where something had to close twice in a row. This was probably understandable from a national perspective and from the perspective of the health care institution, but the city council was therefore left with its hands in the hair. Such a location means a lot to the locals, because there are people they love. The fear and care is then immediately: where do they go? That is precisely why I ask the Minister not only to outline the legislative and regulatory framework. I know that sometimes is difficult, but I still want him to look at the area of action for municipalities. Where is the room for a city council to mean something together with the college of B and W? The Minister quite rightly addresses the point made by Mr Hijink, but I would like to go a step further so that the municipalities can actually get to work on it quickly. We should not just say that it is a bottleneck that we are picking up, but that we are already exploring how to ensure that municipalities do a little more tailor-made work for their residents than we are currently seeing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u155	What municipalities can do at such a time depends entirely on the situation and is simply limited, not only by law, but also by the interests of the other clients within the institution. I don't want to repeat the whole debate, but I'm going back to the case of De Hoenderloo Groep. What played there was that Pluryn, the institution of which De Hoenderloo Groep was a part, was financially very unhealthy. Pluryn was actually not good at getting exploitable, even though a lot had been tried. There were also very great concerns about quality. So Pluryn had no choice but to make this choice. We have closely monitored the continuity of care, but we could not go down to Pluryn's decision that it was necessary to make the institution healthy to sell. If you spend more than you get in the whole time, your whole position will end in the long run. And of course many more clients suffer from that. The city council of Apeldoorn has, of course, been concerned about this piece of institution. That makes sense, but you must not lose sight of the bigger picture, the possibility of the whole setting falling over, of course. By the way, I have seen this much more often in larger care institutions with multiple locations. I've even seen that in a congregation. As an alderman in Rotterdam, I saw that at the Haven Hospital. Everyone loved that hospital very much and everyone wants to keep it. If we had kept that as it was, Erasmus MC would have cost a lot of money every year. Sometimes things are no different and consequences are inevitable. What can the city council do about it? The city council can hold the intensive debate, not only with the alderman concerned about how there are sufficient care locations in a city and about how there are enough locations for the homeless and for sheltered living, but also with the alderman's finances, who often has a very high expectation of what the land exploitation wouldn't bring. The interesting thing is that, like very rarely here, spokesmen live and have the debate with each other, which may be even more rare in municipalities, in municipal councils. In addition, the alderman's finances gets the order from the city council to close his budget. In addition, the alderman gets to build and live the order to offer mainly space for beautiful area development and for project developers who have exciting plans with the city. In the meantime, the poor alderman is explaining to us that we have not managed to achieve enough sheltered housing. I see the former aldermen nodding, because that's just how it works in municipalities. Municipalities can really do something about that themselves. This is the debate to be held at municipal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u156	Here is a former council member from Utrecht, so there is also experience on board in that area. I think it's about developing that vision with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u157	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u158	Then, of course, you can also make a financial contribution. But I would like to show here, and that is why I called Apeldoorn "Apeldoorn" that it is not just such an institution for youth care. It is also about care for the elderly that people are so eager to take good care of people in their own municipalities, but then they actually only encounter bureaucratic difficulties. I want so much that, just when such a city council develops a vision, we take steps in the area of these bottlenecks. I am referring, for example, to bottlenecks around land and project developers that are difficult to get a grip on, especially when the municipality gets smaller. Then it gets all smaller; Apeldoorn is still of a reasonable size. At that bottleneck, I would really like to take steps to ensure that we really keep that concern in order, for example for vulnerable elderly people. I would really like to ask the Minister to be sharp in that and to see if we can do a little more there than we saw in Apeldoorn in terms of helplessness that was there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u159	As far as land is concerned, municipalities are really about that themselves. That's, I think, the good news. With regard to the vision of housing care, that is what we are talking about this whole debate. The articulation of "who now live in the municipality, who will live in the municipality, what does their need for living care look like and how can we provide it?" and translating it into performance agreements is par excellence municipal domain. I believe that much more is possible in that. There is much more room for manoeuvre than is currently being used in all respects. In its integrality there is a great deal of profit to be made, between the different bulkheads that of course also exist joyfully at municipal level. By the way, they also exist in the Empire, so I am not sitting here pointing the finger at all. Moreover, I very much agree with Mrs Bikker that if there are concrete problems we need to resolve.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u160	I would ask the Minister to conclude his speech now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u161	That's a point, Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u162	Well, that's pretty quick. Then maybe I should have asked a little sooner, if this is the effect. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. We are going to clean up for a moment and then I will give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try to be brief, because my colleague De Jonge has already said a great deal. I too would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Werner on her very beautiful maiden speech. You actually give every kid a parent who says it's good to be different. Mrs. Werner's son has such a parent. That really stuck with me. Thank you for that. I have heard everything the spokesmen have said about more direction, faster procedures and good consultation with the authorities when it comes to housing for older people. The CDA mentioned low incomes and middle incomes. Mrs. Den Haan asked: can't you reserve 10% of the entire construction effort for the elderly? The living environment was mentioned by Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party. Those are all very valid points. They are recognizable, also from the many debates I have with the Chamber on the wider subject of living and building. But care and living also know how to like each other. Of course, we do this between the departments and I do so in consultation with the co-governments and the housing corporations, parties that are very much needed to achieve this and achieve it. This demand for housing is high and increasing, as we know from demographic developments. So there is still a great deal of work to be done; I feel this urgency in the Chamber and I fully agree with that. By making agreements with the public authorities and housing corporations and by monitoring and keeping up with them, by stimulating them, also with financial resources where they can, by providing support from the government, this cabinet has shaped the direction. The agreements we make to ensure that there are more homes and that we specify specifically what types of homes are needed are the basis of this. You're talking about the number of homes to be built, you're talking about the affordability of homes, you're talking about removing bottlenecks and also about suitable homes for the elderly. For example, in the residential deals made, agreements have also been made about older people. And in the administrative agreements we have made about living and caring with all the organisations involved, including ActiZ, Aedes, the VNG, the ministries and so on, there are very concrete ambitions about housing, the zero-travel homes, clustered living, and also about nursing care, which was just talked about, and about how we monitor and steer it with each other. There has been talk about the housing vision that every municipality has to make; colleague De Jonge has already said something about it. Mrs Den Haan asked if it would not be wise to oblige them. But that requires that you change the law and that is not necessary, because it turns out that every municipality already has elements of such a housing vision. As long as we continue to talk about this with the co-governments and we can address each other, as Mrs Van der Laan asked, that leads to the result we want, without having to change the law. With the ambassadors of the Task Force Living and Care, we are going to work to deepen this further and to provide tailor-made work, because it is a bit different everywhere. And the municipalities know that very well, but these municipalities can't always do it themselves, so we have to help them. As Mr De Jonge said, at the end of this year we want every municipality to have actually made the performance agreements about living and caring. From BZK we have the Expert Team Housing Building. In doing so, we can look at and help speed up procedures and deploy flex pools for the administrative capacity for licensing and so on, because they are often very practical things where it remains. We have also made available financial resources for the construction of older people. With the Housing Impulse, we contribute to accelerating housing and ensure more affordable homes for start-ups and middle-income people who can of course also be elderly. In 40 out of 57 applications in this Housing Impulse, the elderly are one of the specific target groups. I also have two more 20 million out of that housing impulse specifically earmarked for this target group. The common provision system will be opened very soon. Building houses takes time. However, on the basis of the current plans, housing for the elderly will actually be realised in the coming years as part of the Housing Impulse. They are also implemented entirely within the framework of the agreements on living and care. So it's about the numbers. Mrs. Agema's already at the interrupting microphone. So we are talking about the 40,000 zero-retirement homes for the next five years to be awarded to older people and the 20,000 additional clustered homes that are built for the elderly, of which 10,000 to 14,000 are owned by housing corporations. If you look at a period of ten years, so up to 2031, it increases to about 110,000 zero residences and 50,000 clustered houses extra, of which 34,000 by the housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u164	I had told Members that they could make up to four questions or comments. A number of Members have already gone through their interruptions, including Mrs Agema. But I can imagine, because it is now the Minister of the Interior that there is a need to ask one more question. So I'd like to give you some space to ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u165	Sorry, Chairman. This has passed by me. Then I'm going to put the question as broad as you'd like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u166	That's the risk, isn't it? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u167	The Minister of BZK is having a lot of debates here about the market and the rental market, and that is, of course, a completely different playing field from what we are talking about. The buying market is completely overheated. There is an enormous amount of money made by speculation, by buying up and selling houses. A lot of capital has been paid into our sales market. But what's so different and different here is that it's not attractive to put your money into old people's homes. So my question to the Minister is: what are the possibilities of getting investors to the elderly market? Does she have any ideas about that? Then there is the second point. I told the U.S. Secretary that the numbers seem so small. When I was a designer at an architect's office, that's my background, and was at the Academy of Architecture, the Fourth note on spatial planning played extra, the Vinex note. This involved 1 million homes that had to be built in ten years, between 1995 and 2005. And only half of that was realized. So if I see now that within five years 40,000 zero-dwelling homes will have to be realized, which I still think is low, then I wonder which part of the number of homes will be realized. That's it? 'Cause it looks like... We usually only add up to 50,000, 60,000 homes per year. How feasible is this number of 40,000 zero residences? So one is: does the minister have any ideas about not being attractive about building older homes? Two. Does it have any idea whether it is going to reach that number of 40,000 zero residences in five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u168	I do not know whether I fully agree with Mrs Agema that it is not attractive to invest in old people's homes. Of course, there are also different types and sizes in old people's homes. It would not be good if, in a given market, for the more wealthy older people, there were a great deal of supply because it is very attractive, and in the social part of the housing market, for example, very little is realized because it is difficult to finance. We now have it dressed up so that we say: we make residential deals; we make broad agreements with governments and housing corporations in which we can indicate exactly what is needed there. In some areas, it is clear that this is precisely about older people's homes. In these agreements, for example, you can say: you want to create a lot of temporary homes; we can go along with that, because we understand that, given the labour market in the region, for example, but we think it is important that you also realize enough elderly homes. That's how you make such a living deal with each other, reciprocal, where you all put in something like governments, developers and housing corporations. In this way, you can ensure that the supply for older people is improved, even where, in such a residential deal, it may not be the most attractive part for the developers involved. The second part of Mrs Agema's question dealt with the numbers. We realized over 75,000 homes per year in the past cabinet period. That was the objective. We have only received a mid-term adjustment of the demographic development of the CBS, so we have said that we need a little bit more; we actually need to go to 90,000 homes a year. For the new cabinet, therefore, the task is actually to realize those 90,000 homes per year. In the context of the arrangements for living and caring, we are talking about 40,000 zero-retirement homes for the next five years, based on the research agency that also regularly conducts the residential research for BZK. This office also makes an estimate of the housing shortage and looks at the planning capacity. That's where this figure comes from. It is not for nothing that we have agreed with these administrative parties; that is of course also because we have that ambition with each other and so we have to achieve it in the years to come. Mr President, I would like to take a look at where I left off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u169	Some questions have been asked by Mrs Agema about numbers and figures. I would ask the two leaders to come back to that in a letter, given the time. And I would ask Mrs Agema to pass on the questions specifically to the officials. I think this does the most justice to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u170	In my opinion, Mr De Jonge had indeed done that hand-off, so let's just agree. We'll work that out in a letter. I'm going back to the broader context: building new homes, getting the numbers, but also making sure they're affordable and that they fit into a good and safe physical environment. That's important. Again, this construction assignment is urgent for many target groups. Tonight we are talking about the elderly, and rightly so. I have a great deal of attention for that too. But it's also about young families. It's also about students. It's also about starters. It's all connected. If there's movement, more offer, it's good for all these groups. Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer a number of specific questions. Mrs Ellemeet pointed to the direction: the question of direction, the performance agreements. The reason why I think it is very important to have the local level in mind, so the municipalities and the parties with which the municipalities work together, is that they are best placed to assess what is needed locally. I see that the municipalities, in cooperation with the housing corporations, the developers and others, are making a great effort to increase the supply for the elderly. I also see that the differences in the Netherlands are very large. We're a small country. We are a country with more and more elderly people, but there are also various groups within those older people. Then we are back to Mrs Werner's differences. I think it is best to assess at local level which investments are needed and that you can do so through the performance agreements. That works very well. Then you guarantee that the elderly housing is part of that and that that will happen. Those are local performance agreements. I think Mrs Ellemeet was talking about binding agreements from the Empire. That's something else. That's a hell of a step further than we're doing right now. I wonder if you're not making it too complicated and too loggy, if you want to do what's best assessed locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u171	Mrs Ellemeet, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u172	I agree with the Minister that the initiative should be local, because there they have a better overview. My point is that the Minister has the power to give a clue if nothing happens, but that, as far as I know, doesn't go on living and caring while we know that we need a lot of extra forms of housing care. That's what my question is about. Is the minister gonna use that stick, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u173	That is an instrument that is almost never used. In very exceptional cases, it can, of course, and you should never rule it out. I agree with Mrs Ellemeet. So far, governments and co-governments have succeeded in keeping to the agreements without using this instrument of designation. It is there for very exceptional cases. If it was really necessary, you can always say: if it really doesn't happen, know that we also have the route of the clue. But it wouldn't be my preference. So far, I don't think it's necessary. I come to the questions of flow. In an ideal housing market there is a flowing flow, so there is more offer for families. Older people can flow to homes that suit them more, if they want to. Not everyone wants that. But if the reason is negative, namely that there is no offer, then of course that is not good. The offer needs to be increased. If the supply is greater, the flow to a suitable home will be improved. We do this mainly by supporting the projects through the housing impulse, through the 1 billion discount on the landlord's tax and by supporting the municipalities to make them more suitable for older people's homes. By the way, of course, it's about building and building plans, but it's also about using seniors, having flow-through arrangements and looking at rent retention if that's a bottleneck. You probably know Platform31. They are very active in this area and are working on a publication for this. Together with the G40, 40 large municipalities, I have funded a research by Platform31 into all kinds of methods of flow promotion. That just came out. Mr Nijboer asked for specific attention on this rental issue: that older people would like to move, but could not pay a higher rent. I understand that very well. If you have a rent measure in which people can keep their rent at level, it can be an incentive for some people to do so. For an over-rental jump can indeed be too great an obstacle for an older person. Rent habitation is already a way, a threshold reduction for transit to another property with a different rent. Then you can grow in gradually. On 1 April, the Act entered into a temporary rental discount which makes this possible. We are looking at other ways to further promote that. It's not an obligation, but at least it removes one obstacle. Then there are a number of questions about extra supply, the 20 million from the Housing Impulse for the construction of common spaces. Is that enough and can that also be spent on care cooperatives, was a question. I thought Mrs. Werner asked for that. In fact, care cooperatives will soon be able to avail themselves of this scheme. This money is actually additional to other possibilities, incentives. It is mainly intended to realize those meeting rooms, because we have found in practice that there is a bottleneck there. That could not be financed and then the whole concept did not come off the ground. So it is money that a healthcare cooperative can use if it is to create a common space. So it can't be for the care cooperative itself, but it can be to realize a project with such a common space from that care cooperative. Then there are the questions that have been asked about the collective forms of housing. So that is a little wider than just the arrangement for meeting rooms, which I have just explained. Mrs Ellemeet, Mrs Den Haan and I believe Mrs Bikker asked questions about this. They said it's hard to realize this, because often the price per home is a little higher and the price is driven up in this kind of situation anyway. The cost of a house in a form of housing consists of two components. These are, of course, land costs and construction costs. The municipality can send on the land price, for example by including elderly housing in the zoning plan or by including it in a tender they unsubscribe. If you are able to solve the construction costs of that meeting room, because of the arrangement that is now opening, I think you can provide more elderly accommodation through both routes. The municipality can therefore choose to control that land price in this type of project and there is the subsidy for the central meeting place. Ms Tellegen of the VVD asked whether examples of innovative residential care could be disseminated. We have the knowledge program Langer Home of Platform31. Indeed, through that knowledge programme, many examples are disseminated, shared with others. As soon as this arrangement for meeting rooms is open, I will make sure that we bring to the attention of the examples that emerge from it as examples of how that works. Mrs Van der Laan had another question of collective commissioning. I do see a lot of initiatives in the senior housing that come from seniors themselves and then it is often about that collective commissioning. It's one of the possibilities that allows your seniors to fill that out themselves. So it's possible. I think sometimes it's real, especially in the municipality. It's a bit of a habit, too. It can also help to advertise the successful projects, so that others do not have to reinvent the wheel completely. This is certainly true on the part of the municipalities. Then there is Mrs van der Laan's other question about clustered living. The question was whether we could investigate, for example, whether empty business premises would be suitable for clustered housing. Clustered living can, of course, be in all kinds of different locations. I can imagine anything: old farms, empty police stations. Platform31 has already collected some examples of this. So I don't know if we should investigate that further. I think it is particularly important that municipalities look creatively at the possibilities. We are all aware that it is, of course, difficult in the current market, where there are ten candidates for every building released in some municipalities. That's why the municipalities have to send it like that. That is why the municipalities and housing corporations must pay great attention to this. In my conversations with municipalities and housing corporations, Aedes, I will point out the redevelopment of vacant buildings for older people's housing. I'd be happy to. I very much agree with that. Finally, Mr President. Also Mrs Bikker... yes, no, sorry. Actually, I've already answered it. No, I think I've answered the questions that were specific about building and care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u174	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Tellegen from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u175	I was just asking about those performance agreements at the end of the year. All hands should be on deck to realize that, especially if a large number of those residential care visions have not yet been worked through enough et cetera. Then we have those expert teams that were referred to. They can guide that, but I understand that there is no separate knowledge of seniors there at all. Is that right? Because that would be helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u176	You mean with the expert teams...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u177	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u178	...with the people who can be flown in from BZK to help?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u179	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u180	I'm afraid to say that. I assume that there is very broad expertise there, but that is often expertise that is, for example, about licensing, about procedures. I cannot imagine that there would be a lack of specific expertise on housing for the elderly which would prevent this from happening. But if Mrs Tellegen has been given this information, I shall ask her questions. This question comes from somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u181	We also see the source, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u182	Especially because precisely that middle category that we've been talking about all evening long, that combination of living and caring, different knowledge and backgrounds than any other slightly more straightforward construction assignments. So I can imagine that's useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u183	Yes. Then thank you for that signal. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u184	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV, who has also initiated this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u185	Thank you. I'm gonna get on with my three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that a roof above your head is a primary need for life;]] [[considers that this should be given special attention to those who are old and vulnerable;]] [[noting that there are many reports, surveys and stakeholder input on the basis of this debate on the housing of the elderly, but that they contradict each other on the volume of construction to be developed for nursing homes, clustered homes for beginners and accessible homes for elderly people with physical age complaints;]] [[calls on the government to provide a clear, guiding view on the housing of older people for the short, medium and long term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema, Mr Nijboer, Mr Werner, Mr Den Haan and Mr Ellemeet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-572]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u186	The Chamber, heard the debate, believes that a roof above your head is a primary need for life; considers that this should be given special attention to those who are old and vulnerable; noting that there is a very large construction site for the elderly housing in the form of nursing homes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u187	I'm not okay. I'm gonna give you a chance to talk a little more quietly, because this is something. Take your time, Fleur.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u188	...noting that there is a very large construction assignment for the elderly housing in the form of nursing... I lost my whole voice! I can't do it anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u189	Do you want me to read the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u190	Oh, that's so nice!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u191	That's an exception. I've done that before. I'm gonna do that. I'll read you the motion. I'll take your sound off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u192	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u193	You're welcome, Mrs. Agema. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions that I'm going to read in peace. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that healthcare providers are required to obtain a market-based return on disposal of their real estate;]] [[Whereas this may lead to the disappearance of valuable real estate intended for care;]] [[Considers that with the imminent shortage of nursing homes and homes for older people, as much affordable real estate as possible should be maintained for care;]] [[calls on the Government to explore whether it is possible in the policy rule of alienating real estate from the College's reorganisation care institutions not to achieve a market-based return but to increase the social return of this property,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Werner.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-575]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u195	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still forced relocations of older people living in a (small-scale) care establishment;]] [[believes that older people should not be affected by the financial bottlenecks that hamper the construction and operation of small-scale forms of care;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the obstacles and financial risks that hinder the construction and maintenance of small-scale care homes and to come forward with proposals for Princess Day to resolve these bottlenecks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-576]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna talk real quick, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the care and support of many people is increasingly being used by carers;]] [[noting that many carers are overburdened and it can help if the person for whom they can be concerned uses accommodation or rest care so that people can stay at home for longer;]] [[noting that the results of both the pilots occasional accommodation and the pilots structural accommodation are very positive at the initiative of Mr Bergkamp and Mr Hermans;]] [[Whereas the social cost-benefit analysis linked to the pilots shows that structural accommodation can lead to savings in healthcare costs;]] [[calls on the Government to identify by the end of 2021 the status of accommodation facilities in the different regions of the Netherlands and then to come up with a plan to implement accommodation care in as many regions as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas each phase of life has a different need for living, well-being and care;]] [[Whereas municipalities have the task of housing their citizens in a good way;]] [[Considering that recommendations were already made in 2005 to develop a housing vision in view of demographic developments, which in 2016 only 45% of municipalities had a living vision, and that, in the current state of affairs, less than half of municipalities still have a living care vision;]] [[Whereas each municipality must have a vision of living, working, lifelong learning, care and well-being in order to anticipate the needs of its inhabitants;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage municipalities to draw up, together with relevant organisations with regard to, inter alia, care, welfare and education, an integrated housing vision by the end of 2021, including performance agreements with corporations and healthcare organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Van der Laan and Mr Tellegen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-577]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-578]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u197	I'm in the minus, but I still have one motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u198	I'm afraid you don't have time for that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u199	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u200	There will certainly be other debates and opportunities. I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u201	Thank you. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the shortage of nursing homes and clustered housing for older people in the short and longer term poses major problems;]] [[Whereas the administrative arrangements on housing and care last April set out the minimum number of elderly homes to be built in order to meet the growing need for housing and access to the financial framework for that construction;]] [[considers that the construction of nursing homes and clustered housing for the elderly should not be delayed further;]] [[points out that the formation should not constitute an obstacle to the implementation, including the financial framework conditions, of administrative arrangements and care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Nijboer, Mr Den Haan and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-579]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u202	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. Then I give the floor to Mrs Werner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u203	Mr President, I have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u204	It doesn't have to be on!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u205	No, but I wouldn't use the time either if I didn't have another question. My final question to the VWS Minister was about the estimates and that if they were tight, then vpt and mpt would be chosen. Of this, the Minister said: the organization of care is a greater problem than funding. However, he did not answer my question a bit, namely that these tight estimates, which had to be corrected every time by hundreds of million in recent years, lead to more vpt and mpt and less investment in building nursing homes. That's where I asked him to reflect. So that's what I'm doing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u206	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Werner of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are many plans to build for different target groups in the coming years;]] [[Whereas there is also construction for older people and it is important for older people to have certain facilities in the near vicinity;]] [[Whereas the presence of such facilities helps to reduce the speed of social isolation for older people;]] [[calls on the Minister to involve the point of departure of nearby facilities in the further development of construction plans and to discuss them with the field, such as housing corporations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that EUR 20 million from the housing promotion budget is available for the construction of common spaces;]] [[Whereas a care cooperative is a network of inhabitants in a village or district who manage assistance and care themselves, which reduces the speed of social isolation for the elderly;]] [[Whereas, in view of the increasing ageing population, there is an increasing need for independent living with care and support;]] [[calls on the Government to open up the subsidy scheme for the construction of common areas for the establishment of care cooperatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Werner, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Nijboer, Mr Hijink, Mr Den Haan, Mr Bikker, Mr Agema, Mr Tellegen and Mr Van der Laan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-580]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Werner, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Nijboer, Mr Den Haan, Mr Bikker, Mr Agema, Mr Tellegen and Mr Van der Laan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-581]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u208	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their comprehensive answers to the questions they have put. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many older people would like to move, but they cannot or cannot do so because of a much higher rent for a smaller space;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ensure financially that older people can move while maintaining their rent rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Ellemeet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-582]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u209	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion, in the hope that by the end of this year we will be farther on this important dossier. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that recent forecasts show that demographic trends in the Netherlands will lead to a significant shortage of suitable homes for seniors, clustered residential care and nursing homes until at least 2050;]] [[noting that there are several successful initiatives at local level combining living and caring, but that they are still not sufficiently followed up;]] [[Considering that in the residential care agreement it was agreed that by the end of 2021 all municipalities should have translated their residential care vision into concrete performance agreements;]] [[calls on the government to use specific knowledge and expertise in the area of senior housing within the Expert Teams Housing to support municipalities in translating residential care visions into concrete performance agreements and then to potential locations and further realisation of suitable homes for seniors, clustered residential care forms and nursing homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Tellegen and Mr Koerhuis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-583]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u210	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank both directors for their reply. What is urgently needed is to speed up the field of housing for the elderly and also to show vision. This applies not only to the present but also to the coming years. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion and that's the next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that it has been agreed that each municipality has a vision of residential care by mid 2021 and has concrete performance agreements by the end of 2021 that provide for independent living of the elderly and nursing care;]] [[Whereas a large part of the municipalities have not yet drawn up a vision of residential care but have no consequences for non-compliance;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Task Force can provide local authorities with support;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the additional (where necessary legal) instruments needed to reach the agreement on the housing vision and performance arrangements, to deploy these instruments and to inform the Court of Justice about this this this autumn,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Werner, Mr Van der Laan, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Hijink, Mr Den Haan, Mr Nijboer and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-584]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u211	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u212	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm just gonna take a look at the rulers. A few minutes? Well, five minutes. I'm suspending the meeting for about five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u213	I ask the Members to take their place again. Our deadline is to be ready by 11:00, and it's gonna work. I would like to ask the VWS Minister to give his appreciation of the motions tabled and then the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u214	Two questions and 13 motions for resolutions as a whole. You'd almost forget we're a cabinet in a deportationary state, chairman. I'll check the motions. The motion in part No. 572 I am going to advise against, because several notes and directional views have been given on the housing of the elderly. I do not think there is any need for further visions for the short, medium and long term, just a translation into agreements. So I'm going to dissuade this motion. Then the motion to part No. 575.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u215	There is a question about this appreciation by Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u216	I think that's really weird. On the one hand, the Minister commits himself to clarifying the figures and, on the other hand, he now says "unadvised, because there is so much already."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u217	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u218	I think that's crazy. I really do need one clear number. That could be a three-stage rocket of clustered, nursing home and zero-step homes, because anything can happen between those three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u219	Those numbers are there, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u220	Just call it one number. One number has to be produced in 15 years, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u221	Those numbers are there. They are also mentioned in the housing agreement that is in place. In that housing agreement there is also a lot of work that we will certainly be happy with for the next six months. In short, until there is a new cabinet, there is plenty of work. There is no lack of vision, that is not the point. By the way, we have already promised you in writing the basis of this numerical analysis. I shall now turn to one specific question. Of course, you'll get the numerical basis. Then the motion to part No. 575, because the motions on parts Nos. 573 and 574 are for Mr Ollongren, who asks the government to explore the possibility of the policy rule alienating real estate from the College rehabilitation care institutions et cetera. By the way, I think you mean college instead of colleague. Unless you have such a colleague, of course you can, but it is a strange name for a colleague. You wrote the motion yourself, so you know what you mean. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, because it is a sensible thought to do so. Then the motion to part No. 576. This is a motion by Mr Hijink and I am going to advise against it, because there is too much analysis in it that these forced relocations would have something to do with barriers or financial risks in construction. I don't think so. It's a lot more about outdated real estate. In addition, we are, of course, working on all the obstacles we have analysed. In my opinion, we should not make any more analyses here, but simply get to work on the things we have planned. So it's not advisable. Then the motion to part No. 577. That's a book, but it can also be a bit through the font. I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber, because it continues on the Bergkamp and Hermans initiative on accommodation care at the time. Here you say: take stock of the status of the possibilities and come up with a plan to implement them in as many regions as possible. I understand that very well, given the whole preliminaries. The motion in part No. 579 is a speech-outmotion and I found that a relief when I read it. So I'm not saying anything about that. Then there is Mrs Agema's specific question about the numbers: the 100,000 versus the 164 000. What about the difference between them? The number 100,000 comes from TNO's June 2020 report. Now there are 152,000 available and in 2040 251,000 are needed, so the difference is about 100,000. The number 164.000 comes from the 2019 TNO report. That was a first prognosis. 164.000 is 123.000 extra demand plus 41.000 replacement construction; this was indeed related to the replacement construction. The second report updated the forecast and took into account the unutilised capacity in 2018. Therefore, TNO's estimate is lower in 2020 than in the 2019 report. So I have clarified this piece of the underpinning of the numerical side of the residential care agreement. This is without prejudice to the demand and also to Mrs Agema's offer to write another letter about it in order to justify it properly. Maybe we'll be able to answer the questions just as well outside the broadcast, so that our letter also hits purpose. Then there is the reflection that Mrs Ellemeet has asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u222	Before you continue, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u223	The minister wrote earlier in letter 517 that the lower number comes from writing away part of those 164.000 under clustered homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u224	That doesn't ring a bell for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u225	I would like to make the proposal to this one as well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u226	I asked between the first and second terms to clarify where the difference between 164,000 and 100,000 came from. That's this. But I also promised, at the intercession of Mrs Bergkamp, the chairman, to come forward with a written explanation. Then we'll have to answer the questions very well outside the broadcast, so that the letter is about the questions you had. That would be so nice, for once. Then there is the reflection on Mrs Ellemeet's question: is it true that this choice of vpt and mpt is also motivated by repeated too narrow estimates? No, because that suggests that those estimates were too tight, given demographic developments. That's not true. The growth was far above demo. That's what was going on. That was kind of a crazy development, actually. By the way, of course, vpt is not necessarily a form of care that is given outside institutions, but also simply by the same care institutions that are also simply contracted within the Wlz. I think that is not so much the real explanation. There are, of course, many factors that play a role in this. For example, the growth above demo has to do with the attractiveness of nursing home care due to the increased quality, for example, has to do with movements of both municipalities and health insurance companies to coach patients towards the Wlz. That's undesirable, but it will happen. In addition, there are a thousand other developments that respond to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u227	This brings us to the end of the input of the VWS Minister. We're just gonna clean up real quick. I think that's so handsome: all eyes on you and yet so effective cleaning. Thanks to the messenger. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior for her appreciation of the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u228	Yes, of the other motions. The motion in part No. 573 calls on the government to organise central management of the housing of older people in the short, medium and long term. I just said something about that. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that it fits in with the direction I am now working on with the fellow governments, then I am prepared to leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 574 is a speech-exmotion. I'll skip it. The motion in part No. 578 by Mrs Den Haan asks for an integral living vision. That's what we're working on from the Task Force. We call it a residential care vision, Mrs Den Haan calls it a living vision in her motion, but I think the intention is the same: the connection of living, care and well-being. I'd like to give the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 580 by Mrs Werner c.s. calls on the Minister to involve the point of departure of nearby facilities in the further development of construction plans. This, too, is an incentive to include even more strongly in the discussions with Aedes and VNG, to ensure that it comes into the housing vision and to encourage the municipalities to look very closely at it and think about it. I'd like to give the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 581 calls on the Government to open up a subsidy scheme for the construction of common areas for the establishment of care cooperatives. I explained this in my first term. I said that care cooperatives could call on the scheme to use it for a common meeting area. For that reason, I'd like to pass judgment on to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 582 is a motion by Mr Nijboer. It's about the rent rights of the elderly. I just said something about that in my first term. The motion really goes a little further than we can achieve now. Nor do I see that there are legal restrictions for corporations to be able to decide for themselves what they do with the housing released. There really are possibilities, so I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u229	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Hijink, I think, about the motion on item No. 581.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u230	Yeah, about the motion in part No. 581. I am a little concerned that if care cooperatives were to use that money, it would be at the expense of other initiatives that actually offer clustered homes. Of course, it is not said that cooperatives actually offer clustered forms of housing. I take it this is not meant for cooperatives in a village who want a joint community center, paying for the 20 million. I wouldn't think that was the point. It must really benefit the building and exploitation of a common form of housing. Does the Minister agree with that interpretation? Or does she see it differently? That makes sense for my judgment and for the question of whether we vote in favour or against.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u231	The scheme is based on the fact that I have also discussed it with the Chamber: often there is a need to organise and implement forms of housing for older people living with each other. They live on their own, but together. The problem is often in the common room, so the funding didn't get around. That is what this regulation provides for. I believe that the question in the motion, which Mrs Werner also put in her term, is: if you are a healthcare cooperative that wants to achieve that, can you appeal to that arrangement? Then the answer is: yes, that is possible. I think we can agree on that. Mr. Chairman. I think I will then be at the motion for a resolution on item No. 583 by Mrs Tellegen and Mr Koerhuis, who requests that the Expert Teams in Housing Building provide specific expertise for senior residences. This is how we organized it. At the RVO a separate Support Team Living and Care has been established. That has the expertise that Mrs Tellegen was worried about. In addition, we have the Expert Teams Housing Building. I think we should make sure that we bring that expertise together. Where we seem to be lacking in the Expert Teams Housing Building, expertise may be complemented through the support teams. In any case, I understand the intention of the motion. I support them, and I'm happy to judge them. Finally, the motion in part No. 584 by Mrs Bikker, with a lot of other names underneath. It invites the government to examine what additional instruments would be needed and so on. I think that is in line with the agreements I made with the co-governments and the corporations, and with the reciprocity contained in those agreements. So I'd like to pass judgment on to the Chamber. Mr President, those were the other motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u232	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u233	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled. I would like to thank both directors. I thank the MPs and the viewers at home.
