ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	Just a few rules in advance. Of course, you have given up your speaking time, but the number of questions, comments and interruptions is limited to six in the budget per group. I'll hold you to that, too. Mrs. Leijten, your first? No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	I know you very well, Mr President, but I actually wanted to start the debate with a preliminary remark. We received a great many documents yesterday. Implementation of motions with reports, the handling of the Gemeentefonds. Actually, I'm not okay with that. The Ministry has a support from here to gunder. We don't have any of that. There are smaller and smaller groups. I do not think that within 24 hours before the budget procedure starts you can sneak so many pieces across the fence. As President, I would like to ask you to contact the directors, who belong to this too, and to make an official note that this is not the way things are going, and actually a bit of a false start to this budgetary treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	How do you say that so neatly? I will pass on the stenogram of this part of the meeting to the cabinet. Fortunately, we have someone who knows very well how that works; he looks at me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	All right, then we are going to start and Mr Bosma of the PVV will be the first to speak for his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	It's already written "rounding off," please.'. I think that's a little premature, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. A year ago I said to this Secretary of State: it will be the last time, I wish you good luck and prosperity for the future. This year I say exactly the same thing: it will be the last time and I wish you good luck and prosperity for the future for your both positions elsewhere, I shall say. We're 224 days after the election. We already forgot, but there were elections. Maybe we'll get another cabinet, but for now we have a kind of Heintje Davidskabinet. I would like to take this last opportunity to take a broader look at democracy, because that is what this ministry is ultimately about. It doesn't cheer me up, not even from what happened under this cabinet over the last four and a half years. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, a small group of people always gets their way. Politicologists have been looking at nearly 300 possible policy changes over the past 30 years. Possible policy changes, what are they? Those are ideas, those are proposals, those are things people say. Some ideas do not go beyond the bar of the local café or the newspaper's opinion page, but other ideas are actually being implemented and implemented. But the question is: what ideas are ultimately implemented? That's pretty simple. Those are the ideas that are supported by highly educated Netherlands, by academics. Their will is law. Do the low-educated get what they want? Yes, but only if they agree with those who are highly educated. I quote the researchers: "This conclusion has great consequences. If training groups were equally represented, the Netherlands would look very different. Social services would be expanded, the differences between rich and poor would be smaller, immigration would be reduced, crime would be punished more severely and European integration would be reduced." In short, the Netherlands would be a paradise. But unfortunately, the elite rule, the left-liberal elites. How does that work? Well, pretty simple. The institutions of the Netherlands, i.e. the media, universities, justice, civil service, but also museums, art, trade unions, churches, etc. are all in the hands of left-wing people, left-wing liberals. It's full of the GroenLinksers and D66'ers. The result: from above we are forced on all kinds of things that the Netherlands does not want at all, such as immigration, wind turbines, EU, diversity, insecurity, drugs, etc. Mr President, I don't know if you're a bit of a soccer fan, but he nods yes, and if you're familiar with Gary Lineker, who once played at the Spurs? He was once asked what football really is. He explained that pretty simply. He said, "Well, it's a sport between two teams of eleven people, and at the end Germany wins." Our democracy works about the same. Democracy is an activity for 17 million Dutch people and at the end it wins academic links. At the end, the left-liberal sect wins, with their diversity cult, climate socialism, woke and europhily. The sect is driven by folk fear, as René Cuperus calls it, by demophobic: fear of death for the people. The cult is also very intolerant. There is a tough professional ban against PVVs. The supporters of what has been the second or third party of the Netherlands since 2009 are allowed to pay taxes, but have to keep their mouths shut for the rest. More and more Dutch people are afraid to express their opinion. That is a characteristic of a dictatorship. Let us never forget, Mrs Ollongren, even suggested that the result of the election should not be recognised when the PVV comes to power and that Amsterdam should at that time separate itself from the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Why was that? Well, she said, when the PVV comes to power, there will be no civilization and no culture. So PVVs are people without civilization. What is the difference between animals and humans? Well, animals don't have civilization either, like PVVs. At the Hannie Schaftlezing, Ollongren compared PVV's to Nazis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	Just a moment, Mr. Bosma. To get it straight away clear: the custom here is that you, as President, know very well that we do not address directors by name but by their function. If you wish to do so in future, you will set a good example to all the other Members, including as a member of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	Your will is law, Mr. Chairman. While I really find its position on the non-recognition of the elections closer to the Nazis than any PVV position after the Nazi comparison. Under Minister Ollongren, our democracy has been further undermined. The referendum Van Mierlo dreamed of was abolished and destroyed by his own party. Dozens of municipalities have been demolished. The administration is therefore even further away from the citizens. Mayors are still unelected. The splinter party CDA is now at 4% in the polls and yet it holds 30% of the mayor's posts. We still have the First Chamber, where 75 senators together account for 319 side jobs. Under this minister, the ban on lobbying has been abolished which prevents former ministers from becoming active in their policy areas. Our sovereignty has drifted even further towards Brussels. Our Parliament has castrated itself through all these crazy agreements: social agreement, pension agreement, etc. We have the climate tables that only equal-minded people can talk to. They're mostly from GroenLinks. The State now coincides with the party. D66 Minister Van Engelshoven attacks a cartoonist when he depicts her party colleague Kaag negatively. The State thus protects the party interest. Mrs Kaag allowed her Kaagdocumentary officials to negotiate the D66 election spot. And screaming about Poland and crying about Hungary. The essence of totalitarianism is that the State carries out its ideology into the smallest corners of the daily lives of its citizens. For the first time in history, the State and all institutions in the Netherlands share the same ideologies, namely the sacred trinity of the left-wing church. One: the diversity cult. Two: climate-socialism. And three: europhilie. Everywhere, it's gonna knock us down the throat. Let's take a walk around the fields. One. Art is no longer autonomous, but must comply with diversity ideology. Only grant after signing three declarations of loyalty. Art institutions need to map the number of white people so that they can be phased out. Two. Our literature now knows sensitivity readers to delete words that scare people. Three. Our language is being modified. Words like "allochtoon" and "gay" become taboo. This also reminds us of George Orwell's 1984 book. Under NS director Van Boxtel, member of D66, it has been abolished that the conductor is broadcasting: ladies and gentlemen. Four. Museums lay our heroes from history along the diversity bar. For example, our children learn that Michiel de Ruyter fell off his pedestal. The man who risked his life for decades for us, for the States General, is now persona non grata. Museums abolish the term "Golden Age." Museums are semi-compulsory to hold slavery exhibitions, and of course never carried out by Muslims over centuries of slavery, dragging millions of whites to Arab countries. Five. History is changing. Whites and men, for example, disappear from the canon. Drees had to get out, 'cause white guy. Spinoza had to leave the philosophy canon, because white. This was also the case in the 1984 book. History is changing for the benefit of ideology. Six. Citizens need to change their eating habits. At KLM only vegetarian flies. By 2030, Amsterdammers' diet should be half plant-based. Snack bars must be closed. Stalinist left determines what we get on our plate. D66 now wants houses without a balcony and without a kitchen, which the workers in the GDR were so happy about. Seven. Our parties are ruined. The State wages an open war against Black Piet. As a result, the entire Santa Claus has now disappeared from public life. At the Vrije Universiteit, for example, Christmas has been replaced by the light party. Books with Black Piet in it are removed from libraries and burned. Under a D66 minister, we do book burning again. Eight. Rijkswaterstaat says that in its own organisation "traditional Dutch values are dominant, for example sobriety, punctuality or directness." Yeah, of course you can't do that anymore. Imagine a state water state that's either punctual or sober. If a bridge has to be repaired, you'd rather have someone who isn't punctual. What difference does it make 10 centimeters more or less? The University of Amsterdam believes that people should decolonize themselves. Rationality has been abolished. So we have to get rid of that, they say openly. This illustrates what the cult of diversity really is. Those who abolish rationality abolish science and thus universities. The intention is weakening, hollowing out the West. Each university now employs an army of diversity officers, political commissioners who watch over the party line. And 200 academics in England are already coming up with a petition: they need security during their lectures. Reason? The gender debate. Nine. Citizens are beaten in the face with gender ideology. Lego becomes gender neutral. The D66 Minister of Education believes that people in toy stores should no longer ask if it's for a boy or a girl. Meanwhile, a quarter of the 15-year-olds are pretty much illiterate. Here are the priorities of a dying civilization. Schools get the GenderDoebook from her. Remember, don't talk about male and female reproductive systems. Men and women no longer exist. Rather talk about "people with a penis" or "people with a uterus." Question: Would they do that in China, or would they just learn to read and calculate there? Ten. The war on humor. D66 Minister Van Engelshoven announces to talk to Johan Derksen, a journalist, because he makes a joke about gays that she doesn't like. Heaven-tormenting. The University of Groningen is researching humour. There's nothing to laugh about there anymore. Eleven. State broadcasting NPO66 delivers fake news. Information that emits poorly on the diversity cult remains under the hat. In the Marrakesh Treaty, our government promises that media will report positively on mass immigration. Question to this minister: what about her war against the fake news? We saw three pages of De Telegraaf, in which she characterizes fake news as the great danger to state security. In the debate in the Chamber, she was unable to provide examples. Her horn noises ended tragically with radio commercials explaining that not everything on the Internet is true. Gee, we didn't know that! Twelve. Justice has become political. Two Wilders Processes, launched in cooperation with Justice Ministers. What do you mean, separation of powers? He gets a trial, Pechtold doesn't, Samsom doesn't. He talks about Moroccans who have an ethnic monopoly on nuisances. It all makes sense: whoever challenges the cult will be demolished by the judge. See also the premium affair, in which the Council of State, led by D66'er Thom de Graaf, parachuted by Minister Ollongren, continues to snore joyfully, just like the judges. Consequences: 1,100 children placed out of the house. Those judges do wake up to talk left-liberal action groups to the mouth, such as Urgenda climate club, or in the war against Black Piet. The judges oppose the expulsion of criminal foreigners from the country. The police are politicized, as in dictatorships. They are busy with fortifications and visiting mosques. The National Police will take action to apprehend Richard de Mos, alderman of this city. "There's a criminal organization," they scream. As a result, the College of B and W falls. That's a big deal. Two years later, that has not been substantiated at all. It's an unbelievable disgrace. The National Police Department is under Minister Ollongren. Also look at the block frying. For months, they're being chased. Their group apps are being investigated by the police and DNA evidence is being taken from them. Their trial lasts four days, and they all have criminal records. Compare that to Extinction Rebellion. Spoiled white children of wealthy D66s. They're blocking too. But they're good, and so they support the elite. And so justice doesn't do anything. I call the Turks who blocked the Erasmus Bridge. They too are not put in the way of strawbreed. Fourteen. The civil service is also becoming more and more politicised. Here in The Hague they learn not to write "sir" or "ma'am" anymore, but "citymate." In Amsterdam not "homosexual" anymore, but "pink Amsterdammer." The municipality of Amsterdam wants all its 15,000 officials to take a privilege training course. In this way, staff must be aware of their privileged position. In the municipality of Amsterdam, where the left reigns, 30% of the high positions are reserved for non-whites. That's how left-wing groups turn against each other. Fifteen. Our bodies are nationalized. See the mandatory donorship. See the vaccination compulsion. Sixteen. The power of big tech. Facebook and Twitter determine what we can say. Journalists bring news about the cokehead Hunter Biden. Then that newspaper, the New York Post, is removed from Twitter. Next, D66 welcomes two votes in favour. And then the power of the big money. D66 receives a million euros from a tech billionaire and thus buys an election result. In Amsterdam, another D66 billionaire can buy a crucial real estate position on the expensive Zuidas for little money thanks to the city council. The fact that the man has donated a quarter of a million euros to D66 does not play any role, says the secretary of the Art Council, a former chamber member of D66. A professor rightly says: that Zuidas deal has the appearance of conflict of interest. Another billionaire, Soros, finances the war against Black Piet, so NRC Handelsblad reveals. Clubs he finances do not hesitate to commit violence, the AIVD reports. Soros also finances the violent Black Lives Matter. A whole circus has been rigged in the Netherlands by fake action groups funded by the State. Environmental defense gets 60% of its money from the government. Urgenda owes its existence to the Postal Code lottery, which is licensed by the same government. COC is a subdivision of the state, and so it's retracing the cult. Mr. Chairman. Our democracy is going badly and I fear that it will only be worse. Why? Well, that's because the three central values of our elites are basically totalitarian: the diversity cult and the europhily. But also climate socialism is totalitarian. Professor and climate activist Jan Rotmans sees democracy as subordinate to climate goals. He therefore also speaks openly of a "climate dictatorship." Actually, that makes sense, because the Dutch get a personal carbon budget one day, for example. How are you gonna check that out? The only way to do that is through a police state. The climate church gives us four more years to save the world. If you're in it like that, then also logically, democracy is nothing more than a stand-in-the-way, an obstacle to saving the planet. The VVD has finally converted into climate socialism during the General Reviews, so some resistance cannot be expected anymore. In the meantime, a whole class of diversity officers, climate coaches, diversity and inclusion consultants, wind turbine traders, transition advisors and change managers has emerged in the Netherlands, who earn millions by what they call "sustainable thinking." That group must be served and that group will be served. Christopher Lasch wrote it so beautifully: the cultural war is a form of class struggle, and so it is. Henk and Ingrid have to turn in all the time for our enlightened elites. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the former member of the Chamber of GroenLinks, Zihni Özdil, who said: "Their end goal? Let me put it bluntly: the complete cleansing of poor white people from the public life of the Netherlands." And so it is. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	There is an interruption by Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	I waited for the end of the confusing charge to hear, in addition to the glorification of China, whether there would be another substantive proposal from Mr Bosma. He's been standing here for about 15 years holding the same story with about the same examples. I miss the PVV solutions. It is about democracy, it is about democratic reform, and then it just doesn't come. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u10	That's because I don't have much time. I thought: it's the last time with Mrs Ollongren, I'm going to tell a broad story about how our democracy is being emasculated and what its causes are. I do not have time for solutions, but I am prepared to mention a number of things, which my group has been advocating for many years. Moreover, I do not understand where I argued for China in my speech, so I shall read back my own text. The most important thing to be done is, of course, the referendum. It is, of course, an incredible, godforsaken shame that D66, founded for more democracy... It is now more than 55 years since Hans van Mierlo advocated the referendum. Because if you want to break the power of the elites and if you agree with what I say, namely that the people in the Netherlands do not have enough to say, then you can only do one thing: follow what Hans van Mierlo said and introduce referendums. But yes, that has just been abolished by D66, the party that destroys its own principles. That's the first thing that has to happen, but I can also mention other things. There must be a lot more municipalities, ridiculous that Mrs Ollongren has abolished all those municipalities, elected mayors must be elected, Article 68 Constitution on the information position of Members of Parliament must be respected, local referendums must be established, we must go to a recall where citizens can simply say: we have enough of the cabinet, we want new elections, we must respect the Wob procedure very important, see the supplementing affair, we must be able to hear new rulers and it would be nice if we had fewer members. The construction of my party, with one member, is the most democratic. I can mention a few more, but here you have some.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u11	It is often bad-jacked and miscited ideas, but at least they are some kind of proposals, and I welcome them. I would like to correct one more: Hans van Mierlo would turn around in his grave if he heard what Mr Bosma is saying here. In fact, Hans van Mierlo said that some referenda cut his soul like a knife. If Mr Bosma really knew his classics, which he doesn't, he would know that. But why does he come here all the time, with no proposal of his own? There are parties here who come up with a proposal for a correct binding referendum and defend it here; I pointed to the SP. There are parties here that are much smaller than the far too many seats of the PVV that come up with concrete proposals. It is Mr Bosma who can only complain and never defend a proposal here because he never makes a proposal. Then he can repeat those complaints, but it is so incredibly cheap if there is never a constructive suggestion. A right of recall would be a fantastic initiative proposal. The only proposal that has been put forward in the area of democratisation, to remove the King from the government, has been on the table for ten years because the PVV is simply too lazy to do anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Bosma still?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u13	Well, I do know my classics. Hans van Mierlo wanted a referendum on the Betuwe Line. Hans van Mierlo wanted a referendum on the Maastricht Treaty, which was a crucial moment in European integration. And I remember the debate we had on abolishing the referendum. There Mr Jetten spoke, who was not yet a leader of the political groups. While he was saying "Hans van Mierlo didn't want a referendum at all," at about the same time the Newsuur programme sent out an election commercial from 1998, in which Hans van Mierlo looks into the camera and says, "And therefore" I will not try to imitate his Nijmegen tongue trap "we want a referendum." Hans van Mierlo wanted a referendum! The great founder of D66, Hans Gruijters, wanted the referendum. However, it is not surprising that all three founders of D66, Peter Baehr, Erik Visser, and Hans Gruijters, have abandoned their membership of D66, because the principles of D66 have been squandered by that party. D66 was not only for more democracy, it was also a party against immigration. Look at Turnpunt 72, the joint election programme of the Labour Party, D66 and the PPR: against immigration. Hans Gruijters said: all these foreigners bring in wrong habits. D66 didn't want anything from European integration. Hans Gruijters opposed a European army. These three things - more democracy, the fight against immigration, displeasure about European integration - have been squandered by D66. And which party adopted the D66 crown jewels? The PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u15	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u16	I call Mrs Rajkowski of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People expect governments to be accessible and accessible, that their personal data are safe and that the government is there when they need help. This means: good information management, good information security with cyber security programs that are in order, but also accessible communication and a reachable government. The Department of the Interior, in particular, must play a leading role within all departments, within the government, and can do so. Mr. Chairman. I start with information, cybersecurity and digitalization within the government. Our departments contain a lot of sensitive information from all of us. It would be a disaster if it were to lie on the street by means of a hack or an attack. A government that can no longer function. Our freedom of movement is based on safe digital processes. We need them throughout our lives, for example when we apply for a passport or when we get married. Good information security does require direction and direction. I would urge the Cabinet to take up this role even more. In the letters I often read words like "stimulant," but I would like to see it a little more compelling, not just stimulating and seducing. Just go through the departments, see what goes well and see what can be done better. Eventually you really do it together and the departments aren't celebrating their own party. Mr. Chairman. Too often, the General Court of Auditors still gives departments an insufficient level of information security. Given the commitment of both directors on this issue last year, I am sure that these people will and can do something about it. I would like a reaction from the cabinet: how can we take the next step? Mr. Chairman. In 2017 the Dutch parliament asked with the motion-De Vries cum suis to map and share with the Chamber delays in the field of information security. I'm asking the Cabinet to do that again. So mapping the delays in information security and its extension is also my request to include all government websites: do they comply with all security standards and protocols? I am considering tabling a motion on this subject, depending on the answer. Mr. Chairman. Cyber-weapon can also be increased by working well together internally. A good example of this is how our financial sector and banks work together within the Tiber programme. If you join this program, test together, simulate crisis situations and test with realistic online threats. Experiences and lessons from them are shared with the whole sector, so that benefits the whole sector. I know that the cabinet is working on some of these kinds of issues, but would like to ask it to investigate which parts of this particular method are applicable within the government. It has already been said in Europe that this Tiber method is working so well that it has become a kind of blueprint in Europe. I think we should adopt this blueprint in the Netherlands as well. I'm also considering a motion here, but I'm waiting for a response from the cabinet first. Mr. Chairman. The letter of 18 March this year states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has carried out an exploration of the possibilities for the vital digital public services or products and services of, among others, departments and market players. It has emerged from this exploration that there is a need for a generic framework for vital digital public services. That would be developed this year. What is the status of this framework? When can we expect it? Then I would like to comment on the ICT Review Advisory Committee, for some of us better known as the former BIT. This has been given the status of a formal advisory body. The decision to make it a formal advisory body not covered by AZ has already been taken. It's just not settled by law yet. I think that's important. When can we expect this bill? Mr. Chairman. Then my final point in digitalization. The General Court does not appoint sufficiently skilled ICT staff as one of the reasons why digitisation projects fail in the government and why information security is not in order. I would like to say two things about this. First of all... If you want to attract people from outside, don't set any vacancy requirements that can only be met by current officials who have been working with a specific system for ten years that is only used within the government. Secondly, the government should not be confused on talent... Actually I want to keep it in Dutch. The government shouldn't fight talent, I'll just call it that with the business community over IT personnel. In all kinds of organisations throughout the Netherlands, we need more IT staff, so I would say: do not compete with the business community, but perhaps work together on training, posting and attractive training programmes. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. My second topic concerns information management and accessible communication. The government is there for all of us and must also be accessible, understandable and just for all of us. That requires a little bit of the legislator, but also the performer. The Clamp report between desk and policy underlines the importance of legislation and regulation being enforceable for implementation organisations. It is important to assess whether legislative proposals in conjunction with existing laws and regulations do not have undesirable consequences for citizens. Therefore, an execution test should always be carried out. In addition, my group also thinks it would be a good idea to make greater use of legislative letters, i.e. letters which, for example, are often sent by SVB, DNB and AFM. This means, in concrete terms, that organisations often actively come up with letters in which they indicate what works for them and where they find complexity in their implementation. They indicate that not only when there is a proposal, but also throughout the year. Mr. Chairman. The government does not always have the information system in order. Following the results of the POK, the Open Action Plan was set up in order. This action plan sets out frameworks and quality requirements and sets out how departments should regulate information management along these lines. We are in favour of this action programme and we would like the Minister to get on with it. I'd like a response. In the end, we received a number of letters yesterday, so within 24 hours of the start of the debate. Mrs Leijten made a comment on this earlier. I was not too happy myself that we received a number of letters yesterday afternoon. However, I was pleased with the content of one of the letters, which was about the Government Commissioner for Information Services. I read that on the basis of progress reports, the Government Commissioner will encourage ministries in their approach and appeal to them for progress. So here's that point of stimulating, talking to each other. I'm gonna need a little firmer than that. If we really want to change the information system, as has been said, the Open Action Plan is not for nothing, it is important that such a government Commissioner should be able to go a little further than simply encourage it. That is why I would like to hear how far such a government commissioner can go when a department says: we are fine with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr. Faster, this is your third question out of six. I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u19	It's moving fast, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u21	How far could the government commissioner of the VVD go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u22	That's a good question. Of course, it's not entirely unexpected that that question comes when I make such a statement. I understand that the ministers are ultimately responsible for their own departments and for what is happening there. But if we appoint a government commissioner who may eventually find that something is not going well, but says "I can't do anything now," then that's where the trial ends. Then we're not gonna improve anything. If we want to avoid what has happened in the past, then the information system is very crucial. As far as I am concerned, therefore, such a government commissioner must also have opportunities to escalate. And one step higher: a minister may eventually need to be able to address another minister. If you can't get out of there, it's up to the Chamber. But as far as I'm concerned, it doesn't end when a government commissioner says this department doesn't want to cooperate. Because then nothing's gonna change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. It is the Home Office that must be a precursor to being a accessible and understandable government. This means that, in addition to achieving a good information system and having government communication monitored, the desk function is not going to disappear in this increasingly digital society. People should always be able to go to a desk, to any government organization, not only when they have questions or when something goes wrong, but also to remain accessible to people who are less digitally skilled and less linguistic. So there must always be an opportunity to speak to a person, on the phone or at the front desk. I would also like to receive a response to this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to zoom in on a number of local issues. Firstly, the forthcoming municipal elections. There is a note to the Council of State on a mandatory risk analysis for candidate aldermen prior to their appointment. This concerns a change to the legislative proposal Promote integrity and function decentralised governance. When can the Court expect this letter of amendment and is it expected that municipalities will have sufficient time to carry out these risk analyses before the upcoming municipal elections? Because after that, of course, all kinds of aldermen will take their place. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a more specific question about the municipal border correction between Heerhugowaard, Langedijk and Alkmaar. On 24 November the reclassification elections will take place in Langedijk and Heerhugowaard. Last year, this Chamber adopted by a large majority a motion by former colleague Snoeren. This motion called for a border correction for the two districts whose inhabitants have indicated that they prefer to belong to the municipality of Alkmaar. However, a poll of residents is needed to set this trajectory in motion. Can the Minister explain how she is going to shape this process? How does the Cabinet ensure that these residents are heard? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you. There is another interruption for you from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u26	Last week, at least the week before the autumn recess, we had the debate on the general affairs budget. The VVD didn't say anything about the governance culture and integrity of the board at the time. I would like to ask whether that can be dealt with today. How does the VVD view the core value integrity of the public administration, for which this minister is also responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mrs Leijten is asking a fair question. We received a letter yesterday about the state of play of a number of integrity codes and behaviours. I would like to say two things about that. One. It's always important to keep using your common sense, but integrity codes can certainly help with that. What I regret about part of the letter is that some things are left to the next cabinet. In fact, from this point on, I would like to encourage the cabinet to pick up a number of things that still have a p.m. in the letter. It cannot, of course, be the case that it is only at the moment when directors are standing on the border that integrity is being considered. I understand that in the end a new team will establish a number of codes of conduct. Then the new team can commit to that. But that doesn't mean that until then there's no way to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mrs. Leijten still?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u29	Actually, I think it's a little abstract. Let me just make it very specific. What does the VVD think about the fact that a ruler knows that she will be given a future lobbying role for a powerful sector such as the gas industry and can still be present at all budget discussions because the cabinet approves it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u30	You know, Mr President, at the moment we can talk about all kinds of rulers who are no longer directors. I would like to say two things about this: it is important that we use common sense and that we have clear codes of conduct. It is on this basis that we, the House of Representatives, can also enter into discussions with the ministers. First we need the code of conduct, but we can always use our common sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u31	But has common sense been used?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u32	You know, Mr President, the same question can be asked in seventy different ways and all the different names and folders can be removed, but these are the two things I want to say about this. As far as I am concerned, it is very important that clear agreements are made here. The letter sent yesterday deals with a number of issues, for example what the rules and codes of conduct are when directors are no longer directors. As far as I am concerned, this subject will be dealt with more quickly than at the next cabinet formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mrs Leijten, I would like to point out that this will be your fourth question of the six questions. It's up to you, but I want you to know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u34	Yes, but this is the largest party in this Parliament and one of the few parties that votes against when we say that the GRECO recommendations need to be properly implemented. That was voted on yesterday. That is why I think it is relevant to ask: where is this integrity with this VVD group? Let me put one more question on the basis of a concrete example. All the examples are from last summer, when that new governance culture had already been announced. It has already been said: no, we are really going to do things differently now, with radical ideas. At that time, this cabinet, in missionary status, decided that someone involved in the childcare allowance scandal and in the interrogation room is to be appointed top official of VWS. There has been an application procedure in which this would be the only suitable candidate. Doesn't the VVD Group also think that we as a whole as a government are in a hell of a bad position if someone who has been involved as a top man in the childcare allowance scandal, from which unprecedented injustice emerged and for which the cabinet has resigned, is still being appointed by the same outgoing cabinet as the highest civil servant in the U.S.A.S.? That's not a pore, I'd like to ask the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u35	What happened in the surcharge affair and especially with the people I have watched the documentary Only against the state is horrible and unacceptable. Actually, there are no words for it, because it will always be an understatement for the impact this has had on the people who have affected this. I can say to Mrs Leijten that integrity is not, as far as I am concerned, a missionary element. Integrity is something we need to discuss now. That is not something that we, as the House of Representatives, but I do not hope as a cabinet, will think about until the cabinet is on that burgundy and the picture is taken. That's already under consideration. I see that there are a number of things in the letter that was sent yesterday which make me think: I think that some steps can be taken already, I would like to say. I really want to urge the cabinet to do so, because I believe that integrity is a priority for all of us. However, in addition to common sense, clear agreements can make a real contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr. Van Baarle has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u37	We have seen that in this cabinet former executives have not complied with the government's own integrity rules, that blue book. Directors, without asking the Prime Minister's permission, have been applying to lobby companies for months at large in their own policy areas. As far as the DENK Group is concerned, that is a great shame. I repeat, a great shame. Now yesterday there was a motion for a vote for me and Mrs Leijten who asked for the following. Just make sure that in future this cannot happen by sanctioning this code of conduct for directors, by making it enforceable, so that directors have to respect the integrity rules, which are very basic. To my surprise, the VVD Group voted against it. I was wondering why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u38	You know, Mr President, I think the same question is repeated over and over again. I understand it's an important subject. I feel the same way myself. As I just pointed out, a subject like integrity isn't missionary. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also considers it important that the recommendations contained in the GRECO report be implemented and adopted. We saw in yesterday's letter that they are working on a number of subjects. On a number of subjects, the cabinet has indicated that it is something for the new team to sit down. I would like to say from here on, as far as I am concerned, the issue of integrity is not something for the new team. It is something on which this team can make some recommendations, so that at the moment there are new directors, there is clarity for them, but also for this House of Representatives about the following questions. What are the codes of conduct? What are the arrangements when you perform that post, but also when you decide to leave the post? Where are you going? Is there a cooling-off period? Et cetera. I'd like to give that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u39	This is a totally hypocritical and confusing story of the VVD, isn't it? One of GRECO's recommendations was correct: enter an integrity code for a cabinet that is enforceable. The VVD now says: follow those recommendations. But yesterday the VVD voted against the motion that wants to implement one of those recommendations. I sincerely ask the VVD: what signal do you send to the Netherlands? It is the VVD that stood at the cradle of something like the Participation Act, which severely punishes people in the country who make a small offense. Those people are just being punished like hell. The VVD now says, by voting against the motion of DENK and the SP, when committing an offence by the cabinet or a minister: well, they can get away with it, you don't have to sanction it. That's unfair, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u40	In the end, this House of Representatives or directors decides whether to behave properly or not. Integrity and moral values and agreements are something we debate with each other. You're gonna need common sense for that. I just said it, too. But you also need crystal clear appointments. Integrity and morality are something other than criminality. One can lead to another. We voted against the motion yesterday, but from here on I would like to ask the cabinet to speed up all the points in the recommendation report that have not yet been implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u41	Thank you. You know, don't you? After this, I won't repeat it, but this is the third of your six questions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u42	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because I do think it's important...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u43	No, no, that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u44	... to conclude this, because I find it so poignant. Because I find it so poignant that the VVD as one of the groups that was always tough when it came to combating fraud among normal people in the Netherlands, which has put people in total misery, with huge fines for minor offences, and now they say here to administrators: ah, they do not have to abide by the rules; that is for the House of Representatives to judge. I conclude that the VVD is simply hard on the people in the country, but soft on its own leaders. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u45	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is confusing a number of things here. Integrity is not the same as criminality, nor is it the same as fraud. So I would like to throw these words far from me in that regard. I said what I said. I can repeat that in four hundred ways, but this is the position of the VVD. We would like to ask the cabinet to make haste with the implementation of the GRECO recommendations; not only when a new cabinet is in place, but already now, because thinking cannot begin until a new team is on the platform.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u46	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten from the Socialist Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. Last night, a hearing with PwC took place here in the Lower House. They've done an investigation into where that memo Palmen stayed. And what does it turn out to be? After nine months of research, it's still not up the table. And it didn't come up at the interrogation committee either. We are dealing here with a ministry that not only does not have its housekeeping in order, because that was the argument all the time, but that just deliberately keeps covering things up. I ask the Minister of the Interior, who is responsible for the integrity policy of the government, what she thinks of this. And I'm also asking her what PwC's investigation cost. When it comes to the government, it's supposed to be close to people, look at people, and be human. Those all sound like incredibly empty words when you look at the supplemental scandal. That wasn't close to people; it was computer-controlled algorithms that took people out and turned them into fraud. And in solving the big mistakes that have been made, the government fails over and over again. I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State to consider this matter. How is it possible to throw people so deep into misery, and then make it so hard to fix it? Why did the cabinet fail last week, when it became clear that 1,115 children were removed from home, of which there are still about 400, in relation to that surcharge scandal, to arrive at a decent cabinet response? Look, I would very much like to talk about the integrity of local government, which we have said is that there is a need for a resilience scan. That's what the government's working on. We say: that resilience scan should also be done for the national government, to counter the network corruption, to get a picture of whether there are unhealthy networks that create that corruption. But the whole time, of course, the bone of the supplement scandal is in everyone's throat, but certainly also in society. For what do we ask the cabinet when we say: there must be a commissioner of the household... What are we asking? Are they taking it seriously? Do they take it seriously if the Chamber simply asks: where did that memo-Palms go? That is the debate on 19 January. They'll know on 21 January at the Ministry, and then there'll still have to be nine months of investigation, by PwC, over. What conversation are we having? How does the Minister view this? I would like to talk about democracy, about representation, about people having the idea that they have a grip on our country, on their congregation. But when I look at how often people, elected to the municipal council or elected here in the Lower House, run into the double democratic deficit due to those 1,200 undemocratic partnerships, then the courage of course falls into your pocket. When I spoke to the Minister in one of my first debates about these undemocratic partnerships, I tabled a motion. But there is no beginning of an answer to how that motion is being carried out. The question of how to shape local government, a motion tabled by Van Raak and Van der Molen a year ago, was answered yesterday, less than 24 hours before the debate. Answers to questions from this Chamber whether our congregations are getting enough money to carry out the tasks that have flown over the fence well, we are getting almost 12 hours before the debate! Does the government even take it seriously? That new distribution of the Gemeentefonds... I believe there are three people in the Netherlands who understand that Gemeentefonds, and then I might be on the spacious side. The Municipal Fund is being re-examined. This is, therefore, once again the distribution of poverty, but the worst thing is that the poorest municipalities with the greatest problems get the least. And then we're talking about the government close by. A motion has been passed by the same gentlemen Van Raak and Van der Molen. I like to say it, because they have worked well together over the past few years, I see. They have said that there should always be personal contact with the government. That was in the treatment of the Digital Government Act. There were task forces and courses at the library. You know, that library has just been cut off, because nowadays municipalities have to choose between home care, library, pool or income support for people. They no longer have any democratic choices to make. They have to put the budget in order all the time, because this government is failing to enable municipalities to carry out their tasks properly. How does the Minister and the Secretary of State view that? It's incredible, isn't it? The government close, the government with the human measure is driven by this policy completely in the wheels. If you want to be able to arrange things close by, if you want to have a human size, you have to make sure that the UWV doesn't talk about "clients" anymore and that municipalities don't say: download a form that you have to send in before you can make an appointment. That's the kind of thing you have to pry all the way out of, of course. But we also need to ensure that municipalities have sufficient time and money for the tasks that we have them to carry out and that the local parliament can deal with them without being forced to opt for the pool or for the transport of children to school. That's what happens in this country. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday there was another scandalous chapter in the supplement scandal. We've seen the Venice Commission. We're definitely gonna talk about that, I hope. Yesterday, Amnesty International complained to the UN about the intrinsic racist algorithms applied by the Tax Administration, which are also criminalising and discriminatory in class. Poor people punish you harder. That is what we were talking about just now, when Mr Van Baarle asked whether an error of a ruler should be punished. No, we'll look away. Then we'll condone it. Someone means well, don't they? But if you make a mistake in applying for your supplement, or if you do not apply enough if you have a benefit, or if you earn a penny too much, or if you have an indwelling child that earns too much, you will be punished financially in this country, and very often on the basis of algorithms. The government reacted immediately to that report yesterday, but it was a global response. Can she go point by point on that report? It contains seven recommendations. Can she respond to those seven recommendations? Mr. Chairman. I would like to make two more points. The last thing is that we see that there is less democracy possible because of how we facilitate the municipalities and organise things. We also know that there is little transparency and that the Ruttedoctrine has slipped everywhere. Then you'd better be a whistleblower. You expect to be supported, because you're gonna be in trouble. Well, that's not good. We have now been given an implementing law for the whistleblowers directive. Many groups have responded to this. It's called the written round. I don't think anyone wants him. I ask the Minister if she would be wise enough to tell the European Commission that she is going to adopt this law, that she will implement it later, and that she will implement it properly, with the evaluation of the House for Whistleblowers, so that we can take good care of our whistleblowers in this country. Finally, Mr President. Honesty and openness: that starts at the top. I told the Prime Minister two weeks ago. I now ask the Minister for the Interior what she thinks of two high-ranking politicians having a paper that says "Pieter Ommzigt: function elsewhere," which leads to a lot of fuss, which also makes sense because it is quite threatening that there is talk of people who are not there by themselves by powerful people, but that there has never been a fair answer to it. What does she think that is still unclear as to why it was written? The moment we say that there is a new governance culture where we move towards transparency, I think you should give an explanation for this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you very much. I call Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u49	It's a nice combination. 24 minutes to go and, oh, no more rounding up. Call it a quickie, 24 minutes! It is inevitable that a country will face a crisis once in a while. No matter how well organized, no state will be spared this at all. A very bad season for harvest due to dramatic drought or huge rainfall, earthquakes or a new virus. These are just natural phenomena, and they happen. And so we must ensure that we take them as well as possible and that we deal with the consequences of this disaster as best we can. Because as Amartya Sen, Indian economist and Nobel laureate wrote, "A famine is not a lack of food at first, but a lack of democracy, because if signals about the needs of people cannot freely flow to the centers of power, then disaster becomes a real crisis." One could say that after the supplementing affair it is no longer necessary to stress the importance of a functioning democracy, but yet the passage that is so pontifical at the beginning of the policy agenda in the budget we are discussing today may seem rather abstract. I quote: "We ensure continuity and quality in the design of our decentralised public administration. Democratic legitimacy and ability to act are important values in our system, which we will continue to protect in 2022." Beautiful, formal words, but I hear people thinking: can you eat that, what do I buy for it? And if you advocate this, you get reactions like: democratisation, do you really want to talk about it right now, because we are in the middle of a health crisis? Or, "Transparency, you say? Yes, an important principle but not really a bread-and-butterissue, huh." My answer is: yes, that's bread and butter, more importantly, that's often a matter of life and death. Because it's much worse. Sometimes we are not only ill-prepared for a crisis and our crisis management is moderate, let us call it failure of the first order, but then we do not learn from our mistakes, recognize or recognize the symptoms of it and do not tackle the causes. And that failure of the second order may be even worse and will almost certainly make us more and more confronted with the consequences. Do we continue to emit CO "like there is no tomorrow" while the consequences of the climate crisis scream in our face? Are we going to keep dealing with animals in the same bizarre way while the zoonoses are flying around our ears? In other words: do we learn the right lessons and have the ability and the courage to do something with them? Because of course this is not about natural phenomena that we have no influence on and that come as a kind of deus ex machina to confuse our storyline. No, we do some of them ourselves, and so we can do something about it. We're not doing enough right now. I am convinced that this starts with the quality of our democratic rule of law. So we have to say we mean the broad "we," so Cabinet, both Chambers, advisory bodies, local, provincial, everyone improve and deepen our democracy. How? By focusing on good democratic governance with checks-and-balances and transparency as a leading motive. Mr. Chairman. A few years ago, I said in the estimation of the need for better support for Members of Parliament that it is such a pity that this plea for stronger democracy often comes only to the farewell interviews. I said that it seemed a taboo for active MPs to speak out on this issue. I now feel the same way about some parts of our democratic culture. Yesterday, Bart Snels' letter was read here. He wrote about the destructive politics that prevailed. And Ron Fresen complained in an interview about his announced farewell about our debates, where it's just: chatter, boom boom! And: you lie, you cheat, it's a disgrace, it's a blunder and you have to leave. My belief is that we need more types like Bart Snels in the Chamber. I'm failing others. I'm sorry, Michiel van Nispen, if you're listening, but there are very few. I realize very well that for MPs there are only 24 hours in a day. And you can only bet once every hour. The work is never finished. Work pressure's high. And you just need different types of MPs in a room. But I have seen Mr Snels at work closely in recent years, and I would therefore like to say a little bit more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u50	I think it's a good thing that we're all talking about how we're having debates. But I also find it very easy to put it on the same footing. For example, in the summer of 2020, the discriminatory risk models of Supplements were removed. It has been decided this spring that these risk models are "unreparable" and will no longer be used again. How does Mr Sneller feel that we still do not know what went wrong there and that we have still not been informed about it? Doesn't that also mean that you, as a MP, sometimes just go so far out of your record, literally and figuratively, because you just don't get the information you've been asking for so many times? How does he feel about that? How does he feel about that mirror of what can sometimes go terribly wrong in a debate here, because I totally agree with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u51	No, I know the specific...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u52	Were you ready, Mrs. Leijten? I call Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u53	I don't know the specific example. I wasn't a spokesperson on that. But I understand the general point very well, and I am going to say a little more about it in a moment. In previous debates I also told Mr Leijten that I think we should support each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u54	Yeah, and then we support each other. Because that is absolutely what has happened, and it is happening in a lot of situations. That is why I believe that we are very often working together as a Chamber. I think we can say the same. Then a motion was passed with 150-0. And then the government ignores it, knowing that the ultimate consequence is not drawn. Oh, I'm running into that. Last year around this time, for example, we adopted motions on speeding up the parents' compensation process. That's what Van Huffelen's only about to think about right now. That's really weird. You know what? Every time we talk about that... What's D66 say? Sometimes we support each other, pull together and say as a chamber: now we keep our backs straight. But if the government thinks "well, we're gonna waltz over it" or "we're not gonna hear that" or "oh, we're just not gonna make that motion," then there's never gonna be any consequences. Then what do we do with the power of parliament in such situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u55	'Never consequences' goes a bit far, but in fact Mrs Leijten's search and frustration are also my frustration. We stood here the week before the recess debating with the Prime Minister a motion that is not being carried out. Then I said in the second term, and I am still considering it, that it is then up to the Chamber to decide what political consequences that will have. The frustration, which I also experience with my colleague, Mr Leijten, is that it is either to lay down or to send you away with your feet hanging. We should have more in between. That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u56	The House of Representatives is on earth to control the government. That's our core business; that's what we do. Mr Sneller is using his term, he has that freedom, he should speak to Members of Parliament and to say 'the Chamber this and the Chamber that', but that is not why we are here together today. Let's just take a look at Home Office and D66. In the King's budget, Mr Sneller celebrated the 55th anniversary of his party. His party was founded for democratic renewal...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u57	He wasn't there, but he was listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr. Faster, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u59	I listened with great interest. I always listen when Mr Sneller speaks. If you look at 55 years of D66 in the field of administrative innovation, there has actually been very little, really bitterly little of the ideals of D66. The district system doesn't, democratic innovations don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u60	Then why don't you just sit in the hall?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr. Faster, don't you want to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mr President, it is like the Albert Cuyp market here. It's like some fish bitch is barking through me. Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u63	Tss.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u64	Homeland and D66, which exists for 55 years and one week. Congratulations. D66 was established for democratic renewal. And D66 has ruled at many times: Cabinet-Den Uyl, twice Purple, and Mr. Pechtold has been Minister of Administrative Renewal. Now we have Mrs. Ollongren on Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u65	Would you like to ask your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u66	If Mr Sneller can perhaps stop commenting on MPs for a moment and if he just looks at this cabinet and his own party, what is his conclusion on the administrative renewal and democratic renewal that D66 has produced?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Bosma can wait until I get to that point. I just waited with him until the end, and then there was no proposal at all. I will come up with a number of proposals in a moment. I am very positive about the legislative machinery on Home Affairs as a result of, for example, the Remkes State Commission. I am very pleased that a reform of the electoral system has just been sent to the Council of State. I am also pleased that a revision of the constitutional amendment procedure has begun in order to do so in a united session. I am pleased that a change in the electoral system for the First Chamber has begun. And I'm glad we're going to get a return right for the First Chamber hopefully and that's where that legislation has been worked on. I haven't seen so much ambition in the last ten years. I do not think that I have allowed the namesakes of 'the nights' to be mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u68	That's very poor, isn't it? What did Jan Schaefer say again: you can't live in bullshit? I don't hear anything concrete. There are ambitions. Things have been sent to the Council of State. 55 years D66! A party was set up, with the main point not the socio-economic issues, not abortion or whatever. No, D66 was founded with democratic renewal as its main point. We're taking stock now, after 55 years and one week of D66. We see Mrs Ollongren again, who has actually produced nothing. She destroyed the referendum. She's destroyed 30 municipalities. And there's something about the second term of a constitutional change at the United Assembly. Let me put it right. In concrete terms, 55 years of D66 have produced nothing, but nothing, substantial in terms of administrative renewal. You'll agree with me, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u69	I think D66 provides a solution to the issue of content representation, for example, where Mr Bosma only complains. You're gonna have to get support for that. If you don't even come up with solutions and proposals at all, you're sure nothing's ever gonna happen. That is exactly what is happening with Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u70	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about Mr Snels and said that I have seen him work closely in recent years. That raised questions for me, and I will now name them. Why would you work invisiblely for years on an initiative bill and then be criticised for the concessions you made to take the feasible steps forward? Why would you work to be practically silenced by the media when you successfully defended that bill after nine years of squads of your group and your predecessors in that field in the Senate, while the one who just criticizes and lists what is wrong often gets a stage without critical questions? Why should you spend years as rapporteur on all kinds of spending areas that almost no one outside The Hague ever hears about and many within The Hague wonder if you have anything better to do than that corvee? Why should you participate in periodic consultations with the General Court of Auditors, actively participate in application committees for a High College of State, or become a member of a preparatory group for carrying out a motion that is, in any case, someone else's? Why would you do that if you're actually supposed to be visible and score points on behalf of your party? Or if you think the first job of a congressman is to get re-elected? Then you must find it very important yourself and feel a co-responsibility for the whole. And then you have to be able to keep it up. But maybe there's another way. To go back to Ron Fresen: he also talked about journalists who tend to go along with the chatter, boom boom, ah a clash; exciting! And isn't the saying: everything you pay attention to grows? I sometimes wonder which of the two theories is closer to the truth. Each parliament gets the parliamentary journalism it deserves or every parliamentary journalism gets the parliament it deserves? I don't know yet. Mr. Chairman. These examples all touch on the term "new administrative culture." He's fallen again and it's sprinkled like a pepper nut. At some point you've heard him so many times and it's often confessed with the mouth, that he already seems to be a fact. I also see really positive developments, but it is not yet the case. It's gonna be long and hard work. Take, for example, our learning capacity as a government, as a democratic government. In recent years, Bart Snels and I, for example, have been rapporteur for the state-wide operation Insight in quality. That was exactly what he had in mind to increase that power. And it is true that the necessary steps have been taken, but the laws of political gravity have not yet come to an end. And so there remains a task for all concerned. Directors should show less hasty heaviness and more vulnerability. Officials should more often suppress the tendency to keep their driver out of the wind. And MPs could count to ten more often. I do not know if that counts as slow politicians, but they should also let their constructive side speak a little more often. The big question is, of course, whether culture will change sufficiently if we leave the structure, the rules of the game of our democracy and the establishment of internal governance to the old. Of course, we could try, but I wouldn't recommend it. It wouldn't be my preference. Therefore I am, were we and remain for a better separation and division of powers. Give people a vote for the executive and a vote for the control of power. Reform the electoral system so that the link between voters and elected representatives becomes stronger. Finally allow constitutional review and finally introduce a binding corrective referendum. But there is also work to be done in addition to these major interventions. I can hardly keep up with the pile of reports and opinions, from the National Convention to the Venice Commission, from the State Committee on Parliamentary System to GRECO and a lot in between. But the common thread in all these reports is clear: our democracy is lagging behind in maintenance and the symptoms are becoming more and more common. All that touches on that good governance, important in all its facets. Good governance requires control of power. It is not a rocket science to conclude that more checks-and-balances can also be difficult. 'Cause sometimes we're just so good at it, just so good on our way with our proposal. Do we want to just walk down the path that we once entered? Also think of the space shuttle accident, the Challenger in '86. Prior to that, technicians had expressed their doubts. They wanted to postpone the launch, after all it had frozen. But NASA wanted to move on, because the momentum was now. We know the consequences, they were catastrophic. In other words, so do I ask the Minister, how can we prevent valuable advice from being ignored, as three High Colleges of State recently pointed out in the NRC? Should we not further broaden and strengthen the front line of those who provide us with a well-founded contradiction? NGOs such as the Sustainable Finance Lab in the Finance Committee, the Consumers' Association, Transparency International in this committee and Bits of Freedom, for example, offer important counterpower. For collusion and contradiction in developing countries, we subsidise NGOs there and for investigative journalism in the Netherlands, through the fund for the Journalist Party, we make money available without political interference, because we think this is important for our democracy. Is the Minister prepared to examine the possibilities of supporting Dutch NGOs at an appropriate distance from politics, of course, financially so that they are also better equipped to keep and inform government and parliament? Mr. Chairman. To make things even more complex, I would also like to put the lesson of the giantosaur in addition to the Challenger's lesson. For the people without small children or grandchildren, I should like to explain this. It is a children's book in which four small dinosaurs are playing, but there is also a giantosaur, a very large dinosaur. Those four little dinosaurs are going to play, but one of them is going to be on the lookout. After having stood on a stone for a few seconds, he says, "Beware, beware, hide quickly, he is coming, the giantosaurus!" The dinosaurs playing were drifting away. Then Daantje says: "Ha ha, it was just a joke!" He thought it was a very successful joke himself, and so he repeats it a few times. And every time it turns out to be a false alarm. You can already feel it coming: the one time his friends don't believe him when he warns, but then the giantosaurus comes of course. Mr. Chairman. These days, like all colleagues, I think I am getting reports from people who have discovered and warned 'the next premium affair' on a weekly basis, or 'the end of the rule of law'. My question is this: how do we estimate the value of these warnings? How do we ensure that we do not ignore the proper warning? Or, for the Franciscans among us, how do we give ourselves the insight to see the difference between the two? I'd like to hear a reflection from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. For control of power, transparency is necessary, but the importance of transparency for the democratic rule of law is broader and lies in quoting PvdA senator Koole in the Senate when dealing with the Woo, "that a citizen should be well informed so that he can obtain his rights and make informed choices in life on the public issue." I liked that phrase. In this respect, I see positive movements: the active disclosure of decision notes and the agenda of the Council of Ministers following the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance, and the Open Government Act, which has been adopted by a broad majority, which is going to enforce even more active disclosure and which can force attention to the organisation of the information system. Yesterday, not all political groups, but by majority, the Chamber agreed that directors should now make their business and financial interests public. Nice steps. I'm glad, but we're not there yet. I would like to mention three other points. The agendas of heads of government should be made more accessible with the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has promised to raise it in the inaugural debate, or to ensure that it is raised there if he is not there. But I ask this Minister: shouldn't there be rules? I think we're gonna have to get rid of the non-committal. And this non-committality must also be removed from the regulation of the lobby. As a result of the letter we received yesterday, I was pleased to hear what my colleague Mr VVD said about this: what support does the Minister still need from the Chamber to blow away the argument 'yes, but demissionary'? If motions are needed, I realize that Mrs Rajkowski is not a spokesperson on this subject, or things that we as a Chamber can do together in order to make it enforceable, not necessarily criminal law, then I would be happy to see with everyone, including those who tabled the motion yesterday, with what more concrete message we can send the cabinet on the road. Mr Dassen's motion for a resolution which called for this has apparently not been enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u72	At the time, we held the motion to make some changes to it. We want to retable it because we believe that the cabinet needs a little more encouragement. It would be nice if D66, in the form of Mr Sneller, would also support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u73	I think so. I think I would have advised the group on plus. What that motion says in my memory is: follow all sixteen recommendations. If it's more specific, let's look at it together. I have the feeling that different things are understood by different people, and then the Minister apparently does not have enough guidance to be able to get to work in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u74	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u75	Transparency can also be improved in the case-law. Now about 10% of the judgments are published. Publication of judgments is of great importance for controllability and thus confidence in justice. See also the statements of the President of the Council on the case-law on this in the reflections. That is why I ask the Minister what she thinks of a legal obligation to publish all judgments in principle. Mr. Chairman. So there is still the need to make our governance more transparent. When dealing with the WOO in the Senate, you will learn what if you sit there for a whole day, a motion was tabled by the Nanninga Group in order to attach a specific quantitative objective to this. The Minister advised against that motion because of the specific measuring bar that had been chosen. I understand that, but I did find the thought behind it a very nice one. I would like to hear whether the Minister has already come up with an alternative effect that is workable to formulate such a quantitative objective. I think it is a broad ambition and a wish of this Chamber, and I have seen that it is so in the Senate. Mr. Chairman. Good governance also involves proper implementation and putting people at the centre of it. We, as the Chambers' Committee, are about to finally speak to the former members of the Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations. But fortunately some of the lessons from the report are already being put into practice. I have seen the first bottlenecks letters coming through, and the knowledge agenda of several committees explicitly focuses on following up on the recommendations to engage in more dialogue as a Chamber with these implementation organisations. Investment in implementation has also increased and needs to be further increased. This will also take a long time to ensure that, in the event of a subsequent economic setback, the execution is not again the child of the account. Ultimately, however, we need to ensure sufficient capacity and quality to deliver on the promise of implementation with a human dimension in practice. Mr. Chairman. For Dutch people abroad, there is nowadays a central window of more than ten implementation organisations that is always open, online and telephone; no longer from the cabinet to the wall, but one easily accessible window. I heard such enthusiastic reports about how it works in practice, that I thought: Dutch people in the Netherlands deserve that too. That is why I ask the Minister: now that the wheel seems to have been invented, can we take care of that here too? After all, such a central window with very wide opening hours can be very valuable for everyone. I'm coming to the end of my speech, Mr. Chairman. I would like a little blessing on the municipalities, because that is where all aspects of good governance come together. They are of great value for control and distribution of power and counterpower and also when it comes to learning from each other, but it is not always possible to make that control and execution effective. That is bad, because municipalities are at the heart of democracy. If democracy isn't decent there, then we're a long way from home. Often municipalities can regulate things faster and more effectively than they seem; they are closer to the people and can innovate more easily. Therefore, D66 is in favour of robust municipalities with many tasks and powers. Especially with these tasks, it's okay. Fortunately, the distress calls from local government about the finances have arrived loud and clear on this side. For next year, much more money has been made available to municipalities, but the financial relationship between Rijk and municipalities remains very distorted. That is why I have three questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u76	Shall we first listen to Mrs Bromet's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u77	Perhaps they are the same questions, because I am also going to ask the Minister a question on this subject. I very much agree with Mr Sneller's argument that municipalities are the heart of our democracy, close to the citizen, and that they should be supported in it. At the same time, they have too little money to live up to what they should actually do. What does Mr Snelter think about the fact that the Empire has now unilaterally denounced the staircase-on-strap-afsystematiek and what will this do with the trust of the municipalities in the Empire?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u78	The latter lets itself be guessed. First of all, I think that's pretty ugly myself. That's my short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u79	Okay. Then we'll find out what the minister thinks later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u80	I won't count this for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u81	What a famous coulance!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u82	Yes, that is a weak moment, but don't count on anything else!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u83	The question raised by Mr Bromet was indeed raised here, in response to another part of the Council of Europe's opinion which made recommendations on the state of our decentralised system. This was about, among other things, increasing the municipal tax area and the stair-on-strap-afsystematiek. By the way, that system isn't blissful. I am also really in favour of reform, but that is different from saying one-sidedly: it doesn't count here. My question to the Minister is therefore: can she respond to the Council of Europe's recommendations? I understand that I missed a letter from yesterday, which I have to read first, about the redistribution of the Municipal Fund, but perhaps we can talk a little more about tomorrow evening's criticism of the next step in this rather endless process. The Code of Interadministrative Relations, Article 7, says that the Minister of BZK together with the Minister of General Affairs, and that affects the informers will ask the local authorities to consult as well. I haven't seen them come by in the press releases yet, but I assume the letter is in the mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mr. Bosma has another interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u85	At one point D66 had a chairman who went to a conference to sing "In the moonlight, in the moonlight," a children's song. Today, Mr. Sneller is presenting a children's story. I note that D66 is becoming a bit synonymous with the infantilisation of Dutch politics, but that is allowed. I thought Mr Sneller would come up with all nice proposals, but then it is about an agenda, about all marginal things. I have just said that D66 has not achieved anything in 55 years and a week in the area of political renewal. However, I have to correct that a little bit, because D66 has managed to do something, namely to demolish the referendum, that beautiful referendum, Hans van Mierlo's dream. Mrs. Ollongren was in office less than a week ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u86	Minister Ollongren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u87	She tore it down. Mr Sneller says here: democracy is in need of late maintenance. We had such a nice referendum. D66 tore it down. Can Mr Sneller say one more time what was wrong with the referendum? 'Cause we never found out. Why did D66 do everything to destroy it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u88	D66 has been working for nine years to see it happen, Mr Bosma not a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u89	Huh? It was just a D66 minister who abolished it, wasn't it? It was a minister of D66 who said it must be broken and sent a statement of explanation as large as the back of a stamp to the Chamber because she had no arguments. D66, through Mr Jetten, Mr Sneller's current group leader, fought against that referendum and a whole parliamentary debate against the referendum. D66 just demolished the consultative referendum, didn't it? Don't walk away from the things you've destroyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr Bosma has just been sitting here for nine years when the D66 Group, together with the PvdA and GroenLinks, has been working to bring about the consultative referendum and the remedially binding referendum at all. Mr Jetten said very clearly in this Chamber: this is a concession that hurts me. I was a policy officer on this subject and I was in trade-K during the course of the discussion. So it hurt me, too. But it's part of government. The only time Mr Bosma has ever been near power was with the agreement of tolerance. In the agreement he signed, the word democracy was not even mentioned. So when it comes down to it, we know what's in Mr Bosma's good hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u91	I've just had a look at the D66 election program. In the area of Home Affairs, it states, among other things, that D66 is fighting against all forms of discrimination and tearing down the walls that divide us. I am therefore surprised to hear Mr Sneller say nothing about the state of medical apartheid that is now being created between vaccinees and non-vaccines. Would he mind shining his light on that one?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u92	No, I leave that to my colleague Jan Paternotte, whom I think Mr Van Meijeren can find in most of the corona debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr Sneller will not get away with this easily. Today we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. The main task of the Minister for the Interior is to guarantee our fundamental rights. There is no better place to talk about the decline of our fundamental rights than here, today, in this debate. Therefore, again the question of whether on behalf of D66 you can shine your light on the state of medical apartheid created between non-vaccines and vaccinees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u94	Fundamental rights safeguards have simply been part of the discussion of the legislative proposal and, unfortunately, they will soon be extended, in which the restriction of fundamental rights will have to be argued and discussed in detail. But the general reflections of Mr Van Meijeren must be recorded with someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr. Van Meijeren. That's your third interruption, isn't it? But continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u96	A more specific question, however. We have also had a committee debate over the past year on discrimination with the Minister for the Interior. I have tabled a motion in which the Chamber decides on discrimination. The whole text of the motion states that discrimination based on medical personal characteristics is not permitted. Why did Mr Sneller vote against this motion and therefore say that discrimination based on medical personal characteristics in respect of D66 is allowed? Are there any other personal characteristics under which D66 allows discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u97	I have this motion, one of last year's 4,500 motions, not immediately. I am therefore happy to return to that in the second term. I think this is a fair question from Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u98	It is extremely weak that Mr Sneller is not even able to shed light on this situation here, but I await with great interest his contribution in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u99	Thank you. You came to the end of your term? I shall then give the floor to Mrs Arib of the Labour Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the last budget handling of Home Affairs. Normally, you also look back at what a ministry like this has done in the past period. I have to admit, when I look back, we don't have anything we can be proud of. The Ministry of the Interior was formerly referred to as "the mother of ministries" because it is a ministry that monitors citizens' fundamental rights, the rule of law, public access, for example Article 68 of the Constitution and the provision of information to the Chamber. Unfortunately, I see that this has been greatly neglected in the past period. It doesn't deserve a beauty prize. Then I start with the Public Administration Act as one of those examples, an incredibly important subject. On 5 July, just before the summer recess, we had a debate with this minister on the state of the rule of law, on Article 68 of the Constitution and, of course, on the provision of information to the Chamber. I am not going to repeat that debate, but I would like to return to the way in which the government handles Wob requests from various journalists. I would nevertheless like to dwell on the Wob request from Nieuwsuur (Nieuwsuur), which we also discussed last time, and the decision of the Council of State on this matter. I call it because this case has been dragging on for a year and a half and those involved have still not received all the documents from the VWS Ministry. They went to court then. The judge made a clear statement to the VWS Minister, namely that the Minister has a legal duty to make all documents public and to provide them to Nieuwsuur in this case. The Minister began to consider this matter and then appealed to the Court of Justice. Fortunately, last week, the Council of State also gave a ruling. He said that we need clarification by 30 November, otherwise a fine will be imposed. In the July debate this year, the Minister said: I am not entirely concerned about this, but as a system manager, I will address my colleagues who deal with Wob requests in this way. I am therefore incredibly curious about what the Minister has discussed, but also what has actually come out of it. I am just very sorry that we, the journalists and the media have to bring a lawsuit against the government about something that is actually regulated by law. If we even have to sue about the legal functions of the government, what about other things that are not entirely statutory? I'm very concerned about that. But I also quote this example to point out that there is a great deal wrong with the new governance culture that has been announced. An important part of this announced governance culture has to do with transparency and openness. These are the foundations of our democracy. Unfortunately, this foundation has recently been seriously undermined and citizens' confidence has been greatly undermined. And that trust is already at a low point. The public's confidence in politics was rarely as low as under this cabinet. Not only the Public Administration Act is a matter the Minister should look at and give priority to. I am also concerned that the government is constantly suing and appealing. That just costs a lot of money. Of course, the government has all the resources. Sometimes even civil servants are used to sort things out. I have also asked written questions about this in connection with a private matter raised by the Secretary of State for the Interior. This also shows that the government has much more power than journalists and citizens have. The latter end in the end. How many cases are there in the various departments? I can't wait to see that. What's the price of all these trials? And can we get an overview of that? And is this going to change with the Open Government Act? Is it getting better? That's what I'm looking forward to. That law is based on the active disclosure of all documents unless there are reasonable grounds for not doing so. How's that law gonna be implemented? This has not only to do with the Wob, but also with the willingness of the directors to implement that law and not always to get in the way of looking at the edges of the law, so a new governance culture. Will the Minister of the Interior now also insist that not only journalists and citizens should receive information through active disclosure, but that the Chamber should also receive it, on the basis of a generous application of Article 68 of the Constitution? Mr Leijten started with a point of order. She said we got the pieces late. Well, that's just a structural problem that comes back every time. That also affects the Constitution. The Chamber must be fully, timely and properly informed. I therefore call for a generous application of Article 68. Fortunately, not only do I say that, because the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe has also drawn attention to this. According to the committee, the right of Members of Parliament to full and immediate information pursuant to Article 68 of the Constitution must be made practical and effective. This committee points out that the government interprets Article 68 too restrictively and cites the child allowance affair as an example. The report also calls for attention to be paid to this. So I'd like to hear a reaction to that. I'd like to switch to municipal finance now. A number of colleagues have also drawn attention to this. The news is that the distribution model of the Gemeentefonds is being recalibrated. The criteria under which municipalities receive most of their income from this pot are indeed outdated. It is clear that adjustment is needed in order to better distribute resources among the municipalities. But it always fails to achieve a better distribution model. I think Mr Leijten has already said that it is incredibly complicated and complicated. It's been explained to me a few times, but it's very difficult to reproduce, so complicated it is. I understand there are few people who know that. In fact, last week's opinion from the Public Administration Council stated that the new model is not satisfactory, because it leads to undesirable effects. Many municipalities have to hand in large amounts per inhabitant, while the reasons for this are unclear. I'd say back to the drawing board. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to that. Fortunately, I am not the only one who did not read all the pieces last night, because Mr Sneller did not either. That information may have been sent to us in the middle of the night, but I would like to hear it in this debate. In fact, the main problem is not the distribution of the pot, the problem is that that pot is far too small. Then you can redistribute until you weigh one o'clock, there will always be churches, and so will their residents, who are upset about it. Because the problem is that three-quarters of the municipalities have had budget deficits for years. Almost a third of the municipalities did not get the budget conclusively and two out of three had to cut back, draw from the reserves or get that money from their citizens. This harms the provision of services to citizens. I'd like to get a response to that. Youth care is, of course, a poignant example of this. Additional money has now been promised, but that is not yet structural. However, municipalities need to know where they are in the youth care sector, but also in other areas, not only for the short term, but also for the long term. The Minister left the structural funding to the new cabinet from 2023; unfortunately, the present cabinet, I have to say, has not done much about it. This has given the municipalities, and especially their inhabitants, the feeling that they are being abandoned. If there is already too little money to meet the legal tasks, then we know what is going to die: libraries, sports fields and perhaps a swimming pool. They're gonna get into the tribulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u101	This is a bone in the throat for me, too. But much of the problem is caused by the scaling-up discount. It started with tens of millions and goes up to a billion. What I miss in Mr Arib's story is that she also mentions where that discount came from, who was responsible for it and how she looks back at it. Because that was a minister of her own party. That'll tell you where that happened. That amount was very slow in the budget, as it were, and then it rose rapidly. Then Mrs. Arib can look ugly, but it's just true, and it's ugly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u102	I look ugly at ugly questions sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u103	What have you done with your question? Yes. Mrs. Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u104	I look a little ugly because you were just taking us a little bit to measure how you are debating each other and about Mr Snels. What I am saying here is what I hear from the congregations, and I believe that these signals have also reached you. In your interruptions, you always put the ball back with someone else, through a kind of you-box: it was the former minister and it was the PvdA's. Well, if it was, it shouldn't have happened, then it was a mistake. I'm trying to raise a social problem that a lot of municipalities run into. But there too you see polarization: the small municipalities against the large municipalities and vice versa. I'm just going to put that down with this minister and I'd like to have a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u105	That is right, but that is not what Mrs Arib is doing in her term. She says this cabinet hasn't done anything about it, it's this cabinet's fault. That's all I'm trying to do. In previous debates, I praised the PvdA for the way in which this time it allocated by far the most money, 4 billion, to municipalities, while the next proposed less than half. I don't have any problem with that, and I'd love to. I am very pleased with the intention that we should then look at how we are going to solve it and how we can prevent it. I also mentioned the need to learn from mistakes. Perhaps that will be in your speech. Reflection on the past also means looking at how we can prevent that for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u106	As far as reflecting on the past is concerned, I fully agree with you. You've had four or five years to correct what went wrong. That's what I'm talking about. I hope that this minister, as long as she is a minister, will look at these signals and look for solutions. I do see a lot of problems in municipalities. I hear laughter on my left, in box-K. I hope they're listening. I also see many problems in parts of the country where there is shrinkage. In this context, I would like to recommend a beautiful piece from the Groene Amsterdammer about how The Hague disappeared from the Netherlands. In a compelling way, it describes how the villages lose all facilities: schools, hospitals, etc. Before Mr Sneller interrupts me: we of the PvdA have been partly responsible for this. I think it is very important that we, as politicians, sometimes make a pass in place of whatever party we are. If decisions have been taken that lead to many disadvantages and people feel abandoned, feel lonely, if facilities are almost unattainable for the elderly and so on, then we must be open and honest with each other. We also need to be able to fix things if they've gone wrong. In this respect, I would like to draw attention to the role of the public authorities, especially in those areas which have hardly any provision anymore. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna move on to integrity. A number of colleagues have also drawn attention to this. Municipalities and colleges of mayor and aldermen are faced with strengthened integrity rules. These are also reflected in all kinds of legislative proposals. My colleague from the VVD mentioned that as well. There will be rules on conflicts of interest and confidentiality, risk analysis and so on. We are going to discuss this separately on the basis of separate legislative proposals. But these themes not only affect local administrators, they also affect national government, government and parliament. Good and fine motions were passed on that yesterday. As a PvdA, we also voted in favour. I trust these motions will be carried out. It is not just about the government, it is also about the integrity of parliament. We have also taken steps in this area, such as the College of Research Integrity. In this context, however, I would also like to advocate the integrity of lobbying former chamber members. That's what we asked for in 2017. As a former chairman, I once suggested this at the Bureau. There was little support for that. I notice that many colleagues are open to this. Old room members should actually be treated in the same way as other professional lobbyists. We know that a large part of the MPs become lobbyists. They simply have passes and can walk in and lobby anywhere. I would like to table a motion on this matter in my second term. In that I ask the Bureau not to automatically grant a Second Chamber pass to former Chamber members. And if they have an agreement, then they have the same rules as other lobbyists. To speak to a special woman, Minister of the Interior, he said: "A little integrity is impossible. A breach of the integrity of the government means no less than the government losing the trust of the citizen." That is what Ien Dales said in 1992 and her ruling is still valid, including for us. Finally, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the security of local politicians. We know that we are threatened as national politicians. Sometimes we're protected, too. There is not much to be said about this. But local politicians and civil servants are also confronted with this. It gets less attention. My question to the Minister is therefore: how does she ensure that local government is resilient to all these threats? This applies to mayors, aldermen and councilmen, but also to civil servants. I would also like to pay attention to that. So much for my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u107	Thank you, Mrs Arib. I'll suspend for a few minutes. This isn't lunchtime yet. It's just a little stretching.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u108	I give the floor to Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA for her contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like many of you here, I've been involved in politics as a councilman. Every week I wrote in the local newspaper that we were working on as local politics. There were generally few reactions to this. Until I wrote an article about minor annoyances, great frustrations. In it, I asked people to report their greatest frustrations that occupied them on a daily basis. I knew that. Lack of green maintenance, poorly maintained bike paths, runners in the cores and of course dog shit. My mailbox exploded. I do not wish to make a plea here to allow the Minister to solve the dog shit problem, but to point out that the decisions we are taking here have major consequences for our local authorities. We are therefore to a large extent part of the ball to let our municipalities and provinces do the good things every day for residents. It's gonna take a lot of work. First of all, sufficient financial resources. We have known for years that the financial position of municipalities is worrying. I welcome additional money for municipalities in the 2022 budget. That'll give you air. This is also reflected in reports about the various local budgets. At first it was nothing but trouble and torment, fortunately this year we also see a number of more positive messages. However, my question is why the scaling-up discount has been deleted for municipalities, but not for provinces. A closing municipal budget is good news, but it doesn't say everything. I am concerned about possible backward investments that may have been forced by municipalities. Does the Minister have the idea that this is indeed happening and, if so, what are the amounts we are talking about? Or does she not see that risk and, if so, why not? The discussion on the Community Fund will continue in the near future. The starting point is that the cake needs to be better distributed. The ROB reacted critically to this last week. We understand that. You're gonna have a hard time explaining this redistribution. If something is not explained simply, we must seriously ask ourselves whether it is a good plan at all. My next question to the cabinet would be to respond to the ROB. Mrs Leijten already mentioned it: yesterday at 6:45 p.m., a letter of 25 sides came about this redistribution. Maybe it's me, but I just don't think it's okay that such fundamental information comes so late. The Minister knows that this is an important point for a number of parties here. I've heard a lot of people talk about it. I honestly don't get it, but I want to understand. That is why my question is: why are we only getting this information now? For those who are interested in the answer to this question: after consultation with the VNG, a response to the question of how to proceed will come in November. We believe that the cake to be distributed is not large enough and that long-term stability and clarity are desirable for municipalities. That is also what we need to talk about. But determining what the municipality needs structurally, starts with insight into which facilities a municipality should have minimal. That insight is lacking. The Minister indicated earlier that she and the VNG and knowledge institutes would examine the possibilities for this. I'm curious about the state of play. A second prerequisite is greater freedom of policy on certain tasks. I am not talking about elections or applying for passports, but about many topics that are more appropriate to the needs of a specific municipality and its inhabitants. If we want to better match the wishes and needs of residents, it is also important to strengthen the municipal councils. The same applies to the local opposition and new forms of civic participation. In short, there is a need for a fundamental discussion in parts. A motion was tabled on this matter in May. I am very curious about the proposals that will be submitted to us before the summer of 2022. Then a good relationship between a digital government and meaningful contact. In the 2020 budget process, we advocated further developing the right to this meaningful contact as a principle of good governance. This is what I am doing again. How useful is it for a citizen if he is only in contact with a computer system that he does not understand and does not address his problem? Or think about getting lost in a digital maze before you know where to go as a citizen. Don't get us wrong: we are in favour of developing digital support, but we also consider it important that communication from the government can be contacted personally at any time via a direct number and a name of an employee. The citizens must not get into trouble as the government continues to digitise. In fact, last year, a motion was adopted, and Mrs Leijten referred to this as a request for the right of access to government to be defined as a principle of good governance. We would receive information about this before Princess Day. Prince's Day 2021, I mean. But the Chamber hasn't received a letter yet. What's the status? In addition to meaningful contact, we believe that the human dimension is important to reduce the gap between government and citizens. We are therefore looking for citizens who cannot save themselves in contact with public authorities and implementing bodies to provide us with a window in every municipality with serving officials who are thinking along for just as long until a solution has been found. The Christian Union tabled a motion on this last year. We would like to hear the state of play on the implementation of this motion. Then please allow communication between citizens and government to take place in understandable language, because a serviceable government communicates in understandable language. The explanatory statement refers to the "Direct Clear Brigade" which helps to make government texts understandable. That's a nice development, but what about it? Are all the texts understandable now? Mr. Chairman. Here in The Hague we can write down what we expect from local authorities and how they should work on service, accessibility and reliability, but let me point out that in many cases they are just an example that we can learn from here in The Hague. Let us above all support them from The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u110	There's been an interruption for you from Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u111	I checked the CDA's election program and cda.nl. There is written about "a major problem in our Dutch democracy," namely fragmentation here in the House of Representatives, which is caused by split-off and one-man groups. That's why the CDA wants an electoral threshold. For example, the CDA has developed that threshold on the RTL News site. The CDA wants a voting threshold of three or four seats. So if you get four seats or less, you won't be in parliament. Coincidentally, the CDA was recently in the polls on four seats. Those are just polls, and it's still years before we get elections, but still. Is the CDA still in favour of a threshold of four seats?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u112	The position of the party at the moment in the polls is no reason for us to change our position at once. So, yeah, we still think this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u113	Clear. Thank you very much. Mrs. Van der Plas has another interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u114	I'd like to catch up on that electoral threshold. That's an interesting point. This year, about 70,000 votes were needed for one seat. What if you made three seats? Then there are 210,000 people who voted for you. Suppose five parties made three seats. Then you're talking about a million voters who wouldn't be represented in the House of Representatives. I wonder what the D is in the word "CDA." If those seats just go to other parties that those people didn't vote for, how does the CDA view democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u115	It's two things. I understand your point about the d of democracy, but on the other hand we also need a workable democracy. Let us just be very honest: it is not that things are going very easily with more and more parties with widely divergent views. I am certainly not saying that we should become a unitary sausage. There's gotta be something to choose. But imagine we have 150 seats to split and it's all parties with 5 seats. Then we still have a lot of opinions in the Chamber. An electoral threshold does not mean that opinions can no longer be properly represented in a democracy. Maybe people are going to choose much more consciously, because they know that it is very important to choose a party that represents their opinion as well as possible in order to make their voice heard. So I do not want to immediately conclude that the effect is as you propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u116	The ultimate form of democracy is that people can vote for parties they want, right? The support for the people here in this Chamber is determined by the electorate, isn't it? That is not determined by the political parties, is it? I don't care if 100 parties participate in the election. If the electorate supports those parties, they are simply entitled to a seat in the Lower House. I find it so weird to want that electoral threshold. Even if you have 150 parties here with one seat, we'll make that workable. Doesn't the CDA think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u117	Yes, if the point is to make it workable, I am indeed very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u118	Are you going to devote a third interruption to that, Mrs Van der Plas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u119	How many more do I have after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u120	You'll have three more after that. This is your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u121	Then I've got three more. Okay, because Mrs. Bromet still has to. So I'm gonna have to donate. I'll leave it at that. I'm assuming that electoral threshold at the CDA...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u122	No, you'll have to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u123	No, this is the third. After this little mini-debate that we have had here for a while, I assume that the CDA will consider the threshold for voting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u124	We find it interesting to work out the idea of a electoral threshold seriously and to think about it seriously with each other. Yes, we agree that if 150 parties should be represented in the Chamber, there is something to be said for that. But there's also something to say for the government of the country. Let us also be honest: forming a coalition with 150 parties is really just becoming very complicated. So it is not the intention at all to cut sounds or voices. In fact, with what I'm saying here, we're also running a risk as a CDA ourselves. Let us just be very honest about that, but I do think it is worth examining it with each other and having a debate on it. So let's just do that. Then we can discuss it on the basis of the information that comes to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u125	Then I'll look at Mr. Van Baarle. He's got an interruption on this, too, or maybe something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u126	No, of course I'd like to catch up at the same point. My impression of this point of view of the CDA is a bit of an old traditional power party, an old traditional governing party that finds it very annoying that new sounds are coming into the House of Representatives which disturbs those old relationships. And it is true that the CDA is no longer so bright in the polls, and then of course I still express myself lightly. I would like to hear from the CDA why new parties and new noises in the House of Representatives should be so negative. Among other things, the political party of the undersigned ensures that a lot of people in the country feel that they have representation again in this parliament. Why should this be said so negatively as 'fragmentation', as 'difficult for relations' and as 'unworkable', whereas it is an addition to parliamentary democracy? Finally, Mr President-in-Office, this brings with it a responsibility for the parties who have been here for a long time, namely to be open to these new noises rather than to say: we are introducing a threshold and we are banning them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u127	With the latter, you simply have a very important point. I believe that each party has a responsibility to compile its list in such a way that a good reflection of the Dutch population is represented. That's what it starts with. The moment we fail to do so, there is only more reason to set up more and more parties because certain sounds are not heard. So I think it's really starting at the base. Also as a party you have to take responsibility to be a broad reflection of Dutch society. That's what it starts with. And then a dialling threshold doesn't have to be obstructive to make those sounds sound properly. Look, you explain that way. You say you're reasoning like an old driver's party. Well, I think I have just said that I am not, because I am well aware that we are very much at risk of doing so at the moment. But it's really starting for me to make sure that the dialling list is a good reflection. That's what it starts with. Then people really have something to choose. And then you're really just a party representing the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u128	I also see Mr. Bishop leaning towards the microphone. And yes, he has an interruption for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u129	Of course, a 100-year-old here in the Chamber cannot be silenced by a electoral threshold that we would not achieve in the proposal or in the CDA's mind. Does Mrs Van Dijk agree with me that the problem of manageability is not so much in the number of small groups we have? Of course, we all see that you have a long list of speakers, but that is not the problem of manageability. But does Mrs van Dijk agree with me that the problem lies in larger groups that are mutually exclusive? That's one. And a second: splits of larger groups. In addition, how does Mrs Van Dijk, from the CDA and from that point of view of an electoral threshold, look at possible divisions after the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u130	Unfortunately, possible divisions are always the result of an internal conflict, otherwise you will not split up. That can be personal or content. I always find it very painful to see, because it also means that within your party there is just pain, so to speak. I don't know if you can prevent splits towards the future, because we're also just people trying to do politics with each other. I'm gonna find this thing, but then it's about your own party again, and you have to try and keep it together. You have to try to give people within your party the space. I also know that's not always easy. So how do I look at splits? I'd rather not, but it can happen. I can say, "Fuck, I like it." But then I find something of it on two sides: on the one hand, of the one who splits off and on the other hand, of the party from which the one who splits off. 'Cause a story just always has multiple sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u131	Sure. I am not so much concerned with the concrete examples you might think of as with the constitutional problem. You are making it impossible for smaller sections of the population to have access to representation, because Mrs van der Plas' calculation is, of course, correct. But when people who have been hitched with a larger fraction then continue independently, is the manageability better?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u132	Question mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u133	In that sense, is it not simply a solution to the electoral threshold? That is apart from the representative function of Parliament in terms of the noises in society, and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u134	I'm going to see Mrs. Van Dijk now. Your point is clear, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u135	You actually say: then you might as well go into the elections and then split off, because then you have the same effect. That's what you're talking about. I really think that all parties simply have a responsibility to ensure a good reflection on their list, because that's what it starts with, I think. Cooperation requires many more aspects. I don't have to mention the list. For example, it is about listening to each other and being open to each other. But, yes, we have to be honest: do we always do that enough in the Chamber at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u136	I see that Mr Bishop indicates that he has a slight interruption. I'm in favour of a very small interruption, but it counts. Go ahead, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u137	I'm still generously in my interruptions. I would ask Mrs Van Dijk to answer my first question: that the problem lies not with the smaller groups, but with the larger groups which cannot go through one door. I would be grateful if Mrs Van Dijk would answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u138	You're talking about excluding parties. That's what you're talking about. I don't think it's okay to rule out parties in principle. I'm going to tell you a personal anecdote that just cost me a lot of energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u139	A very short anecdote, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u140	That anecdote is directly related to this answer. I still think it's important to tell him. We also tried in Brabant not to exclude anyone, and that did not have any happy consequences. If you do not exclude anyone, that also requires something from the parties that are not excluded when it comes to working together and acting constructively. Unfortunately, I have found that sometimes this does not happen and that it would perhaps have been better to exclude it from the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u141	Mrs. Simons, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u142	I would like to ask Mrs Van Dijk whether she believes that there was enough diversity or representation at the last elections on the CDA's list of candidates. It just indicated that it thought it would be possible to guarantee that representation would also be translated into the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u143	I think that's a very good question. I do not think so, and neither do we as a party. We have a very active diversity working group within the CDA, which we actively involve, for example, in discussions on racism and discrimination. We are doing this precisely in order to involve these people better in our party. We hope so that they feel at home with our party and want to be on the list for our party. So it is certainly a point of attention to us. And it is certainly something that we are very actively committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u144	In fact, I conclude from Mrs Van Dijk's answer that she says: we have a club that deals with this. I think we can also conclude that this does not lead to results. I wonder how Mrs Van Dijk thinks people should feel represented within such a club in the meantime. I can assure you that these clubs lead to very little result, because the intrinsic presence is missing. Anyway, where does that lead?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u145	I'd like to respond to that. That club isn't just any club. That is a network that we take very seriously. We take that so seriously that whoever draws the network so far will also take a place in the CDA's day-to-day administration. In this way, we are simply trying to give people who dare to stick their necks out, in this case for diversity, a very significant place, because we see how important this debate is. Are we there today or tomorrow? No, we're not. I am proud, however, that we are working very closely and actively on it within our party. I do believe in those clubs as you call them, because I think they do have a voice within our party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u146	I will settle for this answer and ask another question. Is it not true that we are dealing in the Lower House with 150 MPs and that we are not dealing with a maximum number of parties? Isn't it true that we just have 150 representatives of the people who often unite in parties in a tradition that has arisen? But we're sitting here with 150 people's representatives, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u147	Certainly we have 150 representatives of the people here. But your point is that we have to work together all 150 separate parties. Do I interpret that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u148	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u149	We are not going to do that, because now Mrs Van Dijk is going to ask you the questions. Would you like to intercede on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u150	I do not wish to interrupt, but I would be happy to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u151	I understand that, but you'll do it on your own term. We are going to put an end to this piece of administrative innovation that has not yet come to an end. I am going to give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mr. Chairman. It's a rich budget, that of the Home Office. You'll notice that on all the topics that are being discussed. I have chosen to discuss three points. One of these points has already been discussed here. This concerns municipal finances and intergovernmental relations. I have a point about the sustainable state service and my third point concerns democracy and a piece of administrative innovation. First of all, the municipalities. Several speakers have already mentioned this to me. There is a lot of decentralised to the municipalities, but the municipalities are incredibly difficult. In fact, I found Mrs Van Dijk's speech quite striking. It's just that people get the most excited about something that doesn't go well on their own streets. I call a playground that disappears. That's something that hurts people so much. That's what they think the government is there for them. In recent years, municipalities have been hit by the scaling-up discount. It has been frozen for 2022. We, the Green Left, think that is very good, but we actually think that it should be permanently withdrawn. That is why I ask the Minister why she has frozen the scaling-up discount this year. Does she think that next year it can just go on again, that the discount has to come back? What we are not happy with is the one-sided removal of the staircase-to-strap-off system. This is already apparent from the interruption debate I just had with D66. That's not because we think that's the ideal system, but because we think you should look at the distribution of money in good consultation with local authorities. We have already made a point of this in the General Financial Reviews. I would also like to know from the Minister how he looks at the unilateral withdrawal of that staircase-to-strap system. Then there's the permanent state service. The Empire is one of the largest real estate owners. This offers opportunities for the sustainability of the built environment, but too many buildings of the Empire have not been preserved. How does the Minister view that? What are her ambitions? Doesn't she think, like GroenLinks, that we as the Empire should set a good example? The same applies to sustainable purchases. I'm on the LNV committee, too. We know that Europe is about to demand that 25% organic farming be set up in the country. The farmers say: yes, that is nice and nice and we want to be organic, but we have too little sales, because the customers do not buy it. How beautiful would it be if the Empire, which is also a major buyer of food, simply included in its procurement requirements that they should be organic products? How does the Minister feel about that? Finally, Mr President. Many decisions we take here are not about our lives but about those of younger generations, and they do not have a voice. That is why GroenLinks is strongly in favour of lowering the electoral age to 16 years. This has also happened in Austria, Greece and Malta. Belgium is going to start now. The European Commission has even called for this. We think it's a good idea. The budgetary procedure here is not the right place to get this done, which requires a constitutional change..... but I would like to start the discussion on this and I would also like to know what the Minister thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u153	Thank you very much. An interruption for you from Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u154	She'd already announced it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u155	Let's talk about organic products. A fine proposal in itself, but Mrs Bromet also knows that there is indeed not enough available. So are we not at risk, if we are going to say here in the Chamber 'only organic products', that we are going to get a lot from abroad? I don't know if that'll do it. Is that the incentive for other people to buy more organic products? Apart from the fact that organic food growing also causes more land use. More land use for agriculture also means less nature. So I was wondering how Mrs Bromet sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u156	First of all, GroenLinks believes that any form of agriculture should respect nature. Organic farming has a track record in that area. No pesticides are used, no fertilizer. Europe has said that the countries must reach 24%, 25%, while the Netherlands is at 4%. So we still have a very long way to go. To this extent, it is true that there is not enough offer. But it is precisely the farmers who say every time that we do not want to switch, because we are afraid that there is not enough marketing. On the contrary, we can encourage sales. That is also why I propose this here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u157	Let's get out of the way of a misunderstanding. It is not the case that organic farmers do not use plant protection products. They may, but it must be of biological origin. In my experience, and in my opinion in everyone's experience, poison is poison. Flying fungus is plant-based, but it's poisonous. So I would like to take this picture out of the world for a moment, because there is an image of many citizens that organic products have not been sprayed. But that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u158	And now for your interruption. Do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u159	I think it's important that we get things straightened out here for a while. Look, farmers don't say so much: I'd like to switch, but there's no trade. The point is that it is actually the certification body that says: you cannot switch because there is no sales. For example, in pig farmers there are waiting lists to organic...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u160	Would you like to come to your question, Mrs Van der Plas? You have given up very little speaking time, I see. You will think: I will do my speech on the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u161	I'll get it all here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u162	But we're not gonna fall for that. So you really need to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u163	No, sorry. Sorry about that. My question to Mrs Bromet is actually concrete: can we sit at the table together and just take a good look at the following questions? What's the effect? How are we gonna communicate that? How can we come to a good proposal together with GroenLinks, starting in the House of Representatives? That is a very good proposal: how can we sell the most sustainable products in the House of Representatives? They don't necessarily all have to be organic, but they have to be sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u164	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u165	I'm working with everyone, so I'm going into Mrs. Van der Plas' offer, of course. But I do hope that she shares the basic principles that we have for this discussion, namely that we want to contribute to the objective Europe is setting and that this percentage is a biological objective. Then, of course, I'll talk to Mrs. Van der Plas. It's not just about the House of Representatives, it's about taking away a misunderstanding. It's about all the expenses made by the Empire. So that's much wider than in the Chamberhouse here alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u166	Thank you. All right, the time and place will meet you outside the room, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u167	I would like to add one more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u168	This is your last interruption, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u169	I know. I'm taking all the risks I'm taking. I would like to make the agreement with Mrs Bromet if she wants to, because otherwise we will not have a discussion at all that we are not based on the principle of 'everything organic' but on 'everything sustainable'. Because commonly grown food can also be very sustainable, because it has a low ecological footprint. I assume Mrs Bromet is not against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u170	I'm against that, and I'll explain why. The Empire agreed years ago that 100% sustainable purchases would be made. None of that worked out. And why didn't any of that end up? Because it is not known what 100% is sustainable. I have just made a plea for organic because organic food is an existing certificate, where it is very easy to define exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u171	Thank you. Mr. Bosma's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u172	I'm sorry to have to break off this agricultural debate. I should have read the Agriculture budget in preparation, because now I am unprepared here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u173	I'm not gonna stop you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u174	To begin with, towards the person Bromet: GroenLinks imports all those left-wing modes, including the pronouns, the pronouns. So I was actually expecting Madame, or Sir, Bromet to make it clear whether she's a man or a woman. She hasn't done that now. I think that's weird. The point I want to make is this. In my term, I do not know whether Madame, or Mr. Bromet, has heard that. I have said something about climate ideology, which is basically totalitarian. The world needs saving, so we don't have much time. Democracy doesn't matter. Mr. Rotmans just openly pleads for...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u175	You explained all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u176	Yeah, but I don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u177	Mrs Bromet heard all that. What's your question to her?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mr Rotmans speaks openly about a climate dictatorship, about the fact that you actually need a police state to map out all those citizens' behaviours. In view of this plea for dictatorship, my question is whether the representative of GroenLinks agrees with me that climate ideology is actually going to lead to a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u179	I think democracy is extremely important. I feel that, as an elected member of this House of Representatives, there is a heavy responsibility on me to do what voters of GroenLinks ask. The voters of GroenLinks think climate policy is extremely important. There's eight of us. That's not totalitarian at all. We are making proposals here and we are trying to get majorities to do so. Sometimes it does and sometimes it doesn't. That is really very democratic and has nothing to do with totalitarian regimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u180	Thank you very much. I call Mr Cedar of the Christian Union. Perhaps to give you a bit of a picture of when you can finally get something to eat: my thought so far is that we will have lunch after Mr Dassen. Yeah? But it will depend a little on how it all goes and how much unrest Mr Ceder manages to bring into the Chamber. Mr. Ceder, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u181	I feel the pressure, Mr. Chairman. I'll do my best. Mr. Chairman. Our Constitution is the foundation of our society and reflects the values that have formed our countries. Values such as human dignity, freedom, responsibility, charity and space for difference; values which I dare to say in the formation of Dutch state law also derive their roots from Christian thought, but which are also so much broader. Values which we also see in particular in fundamental rights: freedom of association, freedom of expression, but also freedom of religion. I would also like to give an example of the prohibition of discrimination. These are all rights that bear us and are essential to our democratic rule of law. Those rights deserve a proper review. Although it is expected that the Chambers could assume that role fully, purely, objectively and expertly when adopting legislation, I regret to say that we could have been spared a great deal of suffering if the constitutional review had been stepped up in the recent past. Hence our desire for constitutional review. This is not just what the Christian Union wants, but what other parties want. As the President-in-Office of the Council recently said before the Court of Justice, fundamental rights become more than just texts on paper; they really help people. The Venice Commission also recommends constitutional review. This is the right step as far as the Christian Union is concerned. A motion has recently been passed. The cabinet indicates what the possible effects could be and leaves it to the next cabinet to prepare the possibilities technically. I would like to know which variants are envisaged, but also: where would this minister prefer? I would like to challenge the Minister, who may be working on her last BZK budget, to share with the Chamber her reflections over the last four years on ensuring the Constitution and on constitutional review. The European Commission for Democracy by Law, also known as the Venice Commission, has said much more in its report and recommendations. I wonder how the cabinet will deal with this and how it assesses it. How does this follow up? Mr. Chairman. This committee also referred to a point that the Christian Union considers important, namely tailor-made work to make exceptions to legislation. With precedent as an image of fear we see that there is often fear to distinguish, apply hardness clauses or use discretionary powers. The principle of equality is there to protect citizens from arbitrariness, not to protect the government from arbitrariness. This is also the reason why the Christian Union has taken the initiative with a number of parties to make more tailor-made work possible in social security. But can the Minister imagine that, in addition to the principle of equality in the Constitution, there will also be a principle of grace, or the right of grace as it is called in Belgium, in the Constitution? A frameworked area for political directors to make an exception without having by definition legal effects or precedent for others on the basis of the principle of equality. The democratic control of improper use can, of course, take place. Mr President, another point, namely municipal finances. Something has already been said, and we too are concerned. Around Prinsjesdag came the circular and two days later it was withdrawn. This has led to difficulties and errors in the budget in a number of the municipalities we have approached. These could be repaired later, but I was wondering how we could prevent this from happening in future. How can municipalities trust that the circular is correct? In future, could municipal financials perhaps look forward to ensuring that municipalities can work with clear and careful figures and information? Mr. Chairman. Something has already been said about understandable language. That is a point that the Christian Union considers important. For me and for you, understanding a woolly letter may be difficult, but for 2.5 million people in our country that is a huge problem. They just don't understand the government. That is a group that often has to do with poverty and debt and for whom it is difficult to find the way to the government. The Secretary of State is doing a lot to make government communication easier, I know that. But how do we prevent communication from becoming dependent on one or more enthusiastic officials who want to work with it? What steps is the Secretary of State going to take to put the authorities that are less enthusiastic about this in motion? Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we were at a bottleneck round table...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u182	One moment, Mr. Ceder. The acoustics in this room are extremely good and this prevents you from speaking with one another, even though you are doing it very quietly. If that's what you want, you should do it in the walkway. Proceed, Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was already surprised that my plea for good and understandable language caused unrest, but I think we agree on that. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we understood from client councils that it really makes a difference at local and municipal level in which municipality you live or get your independent customer support. It's not every city that picks that up. Does the Secretary of State see room to encourage municipalities to make independent customer support more possible and facilitate better, so that people who have difficulty finding their way to the government, locally and nationally, get support for it? We have been committed to this in recent years. Mr. Chairman. It's just been recalled, but Amnesty's report on algorithms in the supplemental affair gave me abdominal pain. I find it difficult to digest the conclusion of the investigation that the algorithms used by the Tax Administration for checking incorrect applications with child care allowance and fraud have led to ethnic profiling. But there was also a certain irony in it. I read in the report that, for example, people with a Ghanaian nationality were checked and that combinations of postal codes were possible. This happened at a time when I was studying law and in Amsterdam-Zuidoost I was confronted with people of that nationality. They said they couldn't get through it anymore. This may have deliberately or unconsciously formed my image of the powerlessness of citizens towards the government, and perhaps because of that my political aspirations. I looked at it and until a few years ago, I was assisting parents in the supplementing affair. There was something that struck me that I could not yet place and what was not clear from Amnesty's report: we know that people were profiled on their second nationality, but what about people who had Dutch nationality, but who have family ties with non-Western nationalities? Because that would mean that people of Dutch nationality also fell within the risk profile. Amnesty could not answer that because the dates were not discussed. They've been able to use research from the AP. I would just ask the Minister because she is also concerned about this. I wonder: are people of Dutch nationality, but with family ties with a non-Western background, included in that risk profile? Do you think she'd like to make that data public?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u184	Mrs. Leijten, I already indicated it when you walked to the microphone: your interruptions are over. I'm sorry. You have a second term. Proceed, Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u185	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u186	Mrs. Leijten, I'm not going to have that discussion with you. We have made arrangements in advance and they also apply to you, so please sit down and Mr Ceder can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u187	I think I've heard what Mrs Leijten is talking about. Of course, I recognise that Dutch victims have also been killed. I didn't mean to suggest anything else. It's a sub-group that I have a sub-question about. I hope that this is the right answer to your question. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to draw attention to vulnerable neighbourhoods. Several mayors call on national politics to come up with a joint 20-year delta plan and ask for direction and coordination of the Empire. An example of this is the master plan Rotterdam-Zuid and Amsterdam-Zuidoost. Here too, direction, support and help from the Empire are needed. You are probably also familiar with the plea Close the Clave! How does the Minister see the role of the Empire vis-à-vis the vulnerable neighbourhoods spread across the country? She shares the ambitions of the manifesto Close the Clave! And how does she see the role and direction? Mr. Chairman. I started with the Constitution and I will end with it. The Constitution protects and connects and is a document with words that have a major impact on our daily lives. We should also see them in our daily lives. I think it would be good if we brought this among the people as well. The Constitution anchors our rule of law and reflects the values that we consider important in the Netherlands. How nice would it be if everyone who enters a court, whether you are a judge, a prosecutor, a lawyer, a client, a suspect or in any capacity, is confronted with the Constitution, which protects us all, and in particular the democratic rule of law? That is why I will table a motion with Mr Omtzigt to make the Constitution visible and available to courts, courts, the Supreme Court and the Council of State. I would like to hear whether the Minister agrees with me that this could be an example of making the Constitution that protects and limits us all more visible in everyday life. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u189	I would like to raise a point of order on the risk selection system, which has been out of date for a year and a half, which has never been shared with the Chamber. This allowed Amnesty's research to be carried out only partially, on the basis of reports from others. Can I make a point of order that the government makes this public for the second term, so that we can see what risk selections were on other parts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u190	You're bringing it up as a point of order. That means that the Chamber has to speak out about that. Then we go there... I can do it differently. I'll see if there's any objection to this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mrs Leijten's request concerns information to the Chamber. I don't think you need a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u192	But then it is not a point of order. Good. I sail on your expertise here. Then we don't have to establish that; that saves us. Then we'll transfer this section of the stenogram to the cabinet. You ready, Mr. Ceder? Yes. I am going to give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. War is peace. Freedom is slavery. Ignorance is strength. These three remarkable slogans together form the official slogan of the almighty party who controls everything and everyone in the dystopian, totalitarian state described by George Orwell in his 1984 book. It symbolizes the idea of "double thought." That double thought is a term used for the phenomenon that people who are constantly confronted with propaganda, forcing them to live in a state of fear, can be brainwashed in such a way that they start to regard totally contradictory and totally illogical thoughts as correct and logical. It is clear that George Orwell's book warns against the techniques that totalitarian regimes use to gain absolute control over a population. I kept thinking about this when I was preparing this debate on the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. Because there are a lot of totally illogical and contradictory reasonings in the Minister's plans. Let me give you a few examples. The Minister wants to prevent the dissemination of information she considers to be disinformation, supposedly in order to strengthen democracy. This is what she writes, while in the sense that a multitude of views and opinions constitute the lifeblood of any democracy. So she manages to write that freedom of expression is essential in a democracy, and then to announce a total attack on the free word. In doing so, she actually poses herself as a minister of truth, who can determine for a while what is and is not disinformation. That's how she's gonna kill that freedom of speech. We read that the Minister is working on the development of a "digital identity" in which, among other things, the biometric data of Dutch citizens are stored, supposedly in order to better guarantee the fundamental right to privacy. It's really there! A child understands that a greater impairment of our privacy is difficult to imagine. And so we see at the assembly line the most insane reasoning of the minister, who is at odds with what she is actually doing or has done. I'll mention another one. She writes: "The backbone of our democracy is the choice of people's representatives in free and accessible elections." I fully agree with that, but these are strange words from the mouth of a minister who changed the law before the last elections to completely reverse the overall process of voting and counting and tossed it completely. This made it impossible for citizens to control the free and fair conduct of our elections. People have been able to vote massively for the first time since the introduction of our parliamentary democracy. For the first time in history, voices that were not yet counted were allowed to be transported to central counting sites outside the sight of the citizens. For incomprehensible reasons, the presidents of counting locations suddenly even had the power to stop counting the votes if the counters were in danger of getting tired. All this because even transparent elections would seem to pose a threat to our public health. The Minister also has the mouths of strengthening local democracy. In the meantime, however, it is mainly concerned with merging municipalities, i.e. destroying existing municipalities, because precisely these horrible reclassifications are clearly creating a greater distance between citizens and politics and less democratic participation, and thus making democracy less local. How dare this Minister take the word 'democracy' in any way after she has shamelessly singled out the referendum? Surely that is a clear signal that the Minister and the regime to which she belongs are not at all waiting for critical citizens who have an opinion on something? Mr. Chairman. What was the Minister supposed to do? The Minister of the Interior is responsible for our Constitution. The main task of this minister, as can be found on the front page of the Ministry's website, is to safeguard the core values of democracy. The next year, which was also in force for the last year, therefore, the Minister has a unique opportunity to show that she stands for our fundamental rights, so that other ministers will leave it out of their minds to restrict illegal fundamental rights, because they know that they will then be dealing with Minister Ollongren. That should be self-evident. This minister is primarily responsible for monitoring our Constitution. If other ministers want to restrict fundamental rights, they must first pass Minister Ollongren. But this minister let her colleagues do their job undisturbed. When Minister Grapperhaus' bat squad bludgeoned peaceful corona protesters like seals and hit the hospital, the minister should have intervened immediately, picked up the phone and told Minister Grapperhaus that demonstrating is a fundamental right, not only for Black Lives Matter protesters, but for all protesters. Where was the Minister when it appeared that Minister Schouten of Agriculture was working on plans to take away our farmers' own bloody land? Of course, she should have gotten to Minister Schouten right away and said, "What are you thinking about even thinking about ways of expropriating our farmers? We still have something like property law in the Netherlands. But she remained deafeningly silent. Why didn't we hear from the Home Secretary when a journalist from the BlackBox media platform got the police at the door, for the reason that he would have interviewed someone who, and I quote the police, "other than the government expects us to be"? Shouldn't the Minister have let you know that she's not waiting for a thought police because we know something like freedom of speech in this country? And if the Minister thinks that she should counter the spread of disinformation, why doesn't she finger her fellow Minister De Jonge when he lies that the so-called vaccines are safe and have gone through all the tests and trials? That is, in fact, wrong. Why doesn't she block Minister De Jonge in his eager attempt to emotionally blackmail healthy young children to be injected with risky experimental gene therapy and thereby lose their physical integrity? Above all, where is the Minister now, when it really comes to it, with her so-called fight against discrimination? Now that the apartheid state is definitively introduced and unvaccinated are stigmatized and excluded from social life? How far can the regime go to harassing, ridiculing, demonizing, bullying, excluding and spitting unvaccinated people until this minister once knocks her fist on the table in the Council of Ministers and says "that's enough"? I'd like a reaction. Mr President, I will conclude. I have little confidence that this Minister will do anything that is even somewhat democratic. In fact, what it is actually doing is antidemocratic. Indeed, not undemocratic, but antidemocratic. It is not only neglecting its duty to protect democracy, it is making targeted attacks on our democracy or what is left of it. Instead of protecting fundamental rights, it contributes to further restricting them and further developing the totalitarian state in the making. She contributes to bringing our beautiful country under foreign rule of a new world order. That makes her an accessory to nothing less than treason. Mr. Chairman. George Orwell describes in his book, among other things, how the almighty state rewrites the history books and keeps the people ignorant of the truth. In that scenario, this anti-democratic minister might go into the history books as a heroine. But the good news is that we won't let that happen. More and more people see us being lied to and deceived. Our party is growing day by day, and we will continue to expose the lies and regain our freedom, so that the minister will certainly go into the history books, but not as a heroine, but as the minister who turned against our democracy almost abolished our fundamental rights, but failed miserably at the last moment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u194	Thank you. I would remind you that you have used 1.5 minutes more than you have given up speaking time. That depends on your colleagues' speaking time. You will therefore no longer have time for the second term unless you take other decisions in the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u195	Mr President, may I comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u196	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u197	The Forum for Democracy requested 15 minutes, initially with two speakers. One speaker checked out, but we'll stick to the 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u198	Apologies. You're right. I forgot about that for a second. You're right, I'm sorry. Mr. Sneller has another interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u199	One and a half minutes of bizarre accusations. I want to get one out. The Democracy Spokesman's Forum says here that he is questioning the legitimacy of the previous elections, on the basis of which we are sitting here. Does he recognize the results on which we are now sitting here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u200	I can't prove the election results are wrong. I cannot prove that there has been fraud, but what is worrying is that I cannot say with certainty that there has not been fraud, precisely because a legislative proposal has entered into force which has made the process untransparent. Since the introduction of our parliamentary democracy, it was customary that in the morning, when a voting room was opened, the chairman of that voting room showed an empty container and closed the container, where all citizens had access to the polling room and could see what was happening there all day, with every voice entering the container until the end of the day that container was emptied and the last vote was counted. That fundamental starting point for ensuring free and fair elections has been destroyed by this minister. So we simply cannot say it with certainty, because we do not know what happens to the votes when they are hidden from view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u201	Thank you. I see you still want to interrupt, Mr. Faster, but you're through your interruptions. Thank you very much, Mr Van Meijeren. Finally, Mr Dassen has the floor for the break. I forget to mention that he's Volt's, but I think most people know that by now. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We see enormous challenges ahead: the climate crisis, housing and a staggering rule of law. It is impressive to occasionally see at what rate the urgency of these challenges is increasing. In the absence of a missionary cabinet, we Members of Parliament have an even greater responsibility to tackle these challenges with each other. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also faces major challenges, including governance and democracy, living and digitalisation. I would like to focus on these three issues today. Mr. Chairman. One of the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior is to ensure the proper functioning of our public administration. That is quite a tough task, because I see that our democracy is vulnerable and our administrative culture is sometimes far from healthy. We see that this has led to a major crisis of confidence. There is no confidence of the Dutch in the politics, of the politics in the Dutch, of this Chamber in the board, but in my opinion also of the board in our Chamber. Of course, it is also up to us as parliamentarians, Mr Sneller, to reflect how we work. I am thinking of the amount of motions tabled, but also of the billing culture. Mr. Chairman. The crisis of confidence is the result, among other things, of a lack of transparency, of a Chamber which, due to a lack of support, is not sufficiently able to do its job properly, but also of an inaccessible and invisible government, both literally and figuratively. De Telegraaf and, as Mrs Arib just pointed out, De Groene Amsterdammer recently wrote about this. The disappearance of public services, such as libraries, schools, hospitals, neighbourhood centres and banks, especially in outlying areas, leads to the disappearance of the government for a significant part of the Netherlands. This while public facilities should be accessible to all. That is why I believe that we should have a fundamental and fundamental discussion about the value of our public services. So I also wonder how the Minister looks at this trend. Is he willing to take action to reverse this trend? Mr. Chairman. In this light, I would also refer to the GRECO recommendations, which, according to yesterday's letter, have not all been followed up by the Minister. The letter states that the so-called post-office measures, such as the cooling-off period for directors, on which I tabled a motion last month, are not yet being implemented. In this motion, the Chamber calls on the outgoing cabinet to introduce a two-year cooling-off period, setting up an independent review committee. This is an example of a GRECO recommendation that could be implemented without any delay. I ask the Minister how this motion will be followed up. How is it working out? I ask the Minister to provide a concrete timetable when this is to take place. I ask these questions again because the message from De Telegraaf of 15 October shows that the Demissionary Cabinet is considering this matter, but has not yet come out of it. The article points out that initiators are concerned about the job opportunities of former executives. I would like to ask the Minister whether this really is a real concern of rulers or whether it is even more part of an old view of politics. In the letter, the Minister further talks about implementing the recommendations by establishing a code of conduct. I was hopeful about this, but unfortunately it was short-lived. The Minister also leaves the concrete effect to a new cabinet. I understand that the recommendations need to be worked out carefully, but also ask the Minister if she agrees with me that we can no longer wait for a new cabinet to tackle such serious problems. In addition, I would like to ask the Minister to give an undertaking that good examples from the European Commission, the European Parliament and other EU Member States will be explicitly taken into account when drawing up the recommendations. Mr. Chairman. During the debate on 8 September on the double roles of directors, I tabled a motion asking the government to establish a mandatory lobby register for directors, officials and politicians in accordance with the European Commission's lobby register. I have just spoken to Mr Sneller about it. I have retained this motion because the Minister indicated that keeping a lobby register concerns integrity policy during the office and that the drafting of the GRECO recommendations is left to a subsequent cabinet. But as I have just said, a new cabinet is not yet in sight and we have no time to lose. I would like to hear from the Minister exactly which hooks and eyes were attached to this motion, so that I can assess whether I am in favour of this motion, the motion in part No. 12 (35896), put to the vote again. Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'm gonna do. There are also huge problems in the area of housing. There are no equal opportunities on the housing market, the number of homeless has doubled in ten years and a large number of young people still live unintentionally with their parents. Housing is a fundamental right and everyone has the right to an affordable home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u203	One moment. I said at the beginning of this debate that there is a separate legislative consultation on the subject of living and space.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u204	Ah!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u205	Such consultations will take place on 15 November. So I would like to spare you speaking time but also the risk that you will not get any answers in the first term from the cabinet. So save that for the legislative consultation, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u206	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wasn't in at the time. I was indeed surprised that there was no mention of it. I thought: well, at least I have something else to add!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u207	You thought, "We really have a scoop. There's a problem in the housing market, and they all don't know it."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u208	Exactly. I figured something's going completely wrong here, but okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then we'll take that with us. That does indeed save speaking time. Mr. Chairman. Last but not least, a subject on which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the direction: digitalisation. The world around us is digitizing at a rapid pace. It is therefore time for us to think further about the place that digitalisation deserves within the government, but also what place the government deserves within the digital environment. This is obvious to Volt. We now have a Committee on Digital Affairs and we have a separate budget debate on Digital Affairs. A logical follow-up would therefore be for us a Minister for Digital Affairs, who directs the digital affairs of the Netherlands, from cyber threats to data power and from government-IT to our digital infrastructure. It is precisely such a minister who can do business in Brussels, the place where many major issues of digitalisation are discussed. We hope this is actually on the formation table right now. Mr. Chairman. Technology in a digital society should work for citizens and put public values at the centre. Too often we see the opposite. The Amnesty report has already been cited by a number of colleagues. That report confirms that the government infringes the fundamental rights of citizens through the use of algorithms and the use of discriminatory risk models. The cabinet writes in response to the findings that it recognizes these findings and will do everything in its power to ensure that this never happens again. But how can we assume this without clear government lines on the use of risk models and algorithms? Does the Minister know where other places within the government are currently using these discriminatory algorithms? What measures and safeguards does the Minister take to counter the effects of infringements of fundamental rights already? Mr President, concluding. Even if we are talking about Home Affairs today, we must not forget to look outwards as well. Challenges that play here also occur in France, Bulgaria, Spain and other European countries. We can sometimes find the solutions there. We will make every effort to do so and cooperate as much as possible within this Chamber with the eyes out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u209	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u210	Let's take a break now. I wish you all a pleasant lunch. I'm suspending the meeting until 1:50 p.m. Then we shall first proceed with two swearing-in of new colleagues.
