ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u1	I ask members and directors to take their place. The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I welcome the leaders: the Prime Minister, the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament, particularly Mr Van der Molen, who is back in our midst. Welcome back, I'll tell him. I also welcome the viewers at home. I would like to agree with Members that we can ask each other four questions, or make comments, in the first period, and also four questions or comments to the directors. I call on everyone to keep it compact. The same applies to the rulers, but that also applies to us as Chambers. I would also ask everyone to speak through the President. In a recess, you always think about how things can be sharper. These are the appointments I would very much like to make with the Chamber. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We all hope that we will end up in a new phase now that the vaccination rate in the Netherlands is rising. Hats off to all those who have taken their responsibility and been vaccinated, for themselves but certainly also for others. This new phase requires a clear approach from the cabinet. It is a good thing that the main objectives remain the same: do not overburden the care and pay particular attention to the impact on the economy and the well-being of people. But a high vaccination rate requires that you look at infections differently. The VVD hopes that the new roadmap will clarify this at the beginning of September. The VVD believes it is important that, where possible, we take regional measures and be able to tackle and kick out local outbreaks, as the Minister always says. What will be the cabinet's approach to the roadmap? Mr. Chairman. We must make every effort to get the vaccination rate as high as possible, in all neighbourhoods, towns and villages, old and young. What is the government going to do in concrete terms about information, specific actions in neighbourhoods and regions and in groups where vaccination rates are lower? Picking without an appointment and close can help. Can the Minister guarantee that close pricking remains possible and that all vaccination sites can be punctured without an appointment? Now, for example, it seems that that is not possible in Drenthe. In Noardeast-Fryslân the vaccination rate is relatively lower, but the puncture site Dokkum is closed. Mr. Chairman. The VVD understands the line of phased relaxation, given the experience before the summer, the uncertainty about people returning from holidays and the consequences of the opening of education. The VVD also understands the frustration of the entrepreneurs in the event sector and the discotheques and nightclubs. What has been done with the motion on testing for access from the last debate? What were the experiences of the field labs for these sectors and how have they been taken into account? The VVD considers it important for these sectors to have a perspective, that there is sufficient support and that there is good consultation. Reading in the media about ventilation in the hospitality industry and saying "we make policies" is not a good approach. How will the cabinet ensure that everything is ready to take place in such a way that activities can actually take place? Can a cinema be opened later on on the basis of the one-and-a-half meter rule, as it is now, if one chooses to do so? If more work is done on testing for access, the problems with the CoronaCheck app must be solved. We get regular signals that people with two vaccinations cannot create a QR code. Can the Minister guarantee that? Mr. Chairman. The Health Council will look at a booster in September, or a third shot, especially for vulnerable groups. The VVD asks the cabinet to also have an extra shot for people vaccinated with AstraZeneca. We have regular questions about this. Mr. Chairman. Entrepreneurs and private parties are free to decide for themselves whether to ask for a corona admission ticket, such as the dance school in Utrecht. Would the cabinet like to pronounce this as well? In addition, as a VVD, we think it is logical that if everyone has had the opportunity to be vaccinated, tested for access and travel, that is the principle of profit..... is no longer free. Mr. Chairman. If we impose on companies a duty of care for a healthy and safe working environment, they must also have the necessary information about this vaccination, especially those where the 1.5 metres cannot be properly observed. Is the Cabinet prepared to take steps in this respect? Mr. Chairman. Finally, we would like to know what lessons have been learned from testing for travel this summer. A lot went wrong there. There were people who didn't have a test result after five days. What about the purchase of developing antivirals by the European Union? Because it seems that we will be the last, and that does not seem to be a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. When you look around the street, you actually see the end of the movie as you'd like to see it, with a happy ending. In the city where I live, we see groups of students on the bike and walking down the street. The introductory week is about to begin. There is quite a mood among young people who, as usual, are back at the beginning of a new era, and who are going to be allowed to go to college and to school. That's good, because there is no generation of students who have spent as much time in his own dorm room as this. For them now the happy ending of the movie called corona is shining. The scientists and the vaccines are of course the heroes of that film, but the question is whether it has already ended. Because when I looked at last Friday's press conference, it turned out there was also a cliffhanger. A lot of questions were asked by the cabinet itself, such as: are we going to send for infections or hospitalizations? And also some ethical dilemmas about vaccinations passed through the review. For example, the Minister of VWS said that vaccination is a free choice, but a free choice does not mean a free choice. Freedom never comes without responsibility, for yourself and for the people around you. I couldn't agree more. I would add that the OMT also says that it is real that in the autumn we will again have pressure on care by people who do not want to be vaccinated. The hospitals indicate that a new peak will once again ensure that ordinary care is postponed. With a threatening flu wave, we can't have that. Imagine we're in a situation of a pandemic of unvaccinated but we need to re-introduce measures for everyone. I can't explain that. Answers to these ethical questions and concrete steps are needed. But they were not given at the press conference, when it is actually time for political action so close to that final act. So let us make a first start today, where for my group vaccination remains the starting point. We have three concrete proposals. One. We know that a very small percentage of Dutch people are really opposed to vaccination, for example in the Biblebelt and on Urk. But most of the non-vaccines have not yet been properly informed or have been downright misinformed. There are European countries, such as Denmark and Ireland, which manage to reach a much larger proportion of the 50-plussers. So are all those fantastic efforts of the GGD enough? Are all options really explored? The pharmacists are willing to play a role in pricking. I can see that part for them, too. I'd like a reaction to that. Two. On 20 September, every 12-plusser was able to be fully vaccinated. We will continue to work with test certificates, but on what date can we ask for a contribution to that test? As far as my group is concerned, this can be done from October. And three. We see that countries oblige healthcare workers to vaccinate. We don't have to go that far, because I'm proud that the caregivers were actually lining up here for that shot. But because they work with vulnerable people, patients do want to know if a nursing unit or home care has been vaccinated, in order to prevent them from being at greater risk of infection. So my question is: how can the cabinet allow employers to ask their employees? This ensures a lot of transparency and a safe environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u5	I'd like you to finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u6	Finally, Mr President. The students are now allowed to go back to school, but the Summer of Love was smothered in two weekends of dancing, with or without Janssen. According to the cabinet, on September 20th, the 1.5 meter is over, but the summer is over as well. And in the case of organizers of events and festivals that have little perspective in winter, that is very acidic. So how does the Cabinet help them through winter? And does the 75 people as a border for the ticket after 20 September also have support from entrepreneurs and companies? Can they still think about something that might work even better? Can we learn from abroad? Mr. Chairman. I'm proud of the science and trust that a lot of people give to it. If enough people are vaccinated, there will also be an end to the drama film called corona. Let's get together and make sure there's no sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u8	I had a question for Mr Paternotte. He was talking about a contribution to testing. I was wondering how Mr Paternotte sees that. Is that a contribution that only unvaccinated people have to pay? Is it a contribution that everyone has to pay? If so, how do you see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u9	Unvaccinated people don't have to take that test. So you don't have to pay a contribution, except that unvaccinated people now automatically, via taxes, contribute to testing for everyone and therefore for the people who have not been vaccinated and who need the test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u10	Of course, vaccinees can also be contagious. So you can also get to a point where it is said "everyone has to get tested again," because anyone who has been vaccinated can also infect someone else. So I was wondering how you'd see it, forward in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u11	Vaccines can also become infected and can also infect others. That's a much smaller chance. This was made very clear at the technical briefing this morning: that difference is very big. That is also very important, also because they cannot get sick themselves. At the moment, therefore, the policy is that vaccinees do not have to do the test. If that were the case at some point, the situation would change as far as I am concerned. Then you would no longer have a choice whether you need the ticket or choose the vaccination. But at the moment that's just not the case. I think it is reasonable to say in a few weeks' time, if everyone has had the chance, that you will also pay your own contribution. This aside from the fact that we're all paying for it now, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u12	I have a supplementary question to ask. Of course, there are plenty of people who just have a very tight scholarship, but who might want to go to the theatre sometime. We also encourage people who may not always have access to cultural events to attend cultural events. There are also people who might want to go to the movies sometime. I wonder how Mr Paternotte sees that. For example, do you already have an amount in your head that people will have to pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u13	No, I think the cabinet should just look at what's reasonable. Except for people, it's something you have to pay for. I think the culture sector is a very good example. Of course, we all contribute to all those theatres and stages. And rightly so. I am very pleased that this gives us a vibrant cultural life. We have had to do a great deal of work to keep that up in the last year and a half. The tickets are somewhat affordable for the people because we all support them. Otherwise, a lot of culture would be completely unattainable for large groups of Dutch people. But those tickets aren't free. The same goes for those tests. You'll take advantage of it yourself if you can take that test. Then it doesn't make any sense at some point, I think, that all the other Dutch people have to pay for it permanently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mrs. Van der Plas, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u15	At the risk of keeping my mouth shut for the rest of the debate, I shall ask my question anyway. The Convention for the Protection of Human Rights explicitly states that everyone has the right to and access to culture. This access is already limited for people with a tight scholarship, because of the price one has to pay for theatre, cinema or festival. That price actually gets even higher when you impose on people that they also have to pay for a test even if BBB thinks it's ridiculous that, if you want to go somewhere, you should be subject to mandatory testing, but this aside. But the blockade is getting even higher. I thought that D66 was always a party that loves culture and also stands up for the weak in society. So I'm wondering if that's the way you're gonna stand by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u16	If we really want to do something here and now for the cultural sector, we call on everyone to be vaccinated. If enough people do so, we no longer need access tests and restrictions. Then the culture sector can be completely open again, there is no need to use access tests and all places can be occupied, instead of just one third or two thirds of the sites, as is still the case today. That is what the cultural sector is very keen to go to. That is the most important thing we can do for that. If too much of the Netherlands doesn't make that choice, there can be another huge pressure on the care, which may be that someone who needs chemotherapy or heart surgery gets to know that he only has to wait a while. We really need to avoid this situation together. We know exactly how to prevent this. That is why we must call on everyone together to be vaccinated. If too few people do that and we still have to work with access tests to get through the winter for a while, then I do not think it is reasonable for Dutch people who do not use such an access test to pay for the people who do need these tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u17	We know Mr Paternotte's vaccination obsession. He has also tweeted about it very often in the past period. I was just grabbing on that own contribution. People who have been vaccinated and who have been tested must also pay for it. While the reasoning line of D66 was: Everyone has been given the opportunity to be vaccinated.............................................................................................................................................. Do these people have to pay for that while they've been vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u18	We are not currently working with tickets for people who are fully vaccinated. Maybe you have a proposal to change that, but this morning during the technical briefing we heard that the chance of you getting sick is eight times smaller if you've got two Pfizer shots. The chances of you getting into the hospital are about 20 times smaller. The underlying story is that the chance that healthy people who got two shots get sick is actually almost nil. That means a lot. The RIVM has completely sorted that out for the British variant, the alpha variant. Chances of your roommates getting infected dropped by 70% if you were vaccinated. In other words, the chances of infecting someone else just gets much smaller. Is that gonna be zero? No. That is also what I hear you and Mrs van der Plas say. But the point is that it's much less likely. And if enough people have been vaccinated, then that's a risk that's so clear that you can make many more things possible again. Then theatres, stages and festivals can also be completely open again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u19	That's exactly the point. You don't reduce the risk to zero, so you always have to keep testing it, when you feel sick or when you have symptoms, available and accessible, whether you have been vaccinated or not. I hear D66 arguing that you should pay for it if you're vaccinated, still have symptoms and want yourself tested. In my opinion, the reasoning line of D66 was that everyone had the opportunity to be vaccinated. If you have not taken advantage of that, as far as I am concerned, there are a lot of fundamental objections; we have talked about this often enough, so do you not have to force those people to pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u20	No, I didn't. I don't think you should charge people who are sick or have complaints for testing at the G.D.D. I'm talking about testing for access and testing for travel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u21	I have a very specific, clarifying question. Is the own contribution for non-vaccines, for which you are advocating, an example of vaccination urge or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u22	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u23	What is an example of vaccination urge? You can think of it yourself; it's hypothetical.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u24	I don't know. Force is if you require it. But urge? Then I should start philosophizing a little bit about the question of urge. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u25	I hope the word means something. We receive emails from people who, for example, can no longer go to festivals, because they have a small income. Maybe they're thinking, "I'm gonna have to get vaccinated." So that is not an example of vaccination urge for you. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u26	Take a festival like Lowlands. I've been there before. A ticket like that costs about 150 euros. If that becomes €160 or €155 because there is a test, then you're not going to tell me that's why people can't go to such a festival anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u27	We get emails from people with a small income, who say they can't go anywhere if they have to pay for testing all the time. They say, "Well, maybe I should take one of those vaccines." So it's urge for them, but isn't that the case for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u28	Because there is no automatism that everything is free. In the end, it will be paid. Now it's happening because of all of us. In my opinion, there are a lot of parties who have said, perhaps partly rightly, that it costs quite a lot of money, all that testing for access. I also think it costs quite a lot of money. I think it was very good that we've done that lately. Otherwise, we would have had to wait a lot longer until everyone was vaccinated, to make a part of the theatres, stages and small festivals possible again. But I do think it is good not to allow the whole society to pay the costs completely, continuously and for a long time, if at some point it is really a choice whether you still need those tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u29	My last question and comment. The vaccination itself, with all those booster shots at the GGD, also costs a lot of money and the non-vaccines also pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u30	Apart from the fact that they benefit greatly from this, because all vaccinees make sure that the virus can go around much less fast and no longer put pressure on the care, these two Pfizer pricks cost around €50. Of the other vaccines, the costs are even lower. If you sell that against the benefits for society, it's really a very small fraction of what it gets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u31	Thank you. Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I think it would be unwise to introduce the payment already, because I think you'll be driving a split and making a number of events really more difficult for people with a small scholarship. But there is a more important argument if I go along with Mr Paternotte's reasoning. I follow that reasoning for a very large part, because how good is it for people to get a vaccine? Because we see that it protects. But just when you have that in mind and you see that 15% of Dutch people have not been vaccinated and that some of that is because of the lack of information or lack of proper information, is it wise to start saying at this point: we are going to ask for money for it? This brings the last piece of trust that people sometimes still have in the government even further away, because people think: now I'm going to be forced to have me vaccinated. Shouldn't you just be bold enough to give a lot of information, right in those places where people aren't yet reached enough with information? The OMT opinion also points that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u33	I agree with you in part. If you put this into practice, I do think that at that moment you should give everyone the chance to go through the whole process, where you can get the first shot, wait three, four weeks and get the second one and then wait another two weeks. Only then can you say that people have to pay their own contribution. I think you can make it in October. I also think there's a group that can't be vaccinated. You need to see if you can free them from it. That would be reasonable. After all, there are people who, for example, have a donor organ or receive medicines that suppress their immune system. The vaccine does not work with them or it may not be recommended to take. Of course, you don't want those people to pay those costs. I also agree with you that you should do an ultimate push. That is also why I referred to the numbers of vaccination readiness. The Minister tweeted again this morning that it is very high, but that we have not yet been able to give those two shots to anyone who is willing. And then I think, "Yeah, there's a huge hole there." Especially in the case of over 50 people, that can mean that we can prevent a lot of hospitalizations if we can reach those people. In Denmark, for example, all the older people are 50-plussers; of course, those are not older people... all 50-plussers who weren't scheduled, called with the question: is that conscious, did you make that choice or haven't done it yet, are you not coming out and can we help you with something? Maybe that made a difference. I really think that we should look at such options to give people the opportunity to be vaccinated, because that can prevent many hospitalisations and pressure on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u34	With Mr Paternotte, I stand for this information to all those people, so that they can opt for protection for sound reasons. I think it is important that we give the room for that. But I note that Mr Paternotte is already proposing to introduce that payment, without knowing what the effects will be for those groups that have not yet been reached or who have reason not to be vaccinated. Whether Mr Paternotte thinks that reason is valid or not, and whether I think that is a valid reason or not, it doesn't matter. If it puts them at a distance from the government or reduces confidence in the delivery of vaccines, it is questionable whether it is a wise decision for the main objective you formulated from the D66 perspective: as many vaccinations as possible. I can go a long way with that and that's exactly why I think: be careful. The question really is whether these people are being vaccinated with this, yes or no. You're already proposing it without that scientific basis. In any case, I would say: take an intermediate step, explore precisely in the neighbourhoods where vaccinations are left behind or this is a sensible step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u36	I also hear Mrs Bikker say that it should not be free until the end of the day and that at some point you can ask for an amount for it. But I also hear her say: you still have to make an extra effort to reach out to a lot of people and give them that chance. I think that is a very sympathetic argument, and I understand that. But I also think that if you say at some point that there is an end date, that is real to all the other Dutch people who are currently paying for those tests and that it can make people think. In addition, we certainly need to make that ultimate effort to reach more people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u37	Thank you. There are still a few interruptions. Firstly, Mr Van Haga, then Mr Van der Staaij and then Mr Wilders. First of all, Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte talks about a film with all heroes, but in most films there is also a villain. As far as I'm concerned, that role is a bit D66, because he cries crocodile tears about young people and he also mentions the festivals. Those are exactly the two things that I have a high priority for myself. The young people are hardly at risk at corona and the festivals are generally in the open air and there are young people coming. My question is: why don't you just look at the actual risks? They are very low among young people and they are very low at festivals. If you combine that, you can forget all those dystopian unrealities and then we can just get back to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u39	I thought Mr Van Haga was a lot more moderate in recent months, but to call me the villain of the corona film, I'm a little far. I know that Mr Baudet has the idea that the Rockefeller Foundation invented and rolled out the virus, but I hope you do not think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u40	It is not an answer to my question, but to answer your question: no, I do not believe that the Rockefeller Foundation has anything to do with this. Corona is a virus. That could make us all sick. You and I are in perfect health, so the odds of us getting something of it are virtually zero. But it doesn't help young people. You just said in your speech that young people have had an incredibly bad time. Well, that's because of all of them here, not just you. That is the role of villain that I would like to give to all those who have voted for all these measures here. Those kids have been through a lot. We can stop that now, and you can do that, so let's do that. And then about the festivals. Once again, young people are coming to these festivals. They're outdoors. There are hardly any infections there, and if they occur, they take place on young people. As I recall, the IFR is about 0.000003%. So what are we talking about? And if you're going to set up a system where young people still have to pay, I wonder why we don't just look at the risks and stop this nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u41	Of course, it's not true that the virus can't do anything to young people. We saw just after those weekends in the nightlife after which the contagion rates got very fast that suddenly a much younger group ended up in the hospital and partly in intensive care. It is still a very nasty virus, as you yourself have said. It is therefore very good that we then took the opportunity to give many more of those people a chance to be fully vaccinated, which means that the risks are indeed very low. Then you can also use that to indeed make and open much more possible. We are already saying that we do so without any proof of admission for higher education and secondary vocational education. I'm so happy about that. I also hope that after 20 September we can do that in many more places, for those festivals, for nightlife, because people have missed that very much. One reason for limiting this is, of course, that these young people are not only in contact with each other, but are also in contact with many other people. After those peaks of the dance weekends you saw that there was also an increase in other age groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u42	To continue in that mantra: if these young people are infected now, it is probably not so bad at all, because the vaccination rate is now 75% or so. You're very happy about that. All these sick, weak, sick, elderly have been vaccinated; they are protected. Then why focus on young people? I am also pleased that the schools are able to open up a little. There are all limitations to that, like those 75 people. We're in agreement. I'm glad. But why in many places still hinder young people, when the people who need to be protected are protected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u43	The young people I speak to at those introductory weeks say: how wonderful that all this can be done. You have to show me a ticket once in a while, but I really don't think that's a problem; then I can just go back inside and often I don't even have to keep my distance from things that are organized in the outdoors. They can just go back to class later, just to college. For them, a lot of things are back to normal. Of course they say: yes, I would also like to be able to go to a discotheque again. We tried that at the beginning of June. I understand that on the basis of that experience we say: we want to get the ventilation there in order first and we want to make sure that we know how it is developing. But we're going to open it again, of course. What's most helpful about that is that enough people have been vaccinated. So let's call them together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u45	Finally? Okay. Let's not fool each other. The introduction weeks, the KMTs, are not a shadow of what they're supposed to be. I don't know if you're in close contact with those people. I do. This is really a very lean version. The same goes for the discotheques. If young people get infected, what's the point? Just let that go through that population quietly. The number of young people entering the ic is negligible. I know we do not agree, but I ask you once again just to look at the facts and appreciate the statistics. If this affects a very small number of young people, it is negligible. It's so negligible that you don't have to punish the entire population for that. That's my call to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u46	That is why we have always said: put education at the top, look for ways to give more space, use the tickets to make festivals and events possible, like now with those 750 people. That is, of course, for a very large part intended for young people. In this respect, I think it is right for you to draw attention to it. For them, life has been quite limited over the last year and a half. It is another story for a young family with children with a house with a garden as for students in a student room. But we shouldn't pretend the virus doesn't matter to them and they all don't get sick. We can add the sum of lung covid and young people who still come to the hospital. It's okay if we can stop that. We have that opportunity now. Let's make sure we do that for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u48	The SGP does not support Mr Paternotte's proposal. He says it makes people think. I also taste that he says: you know what, let's try to get people with a financial incentive to vaccinate. I think that's actually wrong. There are a lot of practical and fundamental questions to ask. I would like to put a very practical question to Mr Paternotte. He said, "I can't let society pay in full." What period does he think he's talking about? If it starts in October, how long should this special arrangement which you are proposing apply?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u49	According to the OMT recommendation, we can get about 16,000 to 22,000 hospital admissions and about 2,200 to 2,400 intensive care recordings, out of those 1.8 million people who are not immune at the moment in the Netherlands and who have all chosen not to be vaccinated. If you get all that at once, the hospitals will flood. I hope we don't get that all at once. If it is very neatly spread over two years, it may not even have to happen, but you and I also see what happens, for example, in some states in America, where everything was opened at once, when there was too little vaccine. That wouldn't be wise. That's where they're hoarding ventilation equipment again. I saw a video with a gentleman who said: I was with my wife, who has breast cancer, in the hospital; she actually had to stay for four days and needed all kinds of treatments, but after two days she was sent away, because another bed was needed for someone who was not vaccinated and became a corona patient. This is an ethical dilemma which I hope we will be able to avoid in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, the OMT has to note that, if we want to avoid this kind of thing, we will still need some measures in the coming period. If you can limit that to tickets, which are basically open, but which are sometimes asked to show that you have been vaccinated or tested, that seems to me to be a small sacrifice to prevent us from experiencing the same thing we are seeing in too many places in America now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u50	I still taste a viper, because at first the access test law was about to be able to relax with such a test rather than was otherwise possible. When could you relax? When could you abandon measures when the ic occupation was no longer sky-high? Well, September. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In fact, I hear Mr Paternotte now say: you know what, we can ask for these kinds of limited access systems for certain groups or costs for testing, actually for a very long time. Let me get this straight. 'Cause that kind of freaks me out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u51	No, as short as possible, of course. I hope we can agree on that. I was in Denmark with my in-laws this summer and there are now a few dozen people in the hospital. There are a lot of them in the Netherlands. Now Denmark and some smaller country, but also relatively four times as many people are in the hospital with corona. The difference is that in Denmark, 50-plussers have reached just a few more people, that they have received the vaccination rate of 97%, so that indeed only a very small proportion of those 50-plussers can end up in that hospital. That's a difference we need to bridge. As long as we have not done so, the reality is that a lot of people can still get to the hospital. That problem exists in many places in the Netherlands. You've done your best before to bridge that gap. I respect that, too. If you could do that, you wouldn't need that kind of action anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u52	There is still a difference of opinion between D66 and the SGP group when it comes to the focus on vaccination as the only solution. I think that if you go dancing with Janssen every night, you're at greater risk than if you take your precautions in a different way and are very careful in life. Those people are full of them, too. Shouldn't we just look much more at people's total lifestyle, instead of just saying: is this vaccination all-enabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u53	People who hardly come into contact with others do, of course, make a less significant contribution. But I think most Dutch people are connected to others. We're a society, so you want to be able to see each other. I've talked to a lot of people who just found the fact that you can't give someone a hug every once in a while, very complicated and maybe the hardest part about such a pandemic. So, yes, I think we want the society back where those limitations and that inconvenience are no longer there. For that vaccination is indeed the answer, or you let it raid out. But in that case we can see from the figures of the experts who I have not thought of, but we have to deal with them that it can lead to 16,000 to 22,000 hospitalisations, and you cannot eat them all in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u54	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders and then to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u55	I would like to ask the D66 colleague: when will it be ready? You represent a social liberal party, if it's okay, but you look like a communist. What's gonna happen now? We will continue to extend the measures. In the Netherlands 90% of people currently have immunity. There are 200 people on the ic's in the Netherlands. If there is one moment to stop these measures, then it is now. Not only do you say 'we're not stopping', but you also come up with new proposals. You even say that is a hundred percent urge; Mr Van Houwelingen was quite right that people should immediately pay for testing for access. That's urge. The Minister for Health, Mr De Jonge, who is behind me, said it honestly at the press conference last Friday; at least he was. He said: I'm going to charge money for that, because I hope that this moves people who don't want to pay for it to get vaccinated. That's pure urge. When you say as a minister, "I want you to pay, because I hope you'll be inoculated," that's an urge. So when are you gonna stop fooling around with the rules? 200 people are in intensive care. 90% of the Dutch have built up antibodies and immunity. Instead of cutting back, what a liberal party should do, you are just going to come up with additional measures and not respect those who do not want to be pricked, but urge them to pay differently. Stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u56	Popularism is an expensive hobby, because I actually hear Mr Wilders saying that you should offer those tests for free for up to days. But let's be honest. There's no such thing as free. We'll all pay for it. We thought that was very sensible in the past period, because that made it possible to open things earlier. But there comes a time when people have had the choice whether they want to be vaccinated or not. That is indeed a choice, but it is not a non-binding matter. There is nowhere a right that means that all the other Dutch people have to continue to pay for that 15% minority, so that they can continue to do those tests for up to days. I don't understand why Mr Wilders thinks that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u57	My main question is what a liberal, unlike a communist, says when 90% of people have antibodies. That's what you wanted. In part, I have gone along with you; I am not an anti-vaxer. Only 90% of people now have antibodies, either because they have had the disease or because of a vaccine. They've built immunity. That's 90% of the population. 200 people are in intensive care. That's still 200 too many, but there's only 200. And then you don't say we're gonna cut down what any liberal would do, but you say, no, we're gonna take more action, and I'm gonna make you pay. The reason for that is not that people have had the chance. The reason is that last Friday, the Minister of your cabinet said that he is doing so because he hopes that people will be vaccinated. That's urge. In two motions, one by Mr Kuzu and one by me, the Chamber spoke out against coercion, urge and an obligation. So I repeat my question: why do you not join us in abolishing the measures rather than continuing them? And why, as a democrat, are you going against the majority of the Chamber? After all, he says: no urge. So don't pay for the incredibly crazy tests, which I don't want at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u58	I believe that we are abolishing measures, for example for secondary and higher education, which will open everything from childcare to universities from 30 August. That's very important, I think. That's what we're doing. But I am going to give Mr Wilders a mirror, because he wanted to lift all the measures before the summer. Of these people said afterwards: opening those discotheques was too early at that time; that was not smart, because there was not good enough maintenance. If it had been up to you, there wouldn't have been a single entry ticket. Then it would have been much busier there. Then everyone would have come in, including the people who would otherwise have tested positive when testing for access. We'd have had an even bigger outbreak. So yes, you can of course say "we can lift everything now, because 90% of people have antibodies," but I also have to rely on what experts say. They say that what we now have unvaccinated can still lead to enormous pressure on care and 22,000 hospitalizations. So the question that Mr Wilders really needs to answer is: do you know better than RIVM can; then do we have a debate on this or have you not heard it yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u59	RIVM, or the Cabinet, with your support, is taking the wrong measures. Of course, we were already in the summer, with these figures, in favour of phasing out the measures. That's what we are now. Half of those mega-infectious moments in discotheques or at festivals that were covered, as we saw in Utrecht, was due to a completely wrong ventilation. There's no way in hell that's gonna help. You can ask for tickets whatever you want. You get the ticket not only when you've been tested, but also when you've been vaccinated. As you know, also vaccinees can still have and transmit the virus, okay, less than non-vaccines. It is therefore a total sham safety that you are creating and also a false safety that you are instantly making people pay for. I say let it open, abolish those measures. There's only 200 people on the ICUs. 90% of the people... come on. If 90% immunity in a country doesn't allow you to lift your measures, what are you doing? And finally get that ventilation. Make sure that if you hold festivals, that ventilation is good. Good ventilation, to prevent these infections per aerosols, is a thousand times better than the false safety you want by letting people with a vaccine in or with a test they have to pay for. That's the wrong way. Clear the Netherlands. It is time to act liberal and shake off communism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u60	We can achieve that freedom very quickly. I think it is very good what Mr Wilders has done by saying not only 'I will be vaccinated and I can recommend others', but also when it is crazy what others say about it. That was very good. Or as Mr. Wilders would say with his Limburg tongue trap: crazy. But what he does do is actually say, "RIVM can have a whole story, but I know better. Because if you just ventilate a little bit, we can lift everything and then everything will be fine." If it were, I'd be right in front of it. As far as we are concerned, we will return these freedoms as soon as possible. Vaccination is the best way to do this. This means that after 20 September we can lift the 1.5 meters, that we can make all the meetings and festivals possible again and get back those freedoms that I think the Netherlands needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u61	I think what Mr Paternotte is doing is a bit easy. He got the question what exactly is the urge and then he actually shrugged his shoulders: yes, yes, I don't know exactly what urge is. We are dealing with a cabinet that actually says the whole coronapandemic: no vaccination pressure and no vaccination urge. Mr Paternotte is the corona spokesperson of the second party of the Netherlands. Then it seems to me that he knows very well what vaccination urge is. That is why my question is whether Mr Paternotte recognizes the fact that, apart from what you think of it, in substance, with the cabinet's proposal that unvaccinated people should be denied access to certain institutions, and that we should also be paying for a possible test, in any case, in any case sneaking into vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u62	Ask for your own contribution. I think the SP was leading the way in naming that it's most expensive, that testing for access. I also think it is good to realise that it is not free, and you will. Drang. What I can imagine is what you're seeing right now, for example, in America, a lot of companies say: you have to get vaccinated, otherwise you're gonna lose your job. Then you still have the choice to say, "I won't let you vaccinate me," but then there's a lot of consequences for you. That's kind of hard for me to say. I think that's a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u63	That is a good example, but not an answer to my question. My question to Mr Paternotte was whether he would at least acknowledge that, with this proposal, the cabinet, which has always said 'no vaccination pressure and no vaccination urge', is heading in that direction. Do you recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u64	No. I just think it's true what I heard the Minister say: vaccination is a free choice. That's it in the Netherlands. I think that what we see in France, a vaccination obligation for healthcare professionals, is not necessary in the Netherlands. The vaccination rate is high. Caregivers were in line just because they had to do that job unprotected for a year with a lot of corona patients. I guess you don't have to say it's a free choice that's completely non-binding, because it has an effect on others. If you don't get vaccinated, it doesn't just affect yourself. That also means you're more likely to infect someone else. Look at the kind of stories you must have read, too, like the Volkskrant had the other day. That was about someone saying: based on things I saw on Facebook, I had too much disinformation and that's why I didn't do it. He ended up in intensive care and on his way there he called family and friends: please do it. It's something you do not only for yourself, but also for someone else. There's gonna be a responsibility. There doesn't have to be no strings attached.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u65	This is exactly the point, I think. What Mr Paternotte is doing now is to give an example of how to better inform people, to do everything possible to ensure that indeed the SP Group hopes that as many people as possible will eventually be vaccinated. 'Cause that's the way out of that corona pandemic. But exactly what you're saying now, isn't it at odds with ruling out a group right now? Mr Van der Staaij and others have already said that we do not yet know what the effects are. Vaccination is going well right now. However, D66 is already taking such a bold position, and actually the cabinet is doing the same. I still don't have an answer to the question. Yes, you say that's not a vaccination urge, but of course we're going there in this way. Surely you say in your answer exactly what else might be an option, namely to inform people much better? By smashing it down like that right now, I think you're taking a big risk, too. You run the very high risk that people who are already skeptical of science and of vaccination will drift even further. Then as a society, Mr. Paternotte, we're farther from home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u66	No, it's about something else. It's about something we all pay now. So the taxpayer pays. If you say it's reasonable for people to make their own contribution to that, you say it because people themselves benefit from such a test. If they do that test, they can go to a festival or theatre. If people want to do that every day, that is of course very good, but then the whole society has to pay it in full every time. With your own contribution you say that there is also a small contribution from yourself, because you are the one who can enter in certain places. It's not that crazy. Everything doesn't have to be free until the end of the day, because it's not free; we all pay it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u67	In Mr Paternotte's world, that may not be so crazy. But Mr Paternotte also mentioned an entrance ticket of €160, I think. He said: well, then it costs €170, what difference does it make? I think that says a lot about the world in which Mr Paternotte lives. I listened carefully to what the cabinet said at the press conference. They were talking about cultural institutions, but also the catering industry was mentioned. It means a lot to a lot of people if they were going to have to pay a substantial amount of money to get access to institutions, to restaurants. I'm gonna say that a little bit further away from the sloping plane that we might be able to reach. Because then what is and what isn't? What exactly is essential and what not? But I sense the ease with which Mr Paternotte says here: well, €160 for a ticket or €170, we can all pay. This, I think, says a lot about his world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u68	I didn't say that. As an example, I mentioned a ticket for the Lowlands festival. I think one of those tickets costs about that amount, but I haven't been there in a long time. Oh, I hear the price is a little higher. Well, then I still have an estimate from the time I used to go there myself. Suppose you add $10 to that. I said I don't think that's gonna be the reason for people to say, well, then I can't go there anymore. It doesn't generally work that way. These are meetings, at least in the cabinet's proposal, where more than 75 people go in. I do not know how often Mrs Marijnissen is at such meetings. Of course, the SP has quite a lot of members and big meetings where there are undoubtedly a lot of people together, even though at some point they will go on the streets and go by the doors. But I don't think there are so many people who go to a place every night where more than 75 people are together, asking for those tickets there. So no, I think Mrs. Marijnissen is making it much bigger than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u69	But the point is, of course, that it is a much larger threshold for low-income people than for high-income people. But that's not what my question is about. My question is whether D66 has or suspects that its own contribution will also increase the vaccination rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u70	No, I don't. Most countries that have systems like us, such as Denmark and Germany, are now also thinking about how to proceed with this. I think they have already said in Germany: in October we are going to ask for our own contribution. But of course that hasn't happened yet, so you don't know exactly what the effect is. But I think its importance also lies in reasonableness and proportionality. Now we're all paying for it. It would be a good idea to bring a little more balance to that by also making a contribution to the person who benefits from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u71	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As many as 94% of 18- to 75-year-olds in the Netherlands have antibodies against the coronavirus. The Cabinet letter says that it is estimated that only 1.8 million people in our country are not immune. So that's about 10% of the population. That means 90% of the population is immune. However, the cabinet maintains measures such as the 1.5 meters and extends the restrictive measures for the catering and events. That's insane. Similarly, the current burden on the ic's no longer justifies any measures. There's another 200 corona patients on the ICUs. Of course, these are still 200 too many, but no measure is acceptable with that number. Look at England. There, corrected for the number of inhabitants, are now about as many people on the ic's as here, while there are no more restrictions on freedom there. And if the cabinet still thinks that care will not be able to cope in the future without measures, why hasn't there been a substantial investment in health care in the past year? Why haven't hundreds of ICU places with staff been added by now? Where are the concrete measures relating to ventilation? In the meantime, 75% of the contaminations occur in the home situation. It is therefore very important to finally regulate the ventilation properly. That's not what you do with Prime Minister Rutte's clumsy remark to air for 15 minutes every day. At least 15 minutes an hour is what is needed, says Professor Bluyssen of Delft University of Technology. Mr. Chairman. In the previous plenary debate in July, a PVV motion was adopted that says that the government must make ventilation a priority, a top priority. Top priority means that in addition to good advice for the right ventilation at home, we also need to invest in better ventilation in the hospitality industry, in schools, in businesses and in shops, directly with the use of CO meters. When? When is that finally gonna happen? Mr. Chairman. As of September 20th, the cabinet wants to require a corona ticket from anyone who wants to visit the catering, events, cinemas and the like if more than 75 people can arrive. This applies both inside and outside. Apart from the fact that it is nonsensical in the air, it is undesirable and unnecessary at all. It is undesirable because 90% of the population already has antibodies, and it is completely arbitrary not to do so at less than 75, but at more than 75. It is unnecessary because good ventilation within the only real solution is to prevent this further application of that terrible test society. Moreover, I have just said it in an interruption debate with my colleague from D66................................................................................................................................................... So don't. Mr. Chairman. Why did the Prime Minister say twice in one week last week that he doesn't think a vaccination obligation is necessary at the moment? Why, Mr. Prime Minister, did you always say "at this time"? Is there a time imaginable when you do think a vaccination obligation is necessary? And, if so, in what situation? Mr. Chairman. Let me be crystal clear. For PVV, vaccination is excellent and certainly helpful in the fight against corona. But it must always, but always, be voluntary and without any kind of compulsion or urge. The removal of free testing to move people into vaccination is indeed a form of urge and therefore unacceptable. If the Minister does not move on that, I will refer a ruling to the Chamber in a second term in a motion to delete it. I would point out to the Cabinet that a majority of this Chamber was not only opposed to vaccination but also turned away from compulsion and urge. This is reflected in motions adopted by myself and Mr Kuzu on this matter. Madam President. Finally, I ask for a firm commitment from the Prime Minister that compulsory vaccination is never an option in any situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u73	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Molen of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Special to be back in your midst, after being unable to be there for a few months. Also exciting, I have to say quite honestly, but let's go with the goat. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet outlined an optimistic perspective on Friday. In secondary and higher education, young people can return to education without restrictions for the first time in a year and a half. As far as the CDA is concerned, it is right that the cabinet should give this priority. At the same time, we ask how the cabinet keeps its finger on the wrist, because we have also learned that from previous enthusiastic steps. Can the cabinet indicate when there will be low threshold vaccination sites in MBO and higher education? How has Mr Van den Berg's motion been taken into account, on the scaling up of mobile pop-up buses and pop-up locations where a vaccine can be retrieved without an appointment? The cabinet didn't have an optimistic message for everyone on Friday. Entrepreneurs in the event sector and the nighthoreca are hard hit. Can the Prime Minister state the state of play at the Complementary Meeting Events? When will it become clear who can claim it? The cabinet has previously indicated that the generic aid package will stop after the third quarter. Is the cabinet still planning this? How does the cabinet see the support from 1 October? If generic aid stops, will specific aid remain possible? When does the Cabinet intend to take decisions on this matter? Mr. Chairman. After a slow start, the vaccination programme in the Netherlands has become a success. We are at the top of the lists within Europe, and that is worth a compliment towards the GPS, the GPs and others who have played a role in this. However, 1.8 million Dutch people have not yet been protected. What is the government going to do to convince as many people as possible? That's a tough job. What is the government doing to remove unnecessary concerns from people? How do we ensure that there is a safe environment for people who cannot be vaccinated for legitimate medical reasons? We won't be safe until the whole world is safe. What is the government's objective to contribute to vaccinations worldwide by the end of the year through COVAX? And what does this possibly mean for the budget for development cooperation? We rightly do not have a vaccination obligation, but the freedom to refuse a vaccine does not mean that this choice is voluntary, as the VWS Minister rightly stated in the press conference. We are now entering a new phase and that raises new questions. The cabinet also says the necessary in the letter, for example on the rights and duties of vaccinees and non-vaccines. The ministers write that they are going to discuss these kinds of questions with external experts. The question at the CDA Group is whether some examples can be given of which specific issues are presented. Which experts are involved? As far as we are concerned, it is a broad group of people who can share these dilemmas. According to the CDA, this new phase, in which anyone who wants to be vaccinated, is also the time to think about how we are going into the near future. Of course, we are all opposed to a permanent surveillance society; such a society where you have to show everywhere you go, or at least in many places, that you have been tested for example. That is actually what we want to go to, and indeed it should not be a permanent situation. We don't want a permanent surveillance society. I therefore ask the Cabinet, now that testing is being used more widely, for example in access to cafes or in other places, whether the Chamber can see how we are going to phase it out step by step, when the situation so permits. Then we can get back to some of the old normal and then we can normalize the situation between people who have been vaccinated and people who for some reason have not chosen to do so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u75	There is an interruption by Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u76	To begin with, it is good that Mr Van der Molen is back. But now my question. Your group, unlike Mr Paternotte's group, has in the past supported our motion on 'no compulsion or urge'. You also heard the Minister of Health tell you last Friday that he hopes that people will be vaccinated if you let them pay for those access tests. That's actually why he does that. Do you agree with me that this is not a compulsion, but a form of urge? Then you say, "Listen, they're free now, but I'm gonna have you pay for the access tests right now, 'cause I hope you're gonna get vaccinated to keep it from costing you money. Do you agree with me that that's a form of urge? If you agree with me, do you agree, as a supporter of my motion, that that is not really possible? Because we have agreed with each other, at least with a majority of the Chamber, that we do not apply an urge to people to be vaccinated, however desirable it may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u77	What the Minister has wanted to say by expressing hope... I can understand the hope that we can convince even more people to be vaccinated. That is wise, or as the Pope said today, that is a sign of love. I think that's right. It's solidarity. But what the Minister meant, I'm sure you'll ask the Minister as well. That was in your contribution, too. We are as CDA against a vaccination obligation. Drang is a difficult point; I have also heard Mr Paternotte say that. But if I had to fill that out, I would think of a possibility that the cabinet fortunately does not choose, namely that only vaccination would give access to a festival and that an approval test that shows that you are not infected would not be an option. Now that offers people who have not been vaccinated for any reason, an alternative. If that were to go away, I'd think that was an urge measure. I have looked closely at what my colleague Mr van den Berg said in previous debates on this point. She has always maintained that a contribution of her own to, for example, an access test or a travel test is reasonable; I think it is. As far as I am concerned and as far as the CDA is concerned, it must be a reasonable amount, because then the discussion is also: how, for example, do people who have a small wallet deal with that? Do I, by definition, see an urge in that? No, but I do see it in other measures, which the cabinet fortunately does not choose. But I do think that the size of that amount should be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u78	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u79	I understand your reasoning, and thank you for your serious answer. Only, the difference is that not a new measure is being presented, but that those tests are currently free of charge. That's the starting point. We are not at all, as you may know, for that whole test society, for that test for access, for the reason that we have often indicated. But they're here now and they're free. So now people don't have to pay for it. If you then switch from free to pay, while the minister says "I hope that pushes people to the choice of being vaccinated," it is a form of urge. It is not an instrument that is introduced for the first time and you say: we are going to ask for a reasonable amount of money. It is now free and then has to be paid for, with the Minister's explanation that he hopes that people will be vaccinated. I hope you will think again about the fact that this might be a form of urge and that it would be better not to do so. Because like you, I think it's okay for people to make their own choices about getting vaccinated. If they do not want to do so, they should not be forced to do so and should not be forced to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr Wilders makes a very specific reference to the remarks made by the VWS Minister; that is his interpretation. It would be reasonable, at least from the outset, to ask people for their own contribution if everyone had the opportunity to be vaccinated, and we know that large sums of money are involved. But I add that as a CDA member: "reasonable" is therefore a reasonable amount. Because I understand well that I have heard that with others too, that people with a small wallet would feel that at some point at certain amounts. That's gonna be pretty hard to capture. I am also very pleased that the cabinet has taken on the task of further reflection. We'll discuss that. But I understand your point that it may put pressure on people. That is why I say that it is reasonable to pay with it, but I do plead for a reasonable amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u81	Mr. Van der Molen... I need to see how the microphone works here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u82	You must stand on it with your foot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mr Van der Molen was right to draw attention to the fact that we still have a lot of people to reach. He's from Friesland himself, where now there's a pilot with pharmacists helping to vaccinate. If pharmacists would do that, of course you have the opportunity to walk in, get medical advice and decide to be vaccinated there. Would he consider it a good idea to see if the pharmacists can actually play that role in the coming period, to ensure that we are fine-meshed, for people who just want to walk in, create the opportunity to still get a shot?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u84	I agree with Mr Paternotte that a lot of very good plans often originate in Friesland. So in that respect, it would be 1-0 for this pilot. I know that it is successful and I also know that the pharmacists are naturally willing to play their part. I cannot fully assess the obstacles that this is encountering and the reason why, for example, this would not be easy to roll out nationwide. That is, I think, a question which you are quite right to ask, and perhaps this was an invitation to say that you have made a good suggestion. Because at the moment when we can also use the low-threshold of pharmacists to vaccinate as many people as possible, I would not want to rule it out in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u85	Thank you. Head's off. Once again, welcome back, your presence here feels quite natural again. And good luck to you! I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen of the SP for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of the summer things went badly wrong. We had the "dancing with Janssen" debacle and the number of infections went up very quickly. Now we later saw in the media that the cabinet might have known that before. So my question to the cabinet is: how exactly is that? And also: what have they learned from that to ensure that this can no longer go so wrong in the future? What I think makes everyone very happy is that after the summer holidays education can be "just" open again, so to speak. I think everyone agrees that it has actually taken far too long for our young people. Well, it is true that the OMT says: wait a little longer. This has to do with the expectation that a larger proportion of our young people will be fully vaccinated at a later date, which is not yet the case. So my question to the cabinet is also: how exactly is vaccination of our young people lagging behind schedule? Do they have a good picture of that? What do they intend to do about it at the moment? Would it be an idea, for example, when we see in different places that educational institutions say: we are putting a mobile location on the doorstep, to agree together that we are just going to organize that all educational institutions are going to do "mbo's', "hbo's', "academia', just call it "s', for example, in that first week of the school year? Mr. Chairman. The elections were already five months ago. We've had a missionary cabinet for five months, well, actually seven months, and the formation isn't making much progress yet. We would be getting a taste of a coalition agreement by mid-August, which is about now as a Chamber. In the meantime, we have been told that for the time being we have to do it with a - what was it - plan for a start on a possible coalition agreement. Well, no one knows exactly what that is. We do not yet know the content of it; some here do, at least we do not. But at the same time we see that the cabinet does what it wants. We were talking this morning about the three Members of Parliament who have just been added to the cabinet team while the Constitution does not allow that at all. We have just had the debate on Afghanistan in which the Demissionary Cabinet does not take an elected chamberal motion seriously. But we also see it with other major problems. The people who are still waiting in Groningen for a solution, the people in the premium affair, you name it. But also the people in care. We have talked about this many times in these debates. Investing in care cannot wait any longer. We also believe that the cabinet is taking an irresponsible risk, because at the moment when there are already such large deficits in care, it is also a risk that people will simply not be able to get the proper care they need, simply because there are too few staff. That is why today we would like to call once again on the outgoing cabinet: you are a missionary, but the Chamber is not. The House voted in a majority a long time ago that salaries in health care should be raised, also in order to ensure that additional colleagues are added, which is very much needed. Don't wait any longer. Make sure that's settled for Prince's Day at least. Finally, the corona certificate. We have, of course, been talking about this for a while. The SP really has a lot of questions about that. If you look at the period when the cabinet would like to introduce this, we're actually talking about a month. I hope the idea is that we can get rid of all the measures from 1 October. This would then be for the month of October. From 1 November onwards, we could get rid of all the measures. Is that in proportion to each other? This is quite apart from the discussion, which we have just had, about making people pay for a test. We are organizing a division with this. We may also organise a hypocrisy with the introduction of a corona certificate. That's not what the SP wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u87	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mr. Chairman. Crisis communication is, say what you know, say what you do, and repeat it. What the cabinet does all the time is wishful thinking. Why are we already hitting loosenings, when the Prime Minister himself repeatedly points out that there are still great uncertainties? The virus remains with us for the time being, the r arrives in the month, the R factor will rise again and the delays in care are still not eliminated, as we also notice in our own family circle. Some of the population has not yet been able to vaccinate. And we're taking a big risk opening the schools. My question is therefore: why is there not yet a detailed road map? This is always referred to, but if we ask specific questions on the basis of which figures are now being sent, then the answer is that the research needs to be re-examined or that it has not yet been carried out. Opening up education was our first, second and third priorities. That is why this opening is a relief for all students who have not received physical education for so long. But I do have some questions. The cabinet explicitly chooses to open the schools earlier than the OMT has advised. Can the cabinet say again why it hasn't waited three weeks? Have any additional measures been envisaged, such as temporary wearing of a mask or other measures? A further 100 million have been allocated to ventilation, but there is still no plan of action. I specifically ask the Minister of Education. Does hybrid education also remain possible for medically vulnerable students, who cannot be obliged to be vaccinated? Doesn't it make sense, then, not to have to send them to education at this vulnerable stage? I also put this question to the Minister for Education. A maximum of 75 students in a classroom may put the tests that need to be taken in the short term at risk for MBO institutions, colleges and universities. Larger complexes, e.g. RAI, can accommodate more students, where the distance of 1.5 meters can be guaranteed. Doesn't it make sense to drop the maximum of 75 students for these complexes? I will table a motion on this. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then testing for access. Many entrepreneurs feel unfairly treated. They believe that double standards are being applied. There are 75,000 visitors for racing on Zandvoort in a cozy deltatatje. Be careful! Oh, but no Lowlands. "Hand-in-hand comrades" at the football stadium, but no Parade. It's not always good to explain why one can and the other can't. And later also the plan to always require access tests for 75 visitors or more. Whether it's the Luden terrace or the Valkenberg hotel restaurant, you'll always need a corona ticket or a test. Is that still in proportion to each other? That is precisely why we are voting against, among other things, the legislation on testing for access. We are now also on the terrace without such a ticket. Wouldn't it be advisable to develop much more focused policies on this? I'm rounding up. I would like to know when the 20 million vaccines for COVAX will be available. Can the cabinet give us a timetable? Discussions about urges and the imposition of testing will only increase in the coming period. In the letter, the cabinet already hints at experts who need to advise on these issues. I think it's wise to have these ethical issues. What is urge, what is compulsion, and how far do we go? In the next letter, the House will be informed of the good story. That's really essential. I do not agree with a number of things, but we must at least have an open mind. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u89	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u90	Mr President, thank you. Rarely has the value of education become as clear as in the past year and a half. I have also rarely heard students and students say that they really wanted to go back to school or to college. That shows the value of meeting and physical education. The corona crisis has been severed by young people. Some have dropped out, but many young people also suffered from social isolation. Together with a number of other parties, we have always said that education should be an absolute top priority in reopening society. However, I would also like to comment on the implementation, because the OMT warns. It says, if we open it already, it will lead to cluster contamination. That raises the next question. How does the Minister intend to prevent these cluster infections from occurring? Are there any other measures that can be taken? Mrs Kuik mentioned mouth caps, but I am also thinking, for example, of quarantine advice for infected roommates. Shouldn't we be maintaining that temporarily? Mr. Chairman. Not all students are relieved, because there are also students who, for example because of their health or because of a disability, benefited greatly from online education. I would like to ask the Minister what has now been arranged for this group. And what has been arranged in terms of ventilation, including in higher education? We are not really protected from the corona virus until the rest of the world is vaccinated. That moment is waiting for a while. This is partly because of the wealthy countries. The United States, France and Germany have already decided to inject a third vaccine, the so-called booster vaccine, in the short term. While these countries are moving to this unnecessary vaccine, the vaccination rate in low-income countries is only 1.5%. It is not for nothing that the World Health Organisation makes an urgent appeal to rich countries. She says: postpone that booster vaccine until the end of September. I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees with us that a global high vaccination rate is crucial to counter variants. If so, are we going to respond to the World Health Organisation's call? Then something about the free testing. We are a little concerned about the cabinet's proposal to ask for our own contribution for testing for access. I understand that these concerns affect more colleagues. Of course, we think it is of the utmost importance that as many people as possible should be vaccinated, but this remains an individual choice that should not depend on someone's wallet. That's why I have a question for the cabinet. Where does this intention come from? Is there an independent advice on the basis? When are we gonna hear more about this? I would like to point out that we do not think that this own contribution should be requested. Finally, I have a few questions about events. First of all, on the guarantee scheme. During the previous debate, at the request of the outgoing Prime Minister, we held a motion in which we asked that not only organisers of events should be entitled to the guarantee scheme, but also caterers, artists, security officers, etc. They also lack large revenues. At that time it was promised that the motion would be included in the elaboration. We also read about it in the cabinet letter. However, we are receiving signals from people that this is not the case. We hear from artists, for example, that some organizers only pay 60% to their subcontractors. I would like to ask Mr Rutte whether he agrees with me that this does not correspond to what he said in the previous debate. I would like to ask Minister Van Engelshoven how she looks at this issue. My final question is about Formula One in Zandvoort. I can't explain very well why this event, which in many ways looks just like a festival, can continue. There is a campground, where a lot of people sit together and there are also tickets sold to people who come to network. Alcohol is also being given, in short, in all respects it looks like an event in the cultural sector. Events can't go on there, and we can do this. I'd like to ask the Cabinet what the difference is between the two. Why can't one go on and the other go on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u91	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The MBOs, colleges and universities are finally opening up! There is now finally an end to this time of far too long distance learning. For many people it is really a huge relief that physical education is again possible for them. I can see it at home. I have a son and a daughter who study, and they're really almost literally jumping to get a real study right away. That education could actually have been open earlier if the cabinet had set other priorities. Not first fill the football stadiums, but first give educational institutions more space and take students and students out of that isolation. The Party for Animals has always said: first the education is open safely and then the rest. But the cabinet chose differently. Anyway, now higher education is opening up and that is a really good decision. Of course, this reopening also creates a great responsibility. Is it possible for educational institutions to provide a safe environment? More specifically, what is organised for students and staff with vulnerable health? Do the educational institutions need additional resources to ensure a safe study and work environment for these groups? What is the government's commitment to this? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. With the opening up of education, we are taking a certain risk and therefore the cabinet must be extremely reluctant to allow irresponsible relaxation. The OMT also warns that further relaxation will take place until the end of September or mid-September. We shouldn't start stacking risk. But we do. Look at the football stadiums, where there is actually no maximum number of visitors. 20,000 or more can and that would be because there are fixed seats. But at a goal everyone falls around each other's necks and that's hosted, singing and celebrating jumping. But then those fixed seats would be a farce, wouldn't they? I would like to hear from the Minister. And then Formula One. Mrs Westerveld has already mentioned it. The cabinet decided that Formula 1 in Zandvoort could also continue. That's incomprehensible. That decision fell in the same week when the IPCC gave code red for the climate crisis. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Does he know we're in a very serious climate crisis? Does he know we're in the middle of a nitrogen crisis? Does the Prime Minister know we're in a biodiversity crisis? And does he also know that Formula 1 is negative for nature, for biodiversity and for the climate? And if he knows that, how can he let this Formula One festival continue? And why is there a campsite organized? It's not a festival, is it? Even with fixed seats, no more than 750 people are allowed to attend a festival. Put that in front of those 70,000 people who get to come to Formula One every day. That happens on full trains. The NS says they can handle 10,000 passengers per hour. But De Parade in Amsterdam is not going through because of too high a risk of traffic between people. 70,000 people a day to a multiple-day spectacle, a very polluting spectacle, can do so, but more than 750 people can't go to a cultural performance. How the hell is that compatible? From one big fossil consumer to another: the plane. There often appear to be more infected persons on board than was thought. 36% of flights from Amsterdam to Canada had one or more infected persons on board, four times as much as was assumed. That will also apply to other flights. How does the cabinet explain the difference? What action will the cabinet take to limit the chance that we will import new infections and new variants in this way? Finally, in my last few sentences, I would like to make a few points about civil rights. Is the cabinet really planning to extend the Corona Act after September 1st? When's it coming to the room? What does it mean that immunity decreases step by step in the case of vaccinees? I read a 6% reduction every two months with the Pfizer vaccine. This means that the differences between vaccinees and unvaccines continue to decrease. Does the cabinet take this into account in cabinet policy, for example, in the case of tickets? When did you say you weren't vaccinated? Does the cabinet take into account the activity that is decreasing? Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u93	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, students can go back into that classroom, into the benches, into the schools. Oh, that's good. Thousands of students have been in their rooms since last spring. It is true that it is still subject to restrictions, but my group shares the urgency of this cabinet to remove the restrictions as far as possible, especially for higher education and MBO, and to reopen the schools from the beginning of the school year. There are risks, because this group is also the least protected by vaccination. That is precisely why protective measures matter. That is why I have a number of questions. Is the ventilation in MBO and higher education in order? How does the Minister know? Will smaller settings be able to set up a test street with a GGD? Is that what the Secretary of State has in mind? Do institutions know where they can go if they fail to set up such a test street or set up educational space safely or at least meet the ventilation requirement? Mr. Chairman. Do students with disabilities or vulnerability have the possibility of online education? I agree with Mrs Kuik's questions. The cabinet response says that there will be a practical hand delivery on ventilation by a party to be determined. To be honest, that sounds a lot too poachy, because the schools are already opening up in the north, at least the MBOs. When will this practical hand-out be ready? Is it there before 30 August, so schools can actually work with it? Mr. Chairman. Then vaccinate it. We can see that it's working on all the numbers. People get less sick and less sick, despite a heavier variant. But every shot counts. That's what the OMT says. In response to the OMT advice, the Minister preached during the press conference on payment for testing, as a stick to drive people towards vaccination. I find that unwise, in principle, for people with a small scholarship who give you just as much freedom of choice, and also practical, because does that stick work or does it harden the mistrust? Is trust in a government that gives you freedom to make decisions? I believe that the cabinet should take this element into account before making such a choice at all. So what is freedom and what kind of society do we want to be? For the Christian Union group, it is important that we avoid a division. All Dutch people must be able to participate in public life. It is up to the government and experts to inform and convince people about the content and the importance of vaccination. In the end, it is a matter of its own consideration where no compulsion or urge must take place. This Chamber has made that clear. That is why my group has reservations about the introduction of a payment obligation for people who have not been vaccinated. I ask the cabinet to respond to these concerns and also to deal with the consequences for the group that cannot be vaccinated. In the current letter, I miss the development of legislation and regulation for the new phase, a precise explanation of why and until when restrictions on freedoms are needed. I am referring not to a date, but to data. When we talk about legislation, I am surprised at the cabinet's intention to proceed with the law on the closure of private and public places. How does the cabinet justify a new restriction of fundamental rights at a stage of the epidemic, which is precisely aimed at the scaling down of restrictive measures? The figures are good and yet the cabinet continues with a legislative proposal that limits further. Mr. Chairman. My final point is international. This is seen by the greatest suffering that will take place in the coming months in other places in the world, countries where there is no money and no possibility for vaccinations. For mutants of the virus, it's also bad news. In the coming weeks, the Health Council will advise on a possible booster vaccine in the Netherlands and the government will also take the decision. I urge the Minister to include the international context and the WTO's advice, because it is precisely here that it is said: please, make sure that we deal with the vaccine shortage in the poor countries before we think about boosters. I would ask the Minister to address this aspect. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u95	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u96	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. We live in one big farce: the covidk air. We see day in, day out of the corona story falling apart little by little. We stand by and look at it and act like nothing's going on. It reminds me of the Fyra, the disaster train so acclaimed by the NS when the pieces literally fell off. The story that we are told is no longer internally consistent. Vaccines would be the way out of this crisis. We heard from Pfizer himself a few weeks ago that the vaccines gradually become powerless and that regularly so-called booster shots will be needed. So vaccination doesn't end. Big pharma's happy about it. This while overcoming a natural infection according to a study in Nature, makes someone very long, possibly even lifelong, immune, a finding that was confirmed in recent research. Why are recovery certificates valid for only six months, when a vaccination passport has an unlimited period of validity? What's the logic of this? The Prime Minister said testing is pointless if you don't have any complaints, but we're going to have to test for access everywhere. Vaccinates, if infected with the delta variant, are the variant that is now dominant in our country, as contagious according to the American CDC as unvaccined. However, the unvaccinated people will have to be tested and the vaccinees will not have to be tested. How is this consistent with each other? Vaccines have to wear oral diapers because they can infect others, but they do not need to be tested because they have been vaccinated, etcetera etcetera. Every logic is missing. It's like we're on a crazy path that we can't get out of. This week, New Zealand is going after one! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! In a century, historians will look back on this period with bewilderment and horror and wonder what the hell possessed us. A bit like we see today's witch persecution in Salem. The disruption that creates lockdowns, economically, physically and psychologically, will be pressing on us for years to come. In the meantime, and this is a great deal of concern to us, it seems that those who have managed to maintain their common sense will be blamed for all of this by the non-vaccinators, because this autumn, the coronalogs require that everything is locked up again. And yes, even if it lacks all the ground for this: the blame, we shall see, is laid on the non-vaccines. They are forced into a vaccine, while very sinister the minister continues to deny it. According to him, it's not an urge for someone to pay for access every time, but an incentive. I have been trying for months to find out when, according to the government, there is a need for vaccination and yet I do not get an answer. Quite specifically, according to the Minister, is there or is there not a need for vaccination in paid tests for access? Yes or no? And if that is not the case: when is there a vaccination urge, according to the Minister? Can the Minister give one concrete hypothetical example of vaccination urge? Or does it not exist and apparently the word has no meaning? Then why is the Minister using the word? And when is vaccination coercion going to happen? For example, if someone is tied to a chair by force and injected? Or, according to the Minister, is this an offer you can't refuse? It will be clear: all corona measures can and must be lifted immediately as far as FVD is concerned. Freedom, privacy, physical integrity, freedom of expression, independent justice, our individual sovereignty: it is all at stake with corona. We are moving towards a situation of medical apartheid and must free ourselves from this totalitarian nightmare as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u97	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Marijnissen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u98	I have a brief question for Mr Van Houwelingen. Your party leader said this week, "I'm going to read it out for a moment "that vaccination is not for public health, but to gain access to the human body and thus to gain total control over people, because a microchip in your body takes control over your whole life. Does Mr Van Houwelingen or Mr Baudet at that time have had too much to drink or what inspires him to bring these things into the world? How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u99	The point we want to make is that there is no end to those vaccines. There's gonna be a third, a fourth vaccine. Measures are being rolled out over and over again. We'll have a corona app later. We're in a story, let me just put it this way, that's pervasive and doesn't stop. So, yeah, you can think through it. Maybe it ends there. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u100	"Who knows"? If you read Mr. Baudet's Twitter thread, he says that Corona is one big conspiracy anyway. Of course, it was all conceived by the Rockefeller Foundation and the World Economic Forum. It does lead to everything. Even Black Lives Matter he brought in and indeed, in the end everyone has a chip in their body and that is all because we are now vaccinating against corona. Does Mr Van Houwelingen believe that too or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u101	What do you mean, "a conspiracy"? You have to specify it. You put words in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u102	I give Mr Paternotte a chance to explain his question. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u103	When you say that the corona virus was conceived by people who want to achieve a great goal, namely the great reset, in which the whole earth is changed by ultimately controlling everyone with chips in their bodies, which, according to Mr Baudet, even has to do with Black Lives Matter and with everything: that is my definition of a plot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u104	If you think we're...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u105	Are you done with your explanation? Then I'll give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u106	The question I just asked, and I would like an answer to, is whether Mr Van Houwelingen also thinks that the coronavirus is indeed invented in that way and is being rolled out by people to serve society and the world and to ensure that everyone will have a chip in their body, or that he will go a little less deep into that rabbit hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u107	If you think we think there are people in a smoky room somewhere who think "let's think of a virus and see how we can roll it out all over the world," I say, "No, we don't think so." We do think it is linked to other discourses, especially the climate discourse by the way. Think of the book "COVID-19. The great reset, which the Prime Minister didn't read, but which he thought was very good. That book shows that very clearly. So there's more to it. For the next few months, we're gonna see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u108	Thank you, Mr. Van Houwelingen. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see a pattern, a pattern where many countries around us, when confronted with challenges and threats, respond with "all hands on deck," whether climate, education or corona. Unfortunately, that does not apply to the Netherlands. We're reacting stoic. We count ourselves rich with what we have now, but in the meantime we are faced with a desperate lack of ambition to secure a prosperous future. Scientists have been telling us for decades that our climate is not going well, but the Netherlands is dangling at the bottom of the lists when it comes to renewable energy, for example. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to our education, although fortunately it is now being reopened. We are still standing at a 16th place in the OECD countries. An embarrassing sixteenth place, to be understood. A quarter of our young people are low-literate and the largest party in our country still dares to claim that the educational glass is half-full. My party and I really can't get to it with our heads. It actually reminds us a bit of the dodo. You know, the bird that is no longer alive, because when the Dutch set foot ashore in Mauritius, especially the pigs and the rats they took with them wiped him out by eating his eggs, so that the bird could not protect itself. We should expect Dutch politics to have a better adaptive ability, but nothing is less true. In addition to the fact that the Netherlands is a climate dododo and an educational dododo, the Netherlands is also a coronadodo. In fact, we seem to count on the current situation time and time again, and we are looking forward to great relaxation. But worst of all, it's the gods' requests. In this worst case scenario, the model in which between 16,000 and 22,000 people will need care and between 2,200 and 3,400 ic-care will become reality not in the coming year or years, but already in the next quarter. Mr. Chairman. Also the absence of health care is not a lie. Apart from the human grief that will occur as a result, the overburdened regular care will continue to come into the tribulation: doctors, nurses, nursing staff, support staff and so on. Especially from many nurses I get emails in which they indicate that they are on their last legs, that they have been on holiday with guilt because they are afraid of what will happen in the autumn. How does the Minister view this? Because what exactly does the Netherlands base much of its complacency in the corona policy? Right. To the vaccination rate. And yes, we do have one of the highest levels of vaccination, and I am happy about that. This means that despite the multitude of manufactured nonsense, most Dutch people do realize that vaccination works. 90% of the people who end up on the ic by corona have not been vaccinated. That 90% could have been largely avoided. I would therefore urge everyone to be vaccinated and to convince friends and family to do the same. But merely building on vaccination is not enough. This shows Germany that by 10 percentage points it has a lower full vaccination rate among people over 18 years of age and has significantly fewer infections. In short, measures are still indispensable at this stage. Last week, Mr Kuipers said that about 2 million unvaccinated people could lead to up to 10,000 new infections a day. They can translate into hundreds of new hospitalizations. Moreover, the reduction in the number of infections does not decrease. Mr Van Dissel was also concerned about this. My final question is whether the Minister intends to allow the relaxations to continue when this remains the case. If not, what tough demands does he make? Then one final comment. It has already been said: the Formula 1 versus The Parade, how is that to be done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u110	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am doing my part on behalf of Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21, who will not take part in the debate until later. Mr. Chairman. Corona stays. This also remains the task of dealing with it wisely, and that is not an easy task. It is harmful to be careless, as we saw earlier this summer when dancing with Janssendrama, but it is also harmful to be too careful and to maintain restrictive measures for too long. That tension is always on it, and that's a narrow path. In the fight against the virus, much emphasis is placed on vaccination as the solution. I would like to continue to warn against expecting everything from the vaccine. Look wider and be steady: no vaccination compulsion or urge, not through the front door and not through the back door. What does the cabinet say to the Dutch who are worried about that? Look wider. We have recently been hearing very little about medicines that can be used against corona or that can be developed. How's that going? Don't they just stay in the shadows? Look wider. It is not reasonable to expect that with one miracle cure, whether a vaccine or a medicine, all need for medical care like snow disappears before the sun. Therefore, it remains important to continue to focus on increasing opportunities for ic-care. In addition, high-quality corona care should also be available outside the hospital, by general practitioners, by home care. My question is what is the concrete commitment of the cabinet to this. I know there's been a lot going on about that, a lot of attention, but is that gonna be okay? How is it prevented from evaporated when the biggest waves are over? Look wider. To what extent is there an eye for the fact that many people have already experienced corona once or even several times and have therefore also built immunity? Our appeal to the cabinet is: in addition to the positive effects, also honestly name the limitations of vaccinations, such as the fact that you can still get corona after one or two shots, or who knows three, even if the risk is more limited. But still, it can still be done and you can possibly pass it on. That alone is a reason not to unilaterally consider vaccination as the free pass for normal life. The SGP does not want vaccination coercion or urge, not through the front door and not through the back door. We are therefore opposed to the government's intention to have non-vaccinators pay for access tests to attend, for example, a concert. Those access tests were previewed by the Chamber as an opportunity to open society faster than would otherwise be justified, but actually that route has become a flop. Now that access tests are going to be used to put pressure on non-vaccines via the wallet, my question is: The Access Test Act adopted an amendment by SGP and other parties requiring that citizens' access tests should not be required outside the sectors mentioned in the law. How is it checked that a test is not wrongly requested? Mr. Chairman. Even when the greatest waves are over, but corona remains, any citizen may be expected to take sensible precautions, but it is the personal responsibility of the citizen to fill in the way they should look. This is a starting point of our rule of law that we must stand for in times of corona. If we're trapped in cramped credulity thinking, we'll be indignant at every new corona outbreak looking for the scapegoats. As far as the SGP is concerned, this is not a beneficial path. It would be better to appeal to everyone's responsibility, but also to continue to respect constitutional freedoms and to realise that corona remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u112	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u113	Mr. Chairman. Last week, an optimistic press conference. That, of course, raises the Netherlands. It is also moving in the right direction very carefully: infections seem to gradually decline, as do hospitalisations. But we must remain realistic and alert, despite the flow of good news. The Group of the European People's Party particularly welcomes the lifting of measures in education. Education can finally be opened. But why does the cabinet deviate from the advice of the RIVM? That question has, of course, been asked earlier by Mrs Marijnissen of the SP. The cabinet also announced on Monday 20 September that it would like to say goodbye to the one-and-a-half meter measure, the mouth cap and the homework advice. From the new normal we go back to the old normal. Would it really happen? The whole of the Netherlands is looking forward to it. But how is the Minister going to ensure that we are not surprised again, for example by returning travellers and the seasonal effects that are coming? RIVM also indicated this morning during the technical briefing that a large flu wave is expected in the autumn. Is the care sector prepared for a comeback of the virus in the form of influenza or corona? Is there enough staff? Are there enough tests and other medical devices? Are there enough ice beds? And, if not, why not? After all, we have been working on this for a year and a half. And is the Minister prepared to deploy a so-called multiplex assay, which simultaneously for influenza A and B, and for COVID-19? That is also happening in the United States. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. An important part of the public debate concerns the compulsory vaccination. We do not see any uniformity in the European Union in terms of vaccination certificates. I've been on a trip and I've really had to bring a whole pile of forms. But we see it mostly in France and Greece. That's where it is. Eating out or going to the movies is only possible there with a vaccination certificate, and care personnel are required to be vaccinated. This is a scenario that DENK, but also colleagues like Mr Wilders, have warned about and many Dutch people fear. The Prime Minister is quite right to say that he sees no reason to impose a vaccination obligation. But he does say, "at the moment." Then, of course, you have to pay attention. In fact, the Prime Minister says that he does not rule out the fact that the Netherlands does not escape a vaccination obligation. He'll even pass judgment on this to the judge. It's up to him to decide. I'm asking the Cabinet to take responsibility and not leave this to the judge. I'm asking the Cabinet to come forward with a clear bill. We have a decision-making tree for everything, for all the decisions on the corona crisis we all have decision-making trees, but now we cannot make a final judgment on this point, when the Chamber made a ruling on it a year and a half ago? I ask the cabinet whether it is prepared to prepare a bill that states that employees cannot be obliged by their employers to be vaccinated. I'm going to table a motion on that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. The imperative nature of the corona policy is beginning to become visible. You're gonna have to pay for tests later, which is why we're actually moving in the direction of coercion around vaccinations. The cabinet will later refuse to make free self-tests available to citizens. Until winter, families even have to do it with two free self-tests per household. For those who cannot afford a self-test, vaccination becomes very tempting. That's why we're moving in the direction of coercion. Mr President, I shall conclude. Earlier, this cabinet drew a line through large-scale festivals in the Netherlands by setting a maximum of 750 people at events. Under the pretext of protecting public health, these measures are imposed, with all their consequences. The event sector is going down and the festival industry has been destroyed while football matches with full stadiums and Formula 1 with 70,000 men are allowed to continue undisturbed. Yes, I'm a fan of football and also a big fan of Formula One, but this is inexplicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u114	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President and inhabitants of the Netherlands. Last week, we first heard through the media, and only then by letter of Parliament, what the new and possible future measures will be. I didn't exactly feel good about it. Of course, it is good that we are now talking about an end to the measures, if that is the case. But the road to it does worry me. I see that, despite the fine words of outgoing minister De Jonge, we are simply moving slowly but surely towards vaccination coercion, and certainly towards vaccination urge. The number of places where you need to show a vaccination certificate or a negative test certificate is increasing and will be further expanded. We wouldn't get a test society, but we're getting it now, it seems, for a virus that only gives 97.5% of people mild complaints. Mr Paternotte did a bit of fear earlier today. A lot of people don't get chemo anymore and no heart surgery, and that's all because of the unvaccinated. This morning, during the technical briefing, there were also doom scenarios. The 2.5 million non-protected people can provide 16,000 to 22,000 hospitalizations and up to 3,400 ICU admissions. However, these are estimates which Mr Van Dissel himself said: it cannot be predicted at all. The period during which these numbers come in hospital or on ice is also not known at all. Is it within a month, spread over a year or spread over five years? No one remembers. I think this is a very dangerous development. Spreading numbers and fears about which there is really nothing to predict leads to a lot of unrest in society. Unvaccinated people are already banned from club clubs, bridge clubs and other associations. People who have been playing cards with each other for decades are falling apart. I even know people who have a wedding crisis because of vaccination or not, mostly because people are scared and put away as a major danger to public health. They are called antisocial and decadent by the Demissionary Minister of Health. They're gonna be outside of society. Mr. Chairman. This is what I call vaccination coercion. The unmistakable division in society around this subject cannot have escaped these rulers. In fact, I asked specific parliamentary questions about this on 9 August, or even on 7 August, I believe. Despite my request to reply to them at the latest on the day of the press conference due to topicality and urgency, they have not been answered. Meanwhile, last Monday I read in daily Trouw that care workers with covid complaints can still work in the hospital. How inconsistent is that? What happened to the advice we once started with, "Do you have complaints, stay home"? You can work in the hospital with complaints, and in the meantime, the unvaccinated get the blackbird. BBB is very concerned. Of course, we are also concerned about the people affected by covid and extra concerns about the possible consequences of lung covid. And it's sanding. You're welcome to know that from me. Of course I don't want people to get seriously ill, and of course I don't want people to die of covid. But I also do not want to live in a country where the government wants to push the border a little bit, each time with a very small step, as D66 now proposes, for example, with employers who can oblige workers to be vaccinated or at least pay for tests. And then people in this Chamber who have to stand up for people's fundamental rights say, "Well, if this is it, what difference does it make? As long as you do it quietly and phasedly enough." Mr President, I shall conclude. I just said that last week I asked questions about vaccination coercion, vaccination urge and the division of society. These have not been answered, despite an explicit request to do so before the press conference. I therefore propose that the outgoing Prime Minister and the outgoing Minister of Health should answer these questions here tonight, with the entire Chamber present and in front of the cameras. Because we can't make it more fun, but more transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u116	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last month we stood here and debated the fourth wave, again caused by policies in which taking risks with public health is the order of the day. I am not just saying this because the much-discussed group immunity through contamination was deliberate policy, at the expense of human lives. I am not saying that either because the policy is determined by target dates taken from the sky rather than the actual situation. I say that because after several waves of contamination, based on the same choices each time, we simply cannot conclude otherwise. During this pandemic, the blame has been thrown over and over again on its own responsibility. Insufficient guidance from the cabinet led to a fingering of the citizen........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Once again, this outgoing cabinet creates more polarization. During the fourth wave it was the youngsters, after they thought it safe to go out by the outgoing minister. What about the consequences? Tens of thousands of infections, thousands exposed to the risks of lung covid and a outgoing Prime Minister who took the word "uncivilized" in his mouth. Not because of the risks deliberately taken, not because of the policy behind them, but because I had the guts to name the hard facts. And after this umpteenth debacle, has it been decided to turn the wheel? The answer is for the umpteenth time: no, on the contrary. While a highly contagious variant goes around, mouth caps are no longer needed, measures are lifted and even a potential endpoint is pointed out with dry eyes. Almost all measures in the MBO, colleges and universities will lapse. We saw a month ago what the delta variant can do, and now it is once again decided that it is acceptable risks. At the same time, indirect vaccination pressure leads to the question of how to keep society open and liveable for those who, for example, cannot be vaccinated for health reasons. Are they allowed to participate in society? We need a structural solution for a society in which we can handle the virus in the long term. What are the plans to structurally strengthen the healthcare system and relieve our care staff? How can room be made for more beds? How does the Cabinet view a society in which the virus no longer leaves? I'm not the first MP here today to cry out for vision. We need a vision that goes beyond the next press conference, which is both national and international. Because international news was painful; Mrs Bikker also mentioned it. The news showed who's working for policy and who's not. A handful of people can now call themselves billionaire over the back of all this suffering. Pfizer's profits are channelled through the Netherlands, among other things, to avoid tax. Meanwhile, the same company is starting a campaign to sell a third shot, while billions of people worldwide are still waiting for a first vaccination. With the support of this outgoing cabinet, capitalism and the free market are going to appear, as it turns out once again. I'd almost call it "uncivilized." Until the helm moves radically, until we stop muddling and start to actually commit ourselves to policies that work for everyone, that nobody leaves behind, that look beyond today or tomorrow and the daily levels of popularity, until that moment I fear that the end for all of us is still far from sight. I look forward to hearing the views of the three leaders present. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u118	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u119	Mr. Chairman. There is no logic in this cabinet's corona policy. How does the VWS minister explain, for example, that we can visit a football match with tens of thousands of people and that 75,000 people can go to Formula 1 in Zandvoort, but that we can't go to a festival? What is the logic behind allowing home parties, but then forbid a discotheque to party with the same number of people? What math wonder has decided that the maximum number of students in HBOs and universities is 75? Doesn't that depend on the size of the room? In a room for 1,000 people, this is total bullshit, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. We're on our way to vaccination compulsion and urge. The vaccination pressure and urge is increasing and people who are not going to be vaccinated are getting fewer and fewer freedoms. I therefore ask the Prime Minister once again how he sees my motion against an indirect vaccination obligation in the light of the current restrictions on freedom for non-vaccines. In particular, the fact that unvaccinated pupils have to be tested twice a week is downright cross-border, while children are at negligible risk of corona and can also pass on vaccinees. Thanks to a recent Wob request it was known that officials had calculated that the lockdown would yield 100,000 life years, but would cost 620,000 life years. So 520,000 years of life have been annihilated by this cabinet, an almost criminal decision. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS whether they were aware of this report, and if so, why they decided to set the lockdown. Finally, Mr President. Individual freedom is under attack. There is a kind of all-powerful unitary state that is breaking the Constitution and tramples on democracy. For this cabinet and its left-wing supporters it will feel like a beautiful, Marxist summer, but for the sake of the Netherlands this is a pitch black page in Dutch history. We will continue to fight against lockdowns and mouth caps, against curfew and against the test society, but for the freedom of the individual and for the free future of our children. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u120	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to suspend the sitting until 6.30 p.m., including a dinner break, also because the Prime Minister has to make a number of calls on Afghanistan due to urgent issues. I'd appreciate your understanding of that. Then we'll start again at 6:30. There are possibilities in the State Passage to make use of the dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u121	The next item is the first term of office on developments in coronavirus. First, I give the floor to the Prime Minister. It's nice if he can tell us how the topics are divided. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u122	Mr. Chairman. The idea is that the Minister of Education will talk about education and also about the ventilation questions surrounding education. It's so obvious sometimes. I will say a few things myself about the measures and the support packages. All other questions, for example about vaccinations and everything related to testing and the like, will be answered by the Minister of VWS. I shall begin with the questions that have been asked about the measures. Actually, those were more questions about the underlying consistency, for example about Formula 1 in Zandvoort. It is perhaps worth noting that we have not taken a separate decision on this, because that Formula 1 is a so-called "placed event," as we say today. This must be done either with a third volume or, if they use tests, with two thirds. I understand they're gonna do that. I also read something about a campsite in Zandvoort. Yeah, that's okay in itself. But it's not like it's suddenly, because there's a camping site, a multi-day event with overnight stays. If they want to sleep at that campsite, they just need to be tested every day. What was the point with Lowlands and some of those other big festivals? That they said: if we have to test every morning after an overnight stay at the campsite, then that is simply not logistics. So they said themselves then, in the summer: then tell them that it can't be done. So if you're staying at that campground, you can have it all. That's unrelated to the Formula One. But then you just have to be tested every day. Then there are also questions about the football stadiums. To this end, there has been a discussion with the KNVB and, of course, conversations with the mayors are also taking place. For example, say "I'm gonna close a part of the stadium and then I'm gonna let everyone sit on top of each other in the rest of the stadium, assuming access tests with two-thirds occupancy of the total stadium" that can't be done. Those seats are striped off because part of the stadium was closed off. But on all these things good consultation takes place from VWS with the KNVB. But this is also discussed with the municipalities. The question has been asked why house parties are allowed and do not party in the catering industry with the same number of people. At home we ask "do it carefully, do it wisely." But we can't step behind every front door. The same applies to the so-called house parties. That is in response to the questions about the measures. I will get to the questions about the support package in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u123	Thank you. I first saw Mrs Marijnissen of the SP and then Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u124	A short question about those football stadiums. Super natural that there can be audience at any time in a football stadium. The Prime Minister himself states, as I understand from his words, that it is not the intention to keep whole subjects empty and then sit down with other cottages. Now I think today, if I'm not mistaken, I saw another statement from the KNVB about that. They don't really say anything about that. They say: we just stick to the rules, because two thirds is two thirds, and it's with corona tickets, so not a foot and a half and so it's just allowed to keep compartments closed like that and the rest hut. I understand, however, that the Prime Minister agrees that, to put it mildly, this is not very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u125	I don't know that communication from the KNVB. All I know is that from VWS there has been contact with the KNVB to say: you take two thirds of the total number of seats. If you strip and close a part of the stadium, the number of seats decreases and then it is two thirds of the number of seats left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u126	I understand that, but I think we've all been able to see that it's not exactly the standing practice right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u127	No, sure, and that's why those conversations are about that, too, with the municipality, which should have maintained. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u128	Thank you. I call Mr Wilders of the PVV, then Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks and then Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u129	The Prime Minister is in charge of the measures. He has heard me say that I think that now, with 90% of the people with antibody immunity and 200 people on the ic's, it is actually time to stop taking those measures, and that should appeal to him as a liberal; I also said it to someone from D66 in his first term. And certainly shouldn't add corona tickets and paid tests. But there's one thing the Prime Minister can do, and that's what my question is about. My question is about ventilation. That's incredibly important. The Prime Minister knows that at the last sitting a motion of mine was adopted by the Chamber in which ventilation was identified as a top priority. We also know by now that 80% of contamination occurs in the home situation. Almost eight of the ten infections in the Netherlands take place in the home situation, or when visiting the home situation. That's between 75% and 80%. Now, Mr. Prime Minister, you have given the advice to the people at first I thought it was a joke, but you were serious about airing at home, where eight out of ten infections occur, 15 minutes a day. I would ask you to be more serious about that. There have been professors, Professor Bluyssen, Professor Blocken of TU Eindhoven, virologists and you name it, who have said that this is a joke. Running for 15 minutes isn't enough. It should be 15 minutes an hour. In addition, we should also advise people to turn it off - let me give you an example - as far as they have an air conditioner, because it only cools and reuses air. What is needed are mechanical systems or open windows. In short, in view of the motion adopted by the Chamber, the top priority given to ventilation and the fact that almost eight out of ten infections occur in the home situation, the essence of my question is: please take those advice a little more seriously. Can you promise me that when it comes to ventilation and the use of air conditioning, once at a press conference or otherwise the Netherlands, you will give some more serious advice than just the advice to air at home, where all these infections take place, for 15 minutes a day?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u130	The question is whether this is the end of it. Of course that's not the point. I just said last time that we, encouraged by Mr Wilders and others, agree that we should add this to the sign. So it's gonna say that beautiful icon that tells you to open your window. We are not talking about ventilation, we are talking about air. Ventilation can also be a propeller on the ceiling, and that could make things worse. It's about fresh air. I also agree with Mr Wilders that you should draw on external expertise for this. Among other things, VWS is in contact with the Professor Bluyssen mentioned by him. I do not know if the contact has already been established, but at least we will get in touch with it. We're getting in touch with experts like this. RIVM and other institutions are also investigating how to achieve fresh air and what it takes. You can do more than 15 minutes a day; I agree with Mr Wilders. So, in fact, I agree with his argument. As soon as we can really say more about this, we will certainly include it in the communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u131	I'm happy about that in itself, but it's about speed. Again, eight out of ten infections are currently taking place in the people's homes. That's huge, almost 80%. We have talked earlier about CO meters in the catering industry and elsewhere, we have talked about education, for which money has been brought forward to invest extra in ventilation. But then eight out of ten contagions take place at home. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he can tell the Netherlands, the people who are watching television now or reading the newspaper tomorrow, a little bit more about how one can air better in the home situation. Perhaps airing is indeed a better word than ventilating rather than just a quarter of an hour a day. I think a lot of people are waiting for that. The letter from the esteemed Health Minister says that there will be an inter-departmental consultation in August, but we will not be much wiser in the short term. Can you promise us that, given the number of home infections, you will be able to provide a little more information to the Dutch in the short term, via a press conference or via a website, on how people can air? You see, that saves contagion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u132	Now the ratings for those press conferences are already down. I think it's gonna sink a lot further when I announce I'm gonna talk about fresh air. I don't think anyone's gonna look anymore. So I think we should be careful with that. I agree with you. We have to do that, but I don't know if I should do all that myself. Those steps have now been taken. Perhaps the Minister of Education will say something about schools. This hand-out concerns ventilation between quotes, because beware: no propeller on the ceiling. We've got the RIVM investigation. The ventilation standards for the alcohol-giving hospitality are included in the Trm. And that was also really Mr Wilders' point of view for the further commitment to improving this we involve the expertise of scientists, including the mentioned Professor Bluyssen. Of course, we'll do more if we have to. The answer is yes, but I do not think I should promise to do so at the next press conference. Once again, no one's watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u133	The Prime Minister's kidding, and I have to laugh about it, I have to confess. But it's actually not funny at all. Again, eight out of ten infections occur in the home situation. Okay, ratings are dropping, but millions of people are still watching the press conferences. You don't have to announce it in advance, but if you go into more detail about ventilation, air conditioning and how often you need to air, it could have a huge effect. It must be in the drivers' heads. It has to be in people's heads at home. That's where the infections take place. His joke was fun, but for the seriousness of the subject, I would finally ask the Prime Minister to promise the Chamber to communicate extensively about the importance of airing in the home situation. The Minister is right to say that this must be much more and more extensive than 15 minutes a day. If he can do that, at least we're a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u134	If I can interpret it in such a way that it does not have to be all because of me, but because of the government and not everything in the press conference, but also wider, then the answer is yes. As far as I'd be doing it in a press conference, we'd keep it a secret until I did, so people wouldn't be able to drop out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u135	No, but again, it's serious. Thank you for that. My question is still to do so in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u136	Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks and then Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The outgoing Prime Minister just said: yes, there is a campsite at Formula 1, but people have to show a test or vaccination certificate every day. That is why this event can go on and not a festival like Lowlands, because that cannot be arranged there. Now these are two extremes, but there are also many smaller festivals, where for example 7,000 people come to. I would actually go to such a festival myself next weekend: there is no camping, it is two days. If you go in there, you can show me proof every day. That can't go on and an event like Formula 1, where many more people come and some of the people can just walk around, goes on. I don't understand that very well. Here it really seems to be measured with two different sizes. I would ask the outgoing Prime Minister to explain that. Why can't one and the other do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u139	We don't look at the type of events. It's events that are in place or unplaced. The rules are very clear. In the case of unplaced, a maximum of 750 people and a maximum of one-third of the normal capacity and two-thirds of the admission fee are in place without a ticket. The sector itself said that, apart from the 750, multi-day events with overnight stays and daily tests cannot be done. They also wanted to be eligible for the schemes. That is why we said at the end of July, early August, that these events could not continue. If people are staying at a campsite between two days of Formula One, I can't forbid it. But then they have to show an admission ticket and a corona ticket every day. This will now be easier because many people have been vaccinated, much more than a month ago. But it could also mean that they just had to take another test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u140	For a very large part, I can follow it. Of course it has to be organized. Of course, I know that there are some very big events that cannot be organized properly. We were also informed last time and in the letter of the agreements made. But also at the event in Zandvoort, Formula 1, several thousand unplaced tickets are sold. People can just get mixed up. Then I don't think I can explain anymore that this can go on and other events can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u141	It can only be done if it's in place, so this couldn't be done. I hope Zandvoort is listening, because I can't. I haven't heard it before. Zandvoort is placed at two thirds of its capacity. It can't be that they combine that with the other scheme. In addition, they would allow 750 unplaced people, but they can't. I'm not sure you can combine it. We should check that in the scheme. If it is, it's a maximum of 750. If you could combine it, which I should check out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u142	Thank you. Mr Van Haga and then Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u143	In addition to Mrs Westerveld. I understand that all kinds of officials and board members come up with nice arrangements: posted and unplaced, with test and without test, 750 people. But isn't that what we're going to miss? Shouldn't we just go back to the facts? Where do the infections take place? Well, not outside. Does it not make more sense to get rid of all this bureaucracy and ensure that these kinds of incomprehensible things can be removed, as Mrs Westerveld has just explained, so that we can have a clear settlement? For example outside unplaced possible and allow everything nice and inside a little more restrictive. I could imagine that. But now it is almost impossible to explain that there are all these kinds of differences between more or less equivalent events.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u144	No, multi-day events where the overnight stay is an integral part, cannot. Three days in a row Zandvoort: if that is always a unique day where in most cases new audiences go and you stay in a hotel or whatever, you have to show every time you come in that you have a ticket and if you haven't had a vaccine, you have to take a test like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u145	There are differences. Festivals are not possible at the moment. You can sit in a stadium with 20,000 men and you can go to Formula One. I love it all, but it's weird that you can't. You can't go in a discotheque, but you can party with the same number of people in the house. It's okay with me, but it's weird that the same kind of events aren't allowed in different situations. Again, my plea would be: remove that bureaucracy and allow the same cases to be assessed in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u146	We don't distinguish between events or anything. What we are looking at is: are you sitting or standing and is it integral with overnight stay or not? But we're not saying Formula One is and Lowlands isn't. We're not, we're not. And at home behind the front door we can't check, so there's the urgent advice: do it wisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u147	I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u148	I have the impression that the Prime Minister lives in a paper reality by focusing on that placement. He knows it's no big deal. Imagine Formula One, Max Verstappen wins. What does the Prime Minister think? That those 70,000 people are gonna say, bravo Max? No, there's jollying, there's jumping and dancing, there's hostage and people are hugging each other. Well, then that placement wouldn't be a big deal, would it? It'll be released immediately. That's a farce. Then the Prime Minister will also know that you are going to have a superspreading event, with all those 70,000 people celebrating Max Verstappen's victory. Why focus on the placement? This is possible with a performance and with a classic performance, but De Parade is not allowed to continue with 1,750 people in Amsterdam. I can assure the Prime Minister that in general there is a lot less hugging, singing and jumping than in Formula One or football. What's with the focus on the placement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u149	By the way, this Parade took place in Utrecht, The Hague and Eindhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u150	Yeah, for 500 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u151	In Amsterdam, they chose not to do so and to cancel the event. But it did take place in Utrecht, The Hague and Eindhoven. And otherwise, of course, if Max Verstappen wins, everyone will jump up and be happy. But it's a big difference if you jump up and are happy with the people right around you and then sit back down or if you're at an unplaced festival like Lowlands, where people are constantly moving, running from tent to tent. That's a big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u152	The Parade has indeed continued in a few places, for 500 people. Amsterdam wanted to do it before 1,750 and this could not be because of a high risk of traffic between people. Of course, that's what you're going to get in Formula One, despite the placement. But also literally: 70,000 people go a day. For a very large part they come by train. The NS has already said that we can handle 10,000 people a day. Then you have a very high risk of that traffic between people, as it's called? That could also promote the spread of corona, couldn't it? Then why allow it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u153	We don't give permission for events, like Formula One or whatever. They don't come to us with the question: can it? We have framework conditions and they have said that they can organise it within these framework conditions. That's how it happened. It is not the case that we have said: it may or may not be. They have said that, given the rules for placed events, we think we can comply with them. They're either gonna lose on that or they're not gonna lose on that. That is their problem, but they allow it to continue, but within all conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u154	The Prime Minister says it's on paper, they say it, so it's true; hullie says it, so it will be. I disagree. Then let me establish that. I asked another question. I don't know if the Prime Minister wanted to answer that as well. Does the Prime Minister know about the climate crisis, about the biodiversity crisis, about the nature crisis? Does he also know that the Heads of Government in the neighbouring countries, Belgium, Germany, have said that measures really need to be taken? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that organising and allowing such a Formula 1 race is really the worst signal that the Netherlands can give, even in the light of the IPCC report?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u155	If tackling the climate crisis means that we can never do this kind of thing again, then you will really get rid of the whole support behind tackling the climate crisis. There is a very serious climate crisis. We have to solve it with each other. I said something about that when the IPCC report came out. The cabinet is closing the gap on 49%, negotiating 55% in Europe, to be climate neutral by 2050. We are also looking at how to deal with the whole green hydrogen economy and how to tackle the nitrogen crisis. On that very broad spectrum we are working, in the cabinet, but also, of course, when the formation starts, with the forming parties, no doubt. So I very much agree with him, but he is now narrowing that down by saying that this cannot go on. If that's how you're gonna do it, Mr. Wassenberg, then you might only have a few Party for the Animal Voters left, but the rest of you are gonna drop out. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u156	Of course, that's a you-bowl. I believe that the Netherlands is doing worse in terms of climate, in terms of renewable energy, in terms of biodiversity, than any other country in Europe, except Malta. So the Minister believes in his own paper reality here too. He mentions a number of figures that the Netherlands is far from meeting. Government leaders around us have said they're gonna do it and they're gonna have to do it. Here is a great opportunity to send a clear signal: people, we can continue to organise events, we can continue to do things that people love, we can do people a favor with, but this, this high mass of fossil industry, this festival, this spectacle that costs huge amounts of fossil energy, that delivers huge amounts of emissions, that is very bad for nature, we have seen which species are threatened there, also by the construction of the circuit, it really goes too far, we put a brake on this. This is a wonderful opportunity to show: we want to offer you a lot, people, but this goes too far. Why didn't you take this chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u157	Now we're a long way from corona. Now we're talking about other effects of such an event. To this end, of course, it is also subject to authorisation and it has to meet a great many requirements. So, if it goes on, it's obviously gonna meet those demands. That's this particular event. Furthermore, we have a huge problem with nitrogen and global warming. In my way of seeing, we have to do three things at once. We need to solve these major crises. We must do this in such a way that the Netherlands is number one in the world in creating jobs and prosperity from solving this problem. The third is that we must do so in such a way that people do not have to fundamentally change their lives. If you don't do one of these three right, you have a big problem. All three of us can do that. That's what I'm convinced of. The Netherlands is now about the richest country in the world when you look at how we stand. By the way, the combination of replaced and unplaced can't be allowed. So you can't say in Formula One: I have 70,000 and then 750 standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u158	Thank you. The Prime Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u159	Yes. A few questions about the support schemes, starting with the organizers of festivals and events. We are, of course, very aware of this, as I said at press time, this summer and also earlier, that this is extremely disappointing for the sector. It is an incredible thump that the sector gets through these decisions. Therefore, the guarantee schemes are extended until 19 September to cover 100% of the eligible costs. The additional concession events announced for events not eligible for the guarantee scheme are currently being developed. The question was asked as to what is going to happen with these arrangements and when they will come to the Chamber. This additional concession is indeed being worked out at the moment. It is intended to apply to events planned throughout that period which are prohibited and subsequently cancelled by the organizer. It is intended for publicly accessible licensing or reporting events, i.e. no weddings or birthdays. The approach is to apply a minimum of €2,500. The cabinet is now examining the role of municipalities in the assessment and implementation of this approach. All the details are now being worked out. We expect to get out in the next few weeks. Then there was the point of the signals that caterers and artists are not getting any money out of that guarantee scheme. By compensating the organisations of events through the Guarantee Fund for the costs incurred, they are intended to respect all the legal obligations there are with subcontractors. So all the payments they have to make, they have to do just that. This will help not only the organisers, but also other actors in the chain. We also have an eye for this in the drafting of this supplementary regulation, this additional concession event, as promised in the previous debate and also in response to the motion. The organisers are thus enabled to meet all these legal obligations, including towards subcontractors. The organisers can and must be held by the subcontractors. If Mrs Westerveld has any specific signals, I would ask her to forward them to me through the President. Then we'll take a closer look at that. Then there was the question about the broader support packages. They basically end with the third quarter. The cabinet is currently looking at how far ahead, but in itself we see that the economic forecasts are favourable for the Netherlands, very favourable, and that we are really coming into a new phase. We will of course come to the Chamber on how to proceed after 1 October. For the nighthoreca we have said, because it is certainly closed until 1 November, that we are looking at how we can support it in a very targeted way. After 1 October, they would no longer be able to avail themselves of the existing arrangements. In the coming weeks we will come to the Chamber with how we deal with Q4 and specifically with that nighthoreca after October 1st and until at least November 1st. Of course, we are also relying on the whole epidemiological picture and the new expectations of the Central Planning Office on the development of the economy. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask the question about vaccination. Force and urge are with the VWS Minister, but Mr Wilders asked me very specific questions about the point "not yet" or "not at the moment." That means nothing other than that we really do not want it. I'm just gonna say that here, too. We do not want it, a vaccination obligation, but in such a crisis you can never rule out the fact that something happens that you have to do something. As far as I am concerned, that will never be broad and I cannot foresee where it should be. We cannot foresee that at the moment. It's an unforeseeable circulation, in that scene from the famous English series Yes, Minister. But you can't say it's never gonna happen. In addition, there is already one exception, namely to be sent out soldiers. They are legally obliged to be vaccinated, so there is an exception. But we do not want any further exceptions. So one more time: when I say that, I don't do that to show that we're already secretly preparing something. Absolutely not. I agree with everyone who says: do not impose a vaccination obligation or coercion. But you never know with this virus. Perhaps it is necessary at some point for a particular sector or for a system or I know a lot, but we do not have any plans for that. That's what it's meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u160	First of all, a question from Mr Kuzu van Denk and then Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u161	In any case, it is a good thing that the Prime Minister is ready to speak, also in connection with two statements in the Chamber, that he is against a vaccination obligation, directly or indirectly. At the same time, he says in the same press conference that if companies want to choose to introduce a vaccination obligation for their employees, the judge must judge it. If we look at legislation, you could also say: let the judge judge it. Would it not be wise, I ask the Prime Minister, to ensure that this is done legally, as we have done earlier with regard to the Corona app, when we have told employers that they should not force employees to install such an app?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u162	The Minister of VWS will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u163	He really prepared that and he really has the latest state of affairs in his answers. I was preparing my answers and he was his. Of course, I could do this without error, but I'm not going to, because I don't know the last stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u164	Would it be okay if the Secretary of State of the United States came back to that in a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u165	However, the Prime Minister does make statements about this in the media, but the cabinet speaks with one voice, so yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u166	You must see this statement: it must not be allowed. The employer is not allowed to do so, except for the armed forces for people who are deployed. That is the only place where there is a legal obligation to be vaccinated, for military personnel to be deployed. We didn't know that this morning either. We figured that out for a while, but it turns out that's where it is. That's as far as we want it and we can't. That's the way you look at the pronunciation. The statement about "not at the moment" or "unforeseen" is not meant to create an opening because we already have a big plan in place, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u167	I still think it's important to mark this. The Prime Minister says that an employer should not force workers to be vaccinated, whereas he actually says in the newspaper: if certain companies choose to do so, it may be that the judge has to judge it. Then I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u168	If a company does something that isn't allowed... Exactly. Exactly. Minister De Jonge here next to me says something about it. I leave it with Hugo de Jonge, because that was very specific about dance venues, I believe, with tickets that made this mandatory and it is really wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u169	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders, because you did respond to a question from Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u170	Sure, because I wanted to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u171	On the one hand, it is good news to hear that the Prime Minister has no plans to introduce a vaccination obligation. But he leaves it open anyway. He doesn't say, "I'm never gonna do it." He says: I can't rule it out; I don't have the plans right now, and there's nothing in the fridge, but I can't rule out the possibility that in the future there's going to be a situation that has to be done, or that I'm going to do it anyway. I think I'm putting it together so well. And then he says something the Chamber thinks is different. The Court has repeatedly stated that in no case can there be any possibility, not only of compulsion or urge, but also of vaccination. I therefore regret that you are proposing it, although you do not intend it, because my party, but also a majority of the Chamber, has voted twice or three times, with a motion by Mr Kuzu and a motion by myself, that we do not consider a vaccination obligation acceptable in any case. Why don't you say, "I'm never gonna do that?" I'm sorry to hear that. I'm asking you to do that. You cannot appoint a situation of your own, except for the military, which it already applies to, in which it could be. So I really don't understand why you're keeping that open unless you say, well, you know, if this happens, in that situation, I'm not ready, you know. Then maybe we can get some insight into why, but you're just saying: I'm not going to, but I'm not ruling it out. That's what makes a lot of people think: when? Just say I'm not gonna do it, I'm never gonna do it, the room doesn't want to, and I never will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u172	I don't want to. I don't think we're ever gonna do it, either, but with this virus and all the mutations, you never know what's going on in a year or two years, so you have to say at some point: this is true for certain sectors, or in certain circumstances, or whatever. You can't categorically, guaranteed, say it will never happen, because the virus is so unpredictable. But with everything we know now, I can't even think of a situation other than the one in the military.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u173	Thank you. This brings you to the end of your speech. There is another interruption by Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u174	I think I asked another question about those years of life. I don't know who's gonna answer it, but I thought I'd put it to the Prime Minister. Okay. Then hopefully this one doesn't count.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u175	No, definitely not. There is another interruption by Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u176	I asked another question about that 75, that border. I speak very well of some entrepreneurs who say: that may be difficult for me. My question was whether we are going to look together with entrepreneurs to see if there is something smarter to think of, whether that is in the border or in the way you set it up, or whether you define it for inside and outside. Is that still being looked at? Is the cabinet open to that? Of course, we have until September 20th. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u177	It's better if I leave that with Hugo de Jonge, because that depends on another question he's going to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u178	Clear. Then I think it would be a good idea to change regiments now. I'm gonna see if it's the health minister who's gonna talk right now. Yes. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u179	Mr. Chairman. I would like to reply as follows. First of all, a small number of questions have been asked about the measures and the look-through towards 20 September and then towards autumn. I'd like to start with that. Then there are the questions about vaccination. Then I answer the questions about working with tickets and related to the question of whether that is vaccination urge; should you consider that as such and where is the cabinet actually at that point? Then I have a single question about the capacity to provide care and I have a number of other questions. I will start with the questions related to the measures and the look-through towards the autumn. The core of the decision-making process and the core of the OMT advice is of course that although we have quite a well-established vaccination rate, which is certainly impressive and which is also something to be very grateful for, not off the hook. We are not out of danger zone, and all this has to do with the fact that besides that huge number of vaccinees there is also a large group of people who are not immunised. That's about 1.8 million people, dear OMT. This means that if they are exposed to this virus in too short a period of time, a considerable burden of care can still occur. That is actually at the heart of the situation we are now in. Of course, we're in transition. We come from a real outbreak phase, the real epidemic phase, and of course we go to a situation where we have to learn to live with corona, as we have had to live with so many viruses, but we are not there yet. We are really still at the stage in which we are saying that the people who have said this really need a number of measures. That is what I would like to say to all those who are advocating this, but unfortunately we still need a number of measures. Until exactly when is incredibly difficult to estimate. We have to prepare for that. In recent times, we had the roadmap before, but that roadmap was actually made when hardly any vaccination had been carried out. The latest version is in February, containing a number of indicators and a number of measures per level of risk. Of course, this applies to a decreasing extent. In the meantime, you can really assess the level of risk differently, because the number of infections is much less decisive for the number of hospitalisations. We have seen that terrible peak in the number of infections, but that has not actually led to the actual compromising of the objectives of the approach, and we will not see that in the future either. We're not safe with that yet. It is not that you can get rid of all the measures, the OMT also says, but it is that you really have to make the risk assessment in a different way because the number of infections is really different to the number of hospital admissions. I have already promised your Chamber that we will come up with an approach for the autumn, actually a successor to the current roadmap. We would like to present it to your Chamber in September. That will be before that date of September 20th. This also offers the opportunity to discuss this with each other. I would also like to come back to the question that I think is rightly raised by Mrs Kikken, which is what the new indicators are. These infections simply relate to hospitalisations in a different way, so you will have to make some changes to those indicators. Not so much in terms of targets, because I believe that the objectives of the approach are actually unchanged: protecting vulnerable people, protecting care from overload. However, the indicators for which you should really be concerned and from what point in time the further intervention will be legitimised will change. In any case, less with regard to hospitalisations than with regard to contagion. Mrs Bikker asks: that also means that we have to look in another way at what legitimacy still exists for the measures that are actually in the law, in the temporary law? That's right. We have had this debate a number of times, and I have referred to it as the 'Bikkerkey'. You asked that question consistently and consistently when you were in the First Chamber, but also when you started in the Second Chamber on the same subject. We're definitely gonna do that. With each extension, as a cabinet, we have to argue again: is this measure really still necessary and proportionate and is it legitimised given the potential risks that exist at any time? There will also come a time when you say: yes, but now the temporality of the temporary law has really worked out. That is also what Mr Van der Staaij has been advocating on a number of occasions. Which means you're gonna have to go back to the Wpg at some point. In addition, you may have learned a number of lessons and you will have to do a number of things differently in the Public Health Act, but at least there is no ID for the extension of the temporary law. We're not there yet, so I'm really expecting an extension of the temporary law by the fourth quarter of this year, this autumn. So we are not there yet, but there will be a time when we will be there and at least there will be no more identification for the renewal of that temporary law over and over again. We will indeed indicate by measure what is still the epidemiological need for this. Mrs Bikker says: but now there may also be a measure. We've actually already started the legal process on that, so that law is already in the Chamber. A number of groups have asked: when will this note finally come from the report? We'll send it. This concerns, for example, a situation in which there is a cluster contamination at a location. If such contamination is actually a persistent danger to health, what are the possibilities for local authority to close that site for some time? That's actually the essence of the bill. The cabinet has decided to propose this law to the Chamber, parliamentary examination has begun, a report has been prepared, and a note on the report must also be drawn up. But at the end of course it is up to the Chamber, especially by legislation, to say: we accept this law or not. But at least as a cabinet, let us not make the discussion impossible by not even sending that note on the basis of the report. I'm sure you'll get that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u180	Mrs Bikker has a question on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u181	That is reason enough, but I asked the VWS Minister to consider proportionality and subsidiarity very specifically, precisely because it also sees a restriction of fundamental rights. At a time when the epidemiological situation is actually more favourable, the proposal of a law with a new containment does reduce the need for a very heavy test, including on the part of the government. Well, the report is coming and I'm going to see it, but I would just like to ask the Minister to pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u182	This question is quite right. I believe that these questions have already been raised in the report by Mrs Bikker, but also by people from other groups. We will therefore pay very much attention to this, particularly in view of the new situation we are in. It must of course be highlighted that we now have a high vaccination rate and everyone has had the chance to be vaccinated. Yeah, sure. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I think I should just go into the procedure in this small block. In any case, Mrs Bikker gave reason to answer that question in that way, and I am committed to saying the following. A number of pending procedures will be in place in the near future. Of course, we're looking at that September 20th. By the way, I have to say to everyone who has heard in the words of 20 September that it will happen on that date: we simply do not dare to say that at the moment. We will really need a new OMT advice to dare to make the choice that 20 September is indeed the time when you could get rid of the one-and-a-half meter measure, with a number of restrictions. And if so, with what restrictions? However, in our decision we have now worked out as clearly and concretely as possible how we see this 20 September. We have done so knowingly and for good reason. This means that these choices, not only for now, but also for the decision-making on 20 September, are in fact already being made now, of course, on the condition that the epidemiological situation allows it. That concreteity is already in the current letter. We are, of course, taking today's debate with us. The results of this will be translated into the AMvB which should set the distance standard to 0, and into the scheme that must have been preset before it can enter. Those are just the obligations arising from the Twm, the Temporary Law measures covid-19. This means that on 7 September the Chamber will be sent both the draft regulation and the concept AMMvB. The content of this is no surprise. The content of this is already in the letter that has been submitted to you. We will also send the regulation and the AMvB to the Chamber, but we will not take an advance on the decision that we can only take on 17 September and that will then take effect on 20 September, or will not take effect on 20 September. I would like to say that you have already had the content and have actually already had the debate on it. In the end, of course, the Chamber always deals with its own agenda, but it is not necessary to schedule a new debate after 7 September. We will, of course, deal with both matters, but you already know their content on the basis of the current letter, which we have already had this debate on. I would like to draw your attention to this procedure for a moment. I'm going to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u183	Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u184	It's almost a point of order. It's nice to know what we're talking about later, but the schools are about to open. It is already tight to assess exactly what effect that will have on 17 September. It is also difficult to predict what the R-value will do, what the R-value will do in the month. It is therefore good to be able to issue directives in advance, perhaps before 17 September, on the basis of arrangements, but then too we will have to act on the basis of what is going on. I do not like crisis communication based on wishful thinking, but I also do not like making directional statements without knowing where we are in two weeks' time. I hope the Minister understands that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u185	Of course. Don't get me wrong, by the way: every moment you call us to the Chamber, we will be there. That's not the point. Normally there is such a rhythm in which you have a decision and then an arrangement, a follow-up procedure and then a debate on it. We've done it a couple of times. In this case, the decision-making process will look slightly different, because it is in the longer term because of the AMvB. That was the only thing I meant to sketch. Of course it is up to your Chamber to give orders to the Cabinet tonight, but also to do so at some point in the meantime. Then I'll go on to the vaccination. We have now reached a very high vaccination rate. That's really something to be grateful for. At the same time, a decent group has not been immunized. That doesn't necessarily mean they haven't been vaccinated. Yeah, that's what we're talking about, about 15% of the adult Dutch. But some of those people have been through the disease and are building up immunity. The height and homogeneity of the vaccination rate is one of the most determining risk factors for this autumn. Which means we're not ready now that we've reached that high vaccination rate. Although 85% is really something very special, we naturally want to see if we can go further, especially for specific groups. We also really think that there is still room to further increase the vaccination rate, although we will not be able to do so as massively as we have done. It's gonna have to be punctured. That also means that there must be hard work to get every shot. The VVD, D66, the CDA and also the SP have asked a number of questions about this and focus on what you could do with young people. But maybe I should start by saying in general terms what the approach looks like now. The VVD... no, the GD! I said "VVD" by mistake. Maybe they do, you know; I don't really know. The GGD and RIVM collect very targeted information about the vaccination rate. They do so by age group and also by zip code. We combine that with CBS data. This way you will find out much more specifically in which target groups there is still work to do on the vaccination rate. As far as age groups are concerned, we are quite sure. We know that in everything under 35 the vaccination rate is below that nice average. Mrs Marijnissen rightly said that. It's okay up there, but underneath it, the vaccination rate is really behind. That's not always a question of unwillingness. I believe that is what Mr Paternotte said. It is not that these people would necessarily be against vaccination or anything, or should come very far to be convinced. For a lot of people and especially for young people: the more thresholdless you offer it, the more the willingness to be vaccinated increases. We see this in particular in the gap between the surveyed vaccination readiness and the actual number of punctures. We are therefore counting on young people in particular to make a lot of profit if you are there during the introduction weeks at the universities with your GGD-Pickbox, if you are there later on in the school squares in vo or if you are in the mbo just as close as possible to such a location. That is why the large, massive GGD operation as it has worked over the past few months is now being converted into a much smaller, much more sophisticated structure to approach every target group, every district, every schoolyard and every university and see if we can gradually increase vaccination rates there. Then it was asked: is there also a need for extra bets on the 50-plussers? In addition, we assume, of course, that they are no longer in university. There is another answer to that. 50-plussers have now received a number of repeat calls. Anyway, everyone who has been invited has received a repeat call. That doesn't mean that all 50-plusers have been vaccinated, but there is a group that hasn't been vaccinated yet, not even now with pricking without an appointment, which can really be very close in many locations. Mrs De Vries asked for that. Of course, we have to keep that really accessible to the people. That can no longer be done at 140 locations, as we had, but it must remain accessible to the people. Those 50-plussers can now walk in there without an appointment. That is why the obstacle is very small. The invitation has really been a number of times. So the question is whether generic calls could still be of added value. I'm gonna find out if that could be of added value. I think it is important that we try to approach people through key figures, because they are always 50-plussers of a certain target group. Sometimes it is the people in the Afrikaanderwijk, for example, who have a great distance to reach suitable information. Then we provide multilingual information and key figures, such as general practitioners or imams, who help in the neighbourhood. In the bible, that works quite differently. You also have to look geographically at the differences and the possibilities for settling those thresholds. I'm sure I'll take your suggestion with me. Know that we are currently doing it more specifically within the target group of unvaccinated 18-plussers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u186	I cannot fail to compliment the Minister on his beard. I see the throne standing behind it. That brings him more in line with the monarch's look and feel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u187	It's horrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u188	I share the Prime Minister's view, but let me not leave that compliment unnamed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u189	Speak boldly of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u190	Then my question. Very good, that there's a prick bus for young people at the introduction week. I see them, too, and I see groups gathering around them. That's very nice and important. There's still a lot of profit to be made. At the same time, one percent of the 50-plussers are making more profit in terms of pressure on care and hospitalisations than 10% for young people. That's the way it is. If you look at the figures in Ireland and Denmark, you could say that there are three times fewer 50-plussers not vaccinated than in us, relative. Then I think there should be a profit there, especially if you see that willingness. I mention calling as a suggestion, because they do so in Denmark. I also find it interesting to make it possible to walk into the pharmacy, as they do in America. I would particularly like to know what explains that we are still a little lower in this respect. Of course it is quite high, quite good, but I see that countries that look like us are still a lot further. Then I think: if we can achieve that, the pressure on the care is so much lower that it really matters this winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u191	In general, Denmark is not further away but is reasonably comparable. I'll take that from the 50-plussers. I don't know exactly what the differences are, but I think it's very good to see what they're doing there specifically with those 50-plussers. I am less enthusiastic about the suggestion about the pharmacy, because that is de facto what we are already doing, namely to offer a location nearby where you can go without an appointment. If you wanted that at the pharmacy, that would lead to huge spilling, because you have to empty that jar again, so I don't think that's a very good idea. Young people still have the largest percentage to vaccinate, so there is a lot of profit to be made there. If you actually put a punchbox on the square at the average university, college or mbo and you manage to convince some of the people who come there, then you do make big strides. So it would be very nice if we could do that. But I'd also like to get to work on that suggestion about the 50-plussers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u192	The pharmacy seems to have helped a lot in some states in America. There are also states that have a higher vaccination rate than we do. Those happen to be the states where Donald Trump was less popular, it seems. You could walk into the drugstore or the pharmacy and get the shot right away. Of course, that's very low-threshold. Then it's someone you've seen before. That's where risk groups come in. Pharmacies now also offer it themselves. Are you not willing to talk to them about whether you can make that possible, for example at the larger locations? Anything that can work can contribute. In Friesland a pilot now runs with it. I think that we should look for such possibilities, because it is precisely those 50-pluss who are able to earn the profits in terms of pressure on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u193	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u194	There are also reasons to be less enthusiastic about it. The possibilities are similar to possibilities that already exist, namely walking in and poking without an appointment. But you're gonna have to set up a whole new registration for it. The risk of spilling is of course also life-size, if you have a pharmacy that has some jars in the fridge. That can't be Pfizer, because the cooling conditions are too complicated for that, so that will have to be Astra or Janssen. Then you open a jar for the one gentleman who walks in and the rest of it you can throw away because there's no next one. In that respect, it is rather inefficient, frankly, so I do not think it has that much added value and brings a whole lot of new stuff. That makes me less enthusiastic at first. Of course, that doesn't mean we don't want to have that conversation at all. I'd love to have that conversation, but I don't think there's a wildly enthusiastic answer coming from behind. But for the 50-plussers, I think it's a different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u195	The minister's talking about "close." I think it's important that people walk in easily. In my own province, Fryslân, for example, there is only a location left in Leeuwarden, while there are also regions in Friesland where vaccination rates are really lower. I think it is very important that the Minister not only leaves to the GGDs what needs to be done and how it is done, but that he really makes agreements with the GGDs: that it should be close and easy to reach. In Drenthe, for example, you have no possibility of pricking without an appointment; that was at least two days ago, if you typed in the location. I would therefore like more direction from the Minister. Can he promise that he will at least agree on these things, so that it remains accessible and accessible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u196	Yes, albeit with one remark. Yeah, I want it to stay accessible, but you can't maintain the same fine-meshed, large network of locations that is now in place. I think those stings without appointment locations should be easily accessible. Apart from the fixed locations, there will of course be a lot more mobile locations and pop-up locations. That is "the nearest thing" to replace it, and that could be closer and more accessible to a lot of people than it is today. So it is not the case that the vaccination operation is dismantled because the people, the upper arms, are up; on the contrary, there are still a lot of upper arms to do. It is much more labour-intensive to achieve it. To free up all that human power to do that labor-intensive work, you have to dim a little bit at the number of fixed, large vaccination sites. This allows you to free people you can put to work in mobile locations in the neighbourhood, in the village centers and so on. But that is so regionally determined that I have to lean very much on the GD's for that. I can't possibly do that from The Hague, I guess. But the conversation with the GGD's is of course about accessibility: close to home, accessible to the people. That is also their own commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u197	I would like to share with the Minister that many of the objections I hear from people who do not want to be vaccinated have little to do with the accessibility and accessibility of the sites, but above all with distrust, which has arisen from the recent policy of vaccinations, for example. We're going from golf to golf, from press conference to press conference. Many people say: I have very little confidence in the policy and strategy that have been set out. I am very curious to hear from the Minister how he thinks he can restore confidence and how he thinks that people, especially those over 50, should be persuaded to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u198	To be honest, I think you can see from the figures that the vaccination rate is very high. It keeps rising, too. As the vaccination campaign progresses and the time passes, vaccination readiness increases. That's what we actually see among all age groups. In the group that was next or would be next in the short term, we saw an increase each time. I therefore believe that we should congratulate ourselves on the great confidence in the vaccination campaign and a very high willingness to be vaccinated. I think that's what separates us from a lot of other countries. But that's not what we're here for, because we still have work to do. We have 1.8 million people the OMT says haven't built up immunity. They are therefore the main risk of overloading care towards the autumn. We will therefore have to succeed in achieving as much of the 1.8 million that have not been vaccinated and have not been through the disease as possible. In any case, a low-threshold approach is crucial for this. Combating disinformation, on which we set out a great many actions, is crucial, as is appealing to each other when we hear here in this Chamber that confidence in vaccination as a way out of this crisis is actively undermined. All these things added up will eventually lead to an even higher vaccination rate. I really think there's room there. Of course, we're not going to reach 100%, but that's not happening anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u199	I have two comments to make on this reply. You were very much in agreement with Mr Paternotte, who said: there is certainly something to be gained from the 50-plussers. Hence my question, particularly aimed at 50-plussers. My question is, of course, how? Of course, we must prevent disinformation. Of course, we need to restore confidence. The question is, and I asked it in my contribution: what is your view on this and how are you going to achieve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u200	One example I have mentioned a number of times and explained in the letters to your Chamber is what we do in a neighborhood where I live nearby, the Afrikaanderwijk, where I know the vaccination rate is very low. That means you're really gonna have to be active in that neighborhood. How do we do that? We'll do that by setting up the puncture site in that neighborhood, so we'll do it through a prick bus. And then you do that by working with key figures in that neighborhood, such as the imam of the mosque, who makes a big contribution, but also the general practitioners who have a great network among their patients. Together you try to reach people when there is another African market. That's one of the ways, but that approach doesn't work at the bible. There's a whole different approach. It is announced that the prick bus is present in the village. Sometimes that is a little less in the square, because it helps people who do not necessarily want all their villagers to know that they are being vaccinated. For example, you have to opt for an approach that fits the region or the district, which is consistent with overcoming the thresholds that exist. We will not stop until we have used the very last opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u201	I am very happy to hear that there is specific attention for those groups that are generally difficult to reach, for example in the Afrikaanderwijk or in the bible. The people I referred to, who feel addressed by the people here, in this Chamber, at least spread disinformation, that's what I call it, but those aren't these groups. Those are groups with a very different demographic. Those are the groups that my question is really about. Those are the people I speak to, for example, SMEs or entrepreneurs, who say that they are so affected by this policy, that they are sent from the locker to the wall, that they no longer trust what the minister says, that they have no fiduciary that if they let themselves be vaccinated, they actually save themselves, their business and their customers. There is rebellion and that really has to do with the fact that they have seen that it is claimed that after one shot you can immediately party and stand up to each other sweating. This has to do with the fact that they have seen that, if they send their children to school, those children will be at the centre of the spread. Apart from those specific groups mentioned by the Minister, how are we going to ensure that well-thinking, reasonably well-educated Dutch people also feel addressed by the vaccination strategy or at all the strategy around corona?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u202	Again, if you look at the vaccination readiness in the Netherlands, it is very high. This means that confidence in the vaccination or the vaccination campaign is high. Every time we measure that, and we do that once every three weeks, we see that it's just a little higher than the time before. That's something to be very grateful for, so don't get all gloomy. I think that in general vaccination readiness is very high in the Netherlands, and rightly so. If you want to get rid of these measures, then the fastest way is, of course, to embrace vaccination as a way out of this crisis instead of making it suspicious. That has also been my criticism in this house, and that is also what we have to say to each other, if there is disinformation or undermining information. I think it is necessary to repeat that. As time passes, the ferocity with which that information is disseminated also increases. That means that we must continue to contradict that information. The approach to disinformation is, of course, even more gross, so we are doing even more on that point. I also think it is necessary to disprove disinformation over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u203	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u204	I thought I would get an answer with which I would be completely content, so I could walk to my place, but I'm actually curious if the Minister is at least willing to acknowledge that dancing with Janssen was disinformation. You can now get pricked and in a few hours you can join the club. Didn't that turn out to be disinformation? I think that is where the problem lies. If we ourselves as a government distribute disinformation, we can hardly expect people to follow the policy with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u205	I believe that Mrs Simons is now making all kinds of links that are not there. I don't think people in the corner don't want to be vaccinated because they're afraid of being injected with chips, only association with dancing with Janssen. I don't believe that. By the way, I think the whole dancing with Janssen is made way too big. The point is that we did not use a waiting period for that discussion during the previous debate, in the situation that the risks of infection were very low, so when the number of infectious diseases was very low. Then we said: let's not wait for a moment to lead to a QR code after vaccination. We have recovered this quite quickly, when the level of infection started to rise, by setting the waiting period. However, we had that debate in detail last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u206	I appreciate all the initiatives, from VWS, from the minister and from the GGDs, which ensure that more people are willing to be vaccinated. Of course, we know the whole palette of factors that prevent people from doing so: disinformation, not being mobile and so on. An important role in this is also played by the district nurse. That's what we talked about last time. In the state of affairs letter I missed the section on the district nurse, while we discussed it extensively last time. Wouldn't it be a good idea to add to that whole palette of initiatives the neighborhood nurse? He comes to the people's house and enjoys confidence, because I can say, Hugo de Jonge can say it, everyone here can say it, but such a neighborhood nurse comes to the people's house and enjoys confidence. I think it would be good to add that to the whole palette. That's my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u207	I will give the answer in this way, but let me at least take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Kuzu on having been vaccinated and being open about it. You know how to reach the people in the Afrikaanderwijk. A little too good around election time, I think, but in this case I think: it is very good that you are able to reach those people and that they are also taking an example from you. I very much welcome that. So great appreciation for that. I have already said this in the direction of Mr Wilders. For Mr Wilders too, it is not always easy to reach his constituents by means of public sector information. Let it vaccinate you and set an example, that's very important. Then the neighborhood nurses. The previous debate we had on this was in the context of home vaccination. The question was: are they needed for that? That was an option for a while, but it was no longer necessary. Are they needed to try to convince people? Oh, yeah. Those kinds of conversations, what could you possibly mean in there? Of course, they are also fed. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u208	Of course, I would like to receive the Minister's compliments. I would like to invite the Minister to join me on a Saturday afternoon at the Afrikaander market, because I think the Minister underestimates his role.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u209	I'd love to. We're gonna man a prick bus together at the Afrikaander Market. Yeah, nice. A number of questions have been asked about the booster shot. The Health Council and the OMT announced on 17 June in an initial reaction that it is still a little early to make a statement on this matter. A number of countries have already decided to do so. By the way, if you look more closely at those decisions, you can see that it is often about boostering the vulnerable and not about generic boosters. The question is whether we are also looking at the people who have had AstraZeneca. The answer to that is yes. We have asked the question at all to what extent a booster is needed and, if so, when. The same applies to the people who had AstraZeneca and also to the people who had Janssen. I expect to receive an opinion from the Health Council in September on how to deal with this. The second question that was asked was Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Bikker. Surely we are not going to give a booster shot here if the rest of the world hasn't been vaccinated yet? I don't think you can put it so black and white and you don't have to put it. That question could be asked at the moment when the vaccines we put here as a booster are at the expense of the vaccines we are going to donate. If you look at what we're going to donate, it's at least 20 million, probably between 20 and 25 million. I dare say that if we take stock of the situation in December, we will have donated more vaccines than we have used ourselves in the Netherlands. We have this luxury because we have bought so many vaccines. It's also our moral obligation. I think that's the point Mrs Bikker and Mrs Westerveld made. The CDA also made that point. I really believe that we have that moral obligation. On top of that, we also have the epidemiological obligation. Because we won't be safe until we're all safe. Mrs Gündoğan often says the same thing. That's why we just contribute to the vaccination of the rest of the world. Should we be shy about using the booster shot or not? I don't think so. The booster shot is not expected to be generic in the short term. That will be the case for some of the people. So we don't have to or-or do it, but we can and-and do it. We can also continue to donate large numbers, and the group that really benefits from additional protection through a booster shot, which provides additional protection. We can both really do that. When the opinion comes, I will, of course, share it with your Chamber, as well as the cabinet decision that we are involved with. I believe it was Mrs Westerveld who asked whether we really included the WTO opinion. I think that the WHO gave this opinion because it was feared that all the rich Western countries would give third pricks to everyone in the context of 'better be safe than sorry', while the rest of the world has not yet had its turn. I can honestly see that doesn't happen that way. With every shot to be made, we always have to make the balance, including the ethical balance: is it sensible and necessary to give this shot? You shouldn't want to give a shot that isn't necessary. That's it about the booster. Then the vaccine donations at all. The CDA asked about the vaccinations to COVAX and how it works on the budget of OS. The answer is not. A very few times, the Foreign Office pays for the flight, but not even from the OS budget. That's what happens when you make a donation. The rest of the costs will be covered from VWS. That's just surplus added budget, with which we bought all the vaccines. We're just gonna use those vaccines. We like to share what we have. Mrs Kuik asks about the 20 million vaccines to be donated; put that in time. My estimate is that at least we're gonna donate that $20 million. I think it's going towards the 25 million this year, just as dependent on deliveries. They are sometimes a bit disappointing, for example from Janssen. We expected quite a lot of that in Q3 and Q4. We are now on 1.5 million donated vaccines to a number of countries, including Suriname, Cape Verde, Namibia and Indonesia and to COVAX itself. 1.5 million donated vaccines, including 500,000 to COVAX. That number is going to increase in the near future. It's really the beginning. It is therefore mainly a question of whether deliveries are maintained. That's all that matters. We've already made a reservation for booster vaccines, and we've already pulled them off. Mr Wassenberg asks what it means that immunity in the case of vaccinees will be reduced step by step and whether the cabinet will take this into account. I could have answered that question in another block, but the answer is: yes, the cabinet takes that into account. By the way, the good news is that the accumulated immunity after vaccination lasts quite well. She's not taking so much away. That's very special to see. Mr Van Houwelingen had a similar question. This is also the answer to that. Then I come to the questions related to working with...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u210	There is another question from Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked the question because it does have meaning. Let me give you an example. I was with both my parents when they were vaccinated. It was in the middle of March in a conference hall in beautiful Maastricht. That was six months ago. Pfizer's director says the vaccine's efficacy decreases by 6% every two months. You start with 96% protection by Pfizer. He says you're still at 84% after four months. In my parents' specific case, you're already under 80%, and that goes on and on. How is this taken into account in vaccination certificates and QR codes? After all, they are becoming less and less valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u212	My first point is that this is a good thing. We know that in the case of older people, as age increases, the accumulated immunity after vaccination decreases at all. Especially with the mRNA vaccines, it stays quite high. This has been the reason for the Health Council to advise those mRNA vaccines specifically for older target groups. Two is that we do see that immunity decreases, but that it goes so slowly and gradually that we have the luxury of thinking about the booster shot. The third is: this is the discussion that will be taken into account when assessing which people will need this booster vaccination. Of course, a vaccine never covers 100%. To what extent a vaccine protects you, everything has to do with the power of your own immune system. In that combination, it provides protection. It may well be that the Health Council says: for the sake of certainty, do it for a certain part of vulnerable groups and put a booster vaccine for those target groups. That doesn't even have to be at an age, it can also be about people we know have a compromised immune system. But it is now up to the Health Council to determine that and to advise us on that. This is how we try to maintain the immunity of the people at all. Decreasing immunity after vaccination or after an infection is one of the uncertainties for this autumn. How do we work on that? By asking for advice on booster vaccination in good time. The operation is already being prepared, regardless of the target groups involved. The vaccines themselves are already ready to put that booster vaccination in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u213	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks and then to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u214	Yes, on this subject, Mr. Chairman. The outgoing minister says it's not or-or just and-and. We can also donate what we do quite a lot and put stings here. That statement would go up when the world's production capacity is infinite. But that's not the case right now. Every shot we put here is currently at the expense of available vaccines for other countries, where in some places only 1.5% of the population have been vaccinated. Now the WHO says: "Every country should actually be able to give at least 10% of the population a vaccine, so that at least you have vaccinated the care workers and the most vulnerable people. I would like to ask the Minister how he sees that statement. Does he agree with that? In the Netherlands, too, can we not proceed with a booster shot until we have ensured that not only are we but all the rich countries, which in the poor countries have at least 10% of the people access to vaccination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u215	I have heard the WHO's statement in the light of the debate that has been taking place in many countries, namely: let us put a booster vaccine as soon as possible, generic for the population as a whole. The WHO, as I understand it, has rightly said: do not do that for a moment, because these vaccines are not endless. As long as there is still a shortage, we must ensure that all countries have access to vaccines. The question of advice towards the Health Council is: who would need a booster vaccine? That's not the intention of giving everyone that booster. Then it's about your own vulnerable people, the vulnerable people who live in the Netherlands. Where we have vaccines at our disposal and we can donate them and at the same time protect our most vulnerable people with booster vaccines better and extra, I do not think it is necessarily an or choice but an and-and-choice. I think it is good and good that we are in that position as the Netherlands. It is something you are grateful for every day that you live in the Netherlands, where we can apparently afford this kind of luxury. So no, I don't want to say that we're not gonna do a booster shot in the Netherlands until we've vaccinated the rest of the world, because I think we'd be failing our own vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u216	Thank you. Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u217	I can't really make chocolate out of it right now. I just heard the Minister admit that the effectiveness of Pfizer vaccines is decreasing. However, there is no restriction on corona passports, while the restorative certificates are valid for only six months. We have seen in recent research that just that natural immunity is probably a much more robust form of immunity. Well, then it must be the other way around, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u218	No. That was mainly about limiting those 180 days. This simply has to do with the fact that we have not had very much experience with this. If that could get any longer, then I am not opposed to it being able to go on any longer. By the way, the accumulated immunity after vaccination lasts quite a long time. Of course, we have been able to investigate this, because some of those people have been vaccinated before, including in that clinical trial. You just know that immunity lasts a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u219	Let me put it this way. You yourself have just said that the effectiveness of the vaccines is gradually decreasing. I think we all agree on that. The immunity obtained by natural infection, if your body has thus overcome it itself, is at least at the same level, probably at a higher level. That's the state of science. So you're gonna be immune longer. You have stronger antibodies. How can you say that a limit of 180 days is set there, when we do not do so at the vaccinations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u220	You start by saying: we all know that the antibodies are decreasing. One of the risk factors for autumn is, of course, the reduction of antibodies, after vaccination or infection, that doesn't matter. There will be decreasing immunity. What is so special about the vaccines we have is that there is a very high level of effectiveness and that a very high level of protection still lasts for quite a long time. I think that we should emphasise this, because that is very special. Then you ask: but those 180 days, that cutting-off point at those 180 days with regard to having experienced that infection yourself? That is now, on the basis of the latest state of science, the decision. That is what I am saying. It is not a law of Medes and Persians that it must not be longer than six months ago. We just haven't had much time to actually investigate that. If you could do that longer, if the outcome would be that the degree of immunity lasts for so long that you could give that QR proof a few months later, then of course I am very willing to adapt it. As soon as that knowledge becomes available, we are going to act on that knowledge again. There's no politics in this, I mean. This is just acting to the latest state of science.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u221	Of course, we're not getting out of this. I can send you the studies, if that makes any sense. What I understand is that science says it's the other way around. You'll be protected longer if you've been through the natural infection. So we don't agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u222	No. You can't say that generic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u223	The minister's moving on to his third block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u224	Yes, the tickets and the more political theme to what extent there is a vaccination obligation when you ask for your own contribution to a ticket. First of all, working with tickets and the questions that have been asked about the test side. Mrs De Vries said that people who have had two vaccinations sometimes cannot create a QR code in that CoronaCheck. Then what are the problems? We've helped a lot of people get such a QR code by now. It is actually very special that it has worked so well in such a short time, but there is indeed a number of people who have had some troubles with it. In the beginning, that was certainly the case. That has been greatly reduced, because we have been able to eliminate most of the causes of these problems. There are still a number of issues going on. It might go a little too far in technology if I explain that completely. They are mainly data-related issues, names that don't exactly match. That is especially the case when you have special signs in your name, with double dots on them and so on. Then he would like to fail if it was different in one registration than in the other registration. It's all gonna be fixed. For all these cases we have also made a kind of bypass, so that we can help people with a QR code or proof in the CoranaCheck app. Then there are really very special cases that you didn't think of in advance that you still had them. We are really trying to find a solution for each problem individually. In 99% of cases, things just go well. In those cases where it doesn't go well yet, a bypass is made to make it go well. I will simply inform you again every letter of the last issues that are still going on and the last issues that have already been resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u225	Before you go any further, there is a question from Mrs De Vries, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u226	There's a bypass somewhere. I see a lot coming by on Twitter: send us a dm from the GGD. The question is where people can go, because I hear a lot of stories that people are being sent from the locker to the wall or that everyone is referring to each other. There are people who say: I had the first AstraZenecaprik and the sequel was Pfizer, now the doctor cannot put it in the system. Where can we go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u227	To prevent me from calling you all the possibilities: on coronacheck.nl you will see the issues that play and also where you can go for a solution. Now Mrs De Vries asked what was done with the motions from the previous debate on testing for access. Of course, we started working on that. The OMT has been asked for an opinion for the 122nd time, this time on the conditions under which events can continue. In doing so, the conditions of the field labs serve to a large extent as a starting point. These results were taken into account in the letter of 2 August of the 122nd OMT Opinion and, on the basis of that opinion, more clarity is needed in the event sector. What are the lessons learned for testing passengers and the QR codes provided there? 2.3 million tests were carried out until mid-August. By the way, there is a set of questions from you and Mr Paternotte. The answers to that are just coming your way. Let me do this very briefly. In that answer we also indicated what did not go well at the very beginning with those providers. By the way, 750 test sites have been set up in no time and 2.3 million tests have been carried out there. Of course, most of it went well. I think it's good to see that. But for any traveler who has not been able to make his journey somewhere due to a mistake, it is of course incredibly annoying. We have found that a number of providers have not done quite the right thing. That's what started the conversation. All commercial test providers for your trip have of course also been reminded in a letter of all these things: the required quality of service that they need to show and the fact that if the complaints continue to occur, they would intervene. In addition, we have recently decided that the free testing for your trip will be extended by one month until 1 October. Then perhaps the more political questions associated with working with corona tickets, because the question has been asked as to what is going to happen now if you ask for your own payment. Aren't you de facto introducing something of a vaccination compulsion or urge? I really want to emphasise once again that the cabinet does not choose to do so. You have tabled motions as a chamber on this matter. That whole debate started with the Segers motion and that motion asks for an opinion from the Health Council before we even started working on testing for access. Also in preparation for the situation that part of society would have been vaccinated and not part of it. On the basis of the opinion of the Health Council, I believe that came that in February our line was formulated, and that line has been consistent from the outset in the view that a directly or indirectly mandatory form of vaccination, mandatory vaccination, does not fit. Fortunately, we can now say that such an obligation is not necessary either, given the very high vaccination rate. It's just not necessary to do it and that's why we're not gonna do it. In addition, it is undesirable for a very large number of reasons, and it is also really at odds, one might say, with many legal provisions, including Article 11 of the Constitution. It's about physical integrity, and it doesn't fit in with a vaccination obligation. Vaccination is a free choice, but that does not make it a non-binding choice. That's what we've always said. Vaccination is not a non-binding choice. Vaccination is incredibly important, not only to protect yourself, but also to protect each other. You can't ask the cabinet for a neutral stance on that point. We will always argue that vaccination is incredibly important, and all kinds of incentive are allowed not only to use, but also to use wisely. That doesn't make everything legal, of course not. Not on the basis of laws and regulations, but not because I know very well the views of your Chamber. But it does mean that all kinds of incentive are, of course, justified. This brings us to the debate on the proposal to ask for our own contribution to testing for access and to make testing for access mandatory to meet in larger groups than those 75. Is that a form of compulsion or a form of urge? I never use the word urge like that myself, because it is not very clear what is meant by it. So we have often talked about a direct or indirect duty. I sincerely believe that this is neither a duty nor an indirect duty. I would like to explain that. From the outset, as a cabinet, we have taken the view that if we start testing for access, it is permissible to ask for our own contribution. I know there was a lot of fuss about that. I also know that this has led the Chamber to say: well, not at all, because not everyone has had the chance to be vaccinated; so we are not going to ask for that contribution. That was the fraternity we had before the summer break. I believe that this has led to an amendment by Mr Van der Staaij. This also led to the law that the VWS Minister makes those tests available, and therefore does not have its own contribution. But, of course, we're in a different phase now. We are at a stage in which everyone has at least had the chance to have themselves vaccinated, at least here we are around 1 September. Then everyone has been given the opportunity to be invited et cetera. This brings the discussion to the mat again: would it then be allowed to ask for its own contribution? I understand everyone who says: that depends only on it; if that own contribution becomes so high that it de facto hinders access to an event, a festival or a catering establishment with more than 75 people, then that obstacle will be very great. This will make the incentive towards vaccination all too strong, you might say. So it can never be a high contribution of your own, but that you ask for your own contribution and that once the costs of testing for access to society will be put to an end, that of course makes sense. At least that makes sense to the cabinet. We have not yet set the date, because we felt it was important to have that debate here with your Chamber first. If we have to do that, then we will simply have to prepare a legislative amendment. You can't do that right now. That has to do with Van der Staaij's amendment. I thought it was Van der Staaij; otherwise it was another. It is in any case an amendment and it simply states in the law that those tests are not made available. So if you want to ask for your own contribution, you will have to change the law on that point. Was it Mrs. Bikker? It was Mrs. Bikker. In short, depending on this debate too, we will set that path in motion or not. After the cabinet had long held the view that a contribution of its own could be requested at some point and that this was legitimized, your Chamber said: no, not for the time being. So we haven't done it for a while, but now we're in a new phase. The cabinet found, and found, that legitimized. The argument is therefore also: the principle of profit. In addition to this, I have wanted to be so honest, I would say to Mr Wilders that if an incentive is understood in the direction of vaccination, I understand that. That's exactly what it's supposed to be. That is fine, albeit the aim is to introduce the principle of profit, because we thought that was reasonable from the outset. Is that an indirect duty or something? No, we really don't see it that way. It is really possible to avoid vaccination, even after some of your own contribution has been introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u228	You have an interruption by Mrs Marijnissen of the SP and then by Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP and Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u229	Here's what's troubling me. I just had a debate on this with Mr Paternotte. The Minister's doing it now. He says: I think "excited" is actually a complicated word; I don't know how to use it, so I prefer not to use it. But we have always heard of the cabinet: no, no vaccination pressure and no vaccination urge. If we now analyse the cabinet's proposal very clearly, it simply means that you are going to exclude a group of people, namely people who do not want or can be vaccinated and who, for example, cannot pay for that test. Because now it has to be paid for as well. Then it would be a good thing, even for the purity of the political debate, for the government to acknowledge that this is at least the path of vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u230	I'll tell you why I don't think so. First of all, just the precision in the concepts. The word "vaccination urge." 'Screw' and'screw', these two concepts are the result of Mr Wilders' motion. Those were not the words of the cabinet. In order to avoid this confusion of speech, I have always talked about 'vaccination obligation'. That was the content of that debate at the time. When it was said: an indirect vaccination obligation, is that perhaps a good idea? We have also said immediately, in that debate: no, that is not a good idea. So no direct duty and no indirect duty either. Then, of course, you could say: when is there such an indirect duty? That could be, for example, if you work with tickets and only one form of a ticket is possible and that is a vaccination certificate. That's exactly what we're deliberately not choosing. We have those three options: a recovery certificate, a negative test result or a vaccination certificate, which may give rise to such a QR code to enter. Suppose you lose your job if you haven't been vaccinated. None of that is very Dutch in those proportions. That is also de facto not a vaccination obligation generic, but you could understand that as an indirect vaccination obligation. 'Cause who wants to lose their job? That's not an honest choice, is it? Of course, we don't choose for all these elements. Nobody wants that anyway, so it's not a discussion at all. But that is a vaccination obligation or an indirect vaccination obligation. We don't all choose to do that. Then what we do. That is actually the core of what the cabinet has long felt when testing for access, namely that it is quite reasonable to ask for an own contribution at some point, if everyone has been able to be vaccinated. The Chamber didn't think so at the time. That's the one who changed that out. The cabinet thought so. And, fair enough, that also belongs in the relationship between Cabinet and Chamber. That is why I wanted to report to the Chamber honestly before we prepare a legislative proposal that we will consider this again, because we think that is reasonable. In addition, the main objective is not to stimulate vaccination. However, I wanted to answer the question honestly whether that would not mean that people might say: vaccination, because I don't feel like testing every time and certainly not if I have to pay €7.50 or something like that. Then I said: "If an incentive is, it may be understandable, and that is not so bad at all. Maybe that's a good idea. That's not so bad at all." But that cannot be understood as a direct vaccination obligation and not as an indirect vaccination obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u231	However, the Minister will not be able to deny that it will be explained in this way by that group, which may already be sceptical about science and which may already be sceptical about vaccination. Now the amount falls again, for example, of €7.50. If you put that on the desire to introduce it at the time you go to an occasion of more than 75 people.... that's just any average theatre, that's every bit of a big catering establishment... it's just about very substantial amounts and then it actually leads to a division. Then I really wonder why the cabinet suddenly wants to take such a big step forward as far as we are concerned, not forward, but perhaps in the light of the cabinet. Aren't you afraid that this will put a large part of the support that is available for vaccination at risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u232	No, I don't think so. Besides, it's good. We do not have this debate for nothing either, namely to work it out well with each other, to discuss it well with each other. Is this a covert vaccination obligation or an indirect vaccination obligation? No, it's not. Then there's the cabinet's intention. It's not new from the cabinet at all. We have just since starting testing for access said that a lot of people aren't going to use it at all, or because they're just going to be vaccinated and can get a QR code in that way or because they're never going to go to an opportunity where they're sitting in large groups together. Not everyone goes to The Friends of Amstel LIVE. Because you don't have to. It's a lot of fun to do, by the way. Not everyone goes to Feyenoord. That's a lot of fun to do, too. So it doesn't have to, but it's really nice to do. So we do grant it to everyone, and that's why we want to make it possible. If you weren't working with tickets at all, the downside of that would be some of them suggesting that you still have to be much more careful to get together with large groups, so you actually have to wait a lot longer. So we don't want that. That could be an alternative: don't work with tickets at all. We don't want that. We do want to work with it, so that we can get together with those big groups without having to be very afraid that all of that ends in huge spreading events. So working with tickets we want to do and then we want you not only to come in through vaccination, but also to have an alternative. One of the alternatives is having an infection and another alternative is having a negative test statement. There is only a limit to this, to what extent you can ask the rest of society: will you please continue to pay for it? Especially now that everyone has had the chance to be vaccinated, that is all the more true. That's what we've been finding since the beginning. We've always been transparent about that. The Chamber has amended that and before we resume this legislative process, we wanted to discuss it honestly with the Chamber: we think it is reasonable, what do you think? Well, that's the outcome of this debate. And with the outcome of that debate, we are moving forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u233	Thank you. Your last question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u234	Yes, I do. The minister calls The Friends of Amstel LIVE, but there was also just talk about restaurants. When I hear an amount of €7.50, or actually any amount, I think: that means quite a bit. I don't think you can beat that up like that. I am also sorry that this is happening in this debate. It gets so flattened because people say: yes, well, everyone has had the chance to get a vaccine like that, so you shouldn't be squeaking but paying. I think that is simply not the right way to conduct this debate. And it's not the right way to convince all those people who may still be in doubt. And I think it is going to lead, de facto, to a division that we fundamentally reject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u235	I think that word "twin" is really too big, you know. I really do. A division would arise when an improper barrier would be created to participate in society at all if you were not vaccinated. I think we all don't want to, and we don't. We say: isn't it reasonable that you ask of the people who just want to have a beautiful evening and who are probably going to pay to have that beautiful evening anyway, to pay for what that whole testing costs for access together? Moreover, society will always continue to pay the bulk of these costs. After all, if you really convert the costs into one cost per test, then of course you are many times higher than that €7.50. We all take that for granted because you also don't want to set false thresholds. All you do is ask people to pay for it from any point in time. Well, that makes sense. That's not a dichotomy. "Twinning" is really too big a word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u236	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP wants to ask a question. Mrs Kuik will then be given the floor by the PvdA and then by Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u237	There's a question that's still on my mind. We are having a very fundamental discussion right now, but are we talking about a stage in which we are now? The letter from the cabinet also says: well, we hope, in the light of developments in the virological situation, that no measures will be needed at all in November. We said in the test law at the time: it would be nice if it were to be completely over by the summer. Why stir up this whole discussion now? This suggests that this is actually an attractive way of continuing access tests in order to be sure. Will the Minister respond to that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u238	That is a very valid point. By the way, I wish I could promise that we would be done with 1 November. I believe that when we were discussing the test law and the access test, we had never heard of the delta variant. That's an "event" that became us later. That also means that you have to change the game time and time again when you see that the target poles are moved by the virus. At the same time, of course, you do not want to be tied to those tickets for years. Because, of course, these tickets also apply: it is a measure which, in a given situation, can simply be seen as a disproportionate measure. This means that the legitimacy to work with these tickets must be given in legislation. That legislation should also be renewed periodically. And that's what the room is about. The cabinet will therefore have to convince the Chamber of the need to use certain instruments over and over again. Let us be clear: if we can meet in very large groups without working with these tickets, we will of course do so. That is by far preferable, given the extent to which it restricts people and the extent to which it also costs society money. So as soon as we can get rid of it, we have to get rid of it. The point is that now the question is not so much whether we can get rid of it or not. The question now is above all: could we otherwise meet in large groups? In this context, the cabinet has found that we should actually take out the catalyzing events, given that these 1.8 million non-immunised people should not be infected in too short a time. Or at least we have to mitigate the risk of those events. We have therefore thought: that means that you will probably be attached to those tickets a little longer. Is this still the case after 1 November? I don't know. It could be. Of course you hope not. Let's hope we don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u239	I assumed the letter from the cabinet itself. It says: we hope that it will not be necessary in November, and given the current situation, this can actually be expected. In my view, this does not mean that if these measures expire, we will say to everyone: go ahead. I can also very well imagine that we say to people, even if the government measures no longer apply: you still have tests at the supermarket to buy; it may be wise to use these things occasionally. It's not all or nothing. Well, that's what it looks like now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u240	I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u241	Then I'm still wondering the following. In the letter itself, the cabinet also says: we hope that it will not be necessary anymore. In that light, I wonder whether it is very proportional, just to use that term, to put the whole test law back into question and what it contained with an amendment from the Chamber, and to stir up this discussion again. This lets people make a difference for the first time: you have been vaccinated, so you come in for free; you have not been vaccinated, so you have to pay. I thought Mrs Marijnissen was right to say that. That's what we're really gonna do. However argueable, that's actually the effect. Then I say: it seems undesirable to me to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u242	From a cabinet perspective, that is not a new step, because we have actually said from the outset that we consider the principle of profit to be really applicable to the use of tickets. But let me react differently. I very much agree with Mr Van der Staaij that you will have to make that weighting over and over again. As soon as it is no longer necessary, we also need to get rid of working with tickets. You only have to do it when you have to. Suppose you really had certainty that you could get rid of it in November; then perhaps the discussion was a different one. I'm just not sure. The letter and also the press conference are not for nothing surrounded by all kinds of blows. We have learned a little too often that the virus did still resist the goalposts and that the game had to be modified to fight the virus. We have seen this so often that you hear me a little bit more carefully about data over time, because the virus just doesn't care so much. That's kind of the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u243	Mrs Kuik van de PvdA and then Mrs Van der Plas van BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u244	I wasn't really going to get involved in this debate, but this is getting a bit the portee and the aftertaste of this debate and therefore relevant. It's true what Minister De Jonge says. The cabinet has constantly said, even at the start of testing for access: we are assuming the principle of profit. It is correct that the Chamber then said: we do not want to. But I do not understand that this timing is now being chosen to speculate and also, fed by D66 and VVD, among others, that may already be paying for tests for access, because we are entering an exciting phase. The schools open, the r arrives in the month, the reproduction figures are still up and not everything has been used to get the vaccination rate to maximum altitude. So why start this discussion now and not at a later stage, when we still have so many uncertainties? Isn't that just an argument to say: for the next three months we'll keep it as it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u245	No, all these uncertainties are the reason not to think too quickly that we can get rid of tickets and still be together with large groups. That's the relationship. Now that we are using these tickets and now that we are entering the stage in which everyone has at least had the space and opportunity to be vaccinated, you can really re-enter the discussion about the principle of profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u246	The Minister is avoiding my question. He's doing a detour and he's not answering my question. It is precisely these uncertainties that give legitimacy to say: for the next three months, let's leave it as it is, and then you can discuss again whether or not you are in favour of the principle of profit. Two: I voted against the law on testing for access. I did that for various reasons, but I also said: I am not in favour of applying it to all the restaurants. I am not at all in favour of us being vaccinated or having to show an entry test here at the Square, for the people who know The Hague a little less well, because that was not the case before. I may not be in favour of suddenly working with access tests in all the cinemas. So there are two things that are different now, or which give us an ID to postpone the discussion for a while. It is also because the cabinet is now giving further details of the entry test, by applying it to more events than we started three months ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u247	Well, I don't think so, because those designated sectors do not in themselves become other sectors. Suppose you want to step off the 1.5 meters at some point, because that's what it's linked to, then the OMT says: don't do that in one go, at this stage, but do that step-by-step. That's why education first. On the 20th, we do not want to be in the situation until other parts of society say goodbye to that one-and-a-half metres. But I would like to add that we find the coming together of large groups given all the uncertainties of today still risky. You'd want to mitigate that risk. What's a way to do that? You could do that by not allowing larger groups at all than an x-number. You could also say that you're going to work with larger groups with those tickets. Why is that a choice that is entirely in line with the law that has been passed? That's because it actually says that working with tickets must always be a proportionate choice. The question of proportionality also takes into account whether this is less significant than the alternative. The alternative would be to truncate the groups at a maximum size. That's actually more radical than asking for a ticket. For this reason, we say that this is really a proportional intervention, just when you release the proportionality test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u248	I conclude that the cabinet chooses to put the principle of profit back on the table at an uncertain stage. I wouldn't choose that. I see that tests are being carried out for access to more sectors and opportunities, including, for example, a hotel-restaurant in Valkenburg or the Luden terrace, where this is not the case at the moment. These are two reasons why I say: do not do that for the next few months, and if you want to do that, then the discussion will start at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u249	Okay, fair enough. There's a difference of opinion. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u250	I give the floor to Mrs van der Plas van BBB, Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union and Mrs De Vries of the VVD. But first of all, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u251	Are we going to call it an indirect duty or a direct duty? No, we just call it vaccination compulsion or vaccination urge. I am in favour of just saying it with the words that are before and not being very vague about it, so that it all seems a little less bad. I have a motion from Mr Van Haga which was adopted in May. It states that there can only be voluntary vaccination, i.e. no direct or indirect vaccination obligation. It is excluded, as well as coercive or urge measures. That motion was just passed. Then there will be an amendment, not by Mrs Bikker, which I can imagine very well, but by all accounts Mr Paternotte as co-subsidiator, which I find very bizarre. The first sentence is: "The authors believe that this legislative proposal does not lead to a division in society. This risk exists when parts of public life are only accessible to people who can afford a quick test." We hear a completely different story here today. It's just put down very differently. I would like to ask the outgoing minister to let this subject go completely and simply to comply with that amendment or that law and with the motion that has been adopted, because it seems to me to be quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u252	Returning to that motion, which you read from the Van Haga motion, I fully recognise from Mr Wilders' motion which had been tabled and adopted before, not entirely Chamberwide, but with a very broad majority in the Chamber. I would like to emphasise that I feel at home in this position, which is not a direct or indirect vaccination obligation. That is why we must also be so precise about those words and not call things a vaccination obligation that are not. Asking for your own contribution to a test is not a vaccination obligation. That test as an alternative to vaccination is proof that it is not a vaccination obligation, not directly or indirectly. If you made the cost of it, so that own contribution, too high, you're going to set a very high threshold. I would never get a bill like that past your room, so we would never file it. That amendment was adopted, of course, in the context of that moment, namely in the situation where not everyone could have been vaccinated, logically. The cabinet has always been in favour of the principle of profit. We never ran away from that either. Now that we are in a situation where everyone has been able to be vaccinated, we are again calling that possibility of the principle of profit. We say again: the cabinet would actually be in favour of that and would actually think it makes sense. That is, right through the front door, the position of the cabinet. We'll see what your room thinks about that tonight. If your Chamber says, "Well, no, thank you," then of course we're not going to prepare that bill. But if your room says "we actually get it," we're gonna prepare that bill. Then, during the examination of the legislative proposal, we will re-examine all possible questions. But let us be specific in what it is and what it is not; it is not a duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u253	I am sorry, but the Minister says that everyone has now been able to be vaccinated; perhaps we should discuss whether these access tests can be paid. Sure, everyone has been able to be vaccinated, but that's just people's freedom. They can choose to do so or not. "Yes, you could have been vaccinated": that should not be a discussion at all and that should not be mentioned here at all. That's just what people choose to do. One wants it and the other doesn't want it. One doesn't do it out of faith, the other is worried, afraid or doesn't know enough about it. We shouldn't be talking about that here. Then pay for tests, no matter what we discussed here this afternoon. The Minister or Mr Paternotte may find that you can easily go anywhere, but a large part of the Netherlands simply doesn't have that money; that's what it's about. If they have to pay €10 for a cinema ticket, which they may be able to do once in the six months, I'll just call it a $10 test ticket, then that's just a lot of money. Sure, if you can pay $160 for a Paul McCartney concert, I'll just say a little bit of "b" and if there's a tenner there, you're talking about something else. But that tenner will also apply to the cinemas. A tenner or €7.50, I'll just mention an amount. That's just a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u254	A very fair remark. Therefore, you must also want to be proportionate in the amount of your own payment. For example, you cannot calculate the whole cost, because then it becomes disproportionate. I understand that well, but otherwise I really don't go along with the story that this would be some kind of duty. Because it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u255	It remains strange that an amendment which was adopted three months ago is now being discussed again. My view on this is clear, but I would very much like to hear what the Minister sees as an ethical weighting and how he has experts prepare it for the legislative proposal he may be considering. Doesn't the Health Council really think this is an urge? I'd be very interested to hear about that. Secondly, what are the behavioural effects of this measure? Are these behavioral effects indeed that people will have the consideration that the Minister appreciates, namely that they will still be vaccinated? Or are these behavioral effects other, namely that one avoids testing and loses even more confidence in a government that makes one feel pressured? I would very much regret that. I stand alongside the Minister with regard to the importance of vaccination. I explain it everywhere: please, people, do so, because you protect yourself and you protect the people around you. But I would ask the Cabinet to ensure in the measures it proposes and in the plans it makes, that we remain united in this and that we are patient with those who make an assessment that the Minister may not like, but that additional information could take that step. In fact, I miss that completely in the government's deliberations so far, when I read the documents and also when I hear how the Minister wants to move towards the bill. That feels more like: three months ago the amendment was adopted and we did not get what we wanted; now we are going to try again. I'd regret that. I do not know this cabinet like that either, and that is not really my expectation of the legislative proposal. It's a compelling profession: look at the ethical aspects, let others advise on this and look at the behavioural effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u256	A few things. First, the element of the bill. We will have to prepare the bill if the Chamber gives the room for it. That's what your room really is about. Then we'll just have to prepare the bill. When preparing a legislative proposal, all possible advisers will always be covered; we will also have to call on them. We also need to be clear about why we think this is reasonable. Why have we always thought this was reasonable? Because the costs of testing for access are not insignificant. In this Chamber, too, a number of political groups have referred to this at regular intervals, especially those who are not very much in favour of a payment of their own. The point is, you're asking for that cost to be picked up on society-wide. You ask vaccinees and unvaccinated people, people who pay a lot and little tax, everyone, to contribute to the whole system of testing for access. For this reason, the cabinet has always been in favour of applying a principle of profit. We always thought that was reasonable. In that sense, therefore, it is not a new position at all. But there really is a new situation about the argument, because where the argument was three months ago "yes, but not everyone has already had the chance to get vaccinated, so you can't ask for your own contribution?" That argument is really different now. Then the Health Council. Do we know how the Health Council feels about that? No, but of course they are not a formal adviser to legislative proposals either. However, they have previously issued an opinion on whether it is legitimate to introduce a form of incentive for vaccination. Yes, that is indeed legitimized, under a series of conditions, says the Health Council. That is a very good report from February following the Segers motion. Do we know exactly how that's gonna work out in people's behavior? No, of course you never know that before. I have noted, however, that in France alone, the announcement of the entry into service of corona tickets was only possible with vaccination, even in the country of freedom, equality and fraternity, i.e. with vaccination certificates alone and a huge contribution to a test of vaccination, led to a huge upswing in the willingness to be vaccinated. That was only because of the announcement of that. I don't know if that's how it's gonna work in the Netherlands. That is almost impossible, because we cannot have such a huge upswing in the willingness to be vaccinated because that willingness is already so great, but I would not like to say that it can have a negative effect. I honestly don't think so. At least I have no reason to believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u257	I think it's too easy to drive anyway, for several reasons. First of all, let us go back to the treatment of that law, because that is what the Minister is going back to. I said, on behalf of my group, that I can imagine testing for access precisely to have an alternative to vaccination for people to continue to participate in society. That is precisely why I think it is important to look at that amount. Preferably for free, because I don't want any division. That's one. The second is that the Minister is now taking France, but the vaccination rate was sadly low. In the Netherlands, on the contrary, we rely on the common sense of citizens to weigh up and provide information each time. We see that most people are just going to get a vaccine, and we are so proud of it. And why should we take that last step, that people can make that trade-off... I agree with the minister: do you intend, consider it, then register immediately and don't think about it for another two weeks, because you're taking a risk. Why waste that? We're not France. We are the Netherlands, where we cherish freedom and where we rely so much on people to use their common sense. The Minister says that it is precisely in this way that we can increase the willingness to be vaccinated. I think that is an argument that I would very much like the Health Council to look into.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u258	In response to this, I would like to say the following. Many countries around us have already come to the conclusion that access testing should be based on a principle of benefit. I do not mention it because I think that the Netherlands is necessarily similar to France, but only to underline that that view is not so eccentric. Maybe it would be a good idea. Germany, for example, is doing it. France did it, too. You say: could it not be a reason for a lot of people? To be even more disgruntled about the whole vaccination policy? I have no reason to think that. In that light, I called France. That is where the announcement alone has led to a huge increase in vaccination readiness. Is that the main reason for the Netherlands to do the same? No, the main reason is the principle of profit. That's what we've always said. However, in answer to the question of what it does with the vaccination readiness, I received that question on Friday from a journalist, of course: it might be an incentive for people to be vaccinated. I think it's fair to add that. In short, your room is in charge. Let's just put it this way. Because that's just the way it is. If you say "we're not gonna do that," we're not gonna do that. It's as simple as that. You deal with legislation, you are a co-legislator, so there will be no law if you vote against it by majority. We have seen reason to want to have this discussion again, given that we have now been vaccinated in such a large number and everyone has had the opportunity to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u259	Then there is another element, because we have always stressed when testing for access that it should make more things possible or that it should make things possible sooner. Now there are also a number of organisations, companies and entrepreneurs who say: yes, but I could live fine with the current setting, so I don't need tests for access; with the existing rules I can do more than I can test for access. I got an example from a movie theater. He said just give me that choice. At the time, the Minister indicated that there was still a choice. Is that still true?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u260	No, we can't, because now it's an alternative to handling the 1.5 meters. So you have the one-and-a-half meter rule, and as an exception to that, you can work with testing for access. In that case, you can release the one-and-a-half-meter rule. And then it's actually part of letting go of that 1.5 meter at all. So you can't re-introduce that 1.5 meters in a particular room. Well, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u261	But then I start to have a bit of a problem with it, because that was indeed indicated at the time when the law was being dealt with. It would now be an additional restriction, whereas it should make it possible to relax. It should be more space, it should be possible sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u262	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u263	Then I think it's weird. At the time, the question was also asked to the Minister: is there any possibility that an entrepreneur will make that other choice? According to the Minister, that would be possible at that time. But now the Minister says it can't be done. Then the entrepreneur adheres to the 1.5 meters and to all the rules that he must comply with now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u264	Then we should postpone the moment when we let go of those five feet. Then you can. Then access testing is an alternative to handling the one-and-a-half meter rule. In this case, the point is that as a whole, as a society, you are going to let go of the 1.5 meters, but only for meeting in larger groups you need to work with tickets in order to mitigate the risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u265	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u266	Then there are some other questions. Mr Paternotte would very much like this to be the case on 1 October. We are going to prepare the bill, depending on the discussion tonight. It's always gonna take a while. You didn't introduce overnight. So I honestly think that any time in October could be the fastest timeline. Then I guess I've already answered a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u267	At least there is another question from Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u268	Mr. Chairman. During my first term, I was represented by Mr Van der Staaij, for which I thank him. But in the meantime, I'm back. I felt we were moving on to another block, so I thought I'd ask a quick question. The Minister just said that there should be no undue pressure. I think we can therefore recognise that there is pressure. He also says this isn't new. Maybe not around these vaccinations, but it is when you look at other vaccinations. Of course, this is not the first vaccination programme we have. Such pressure has never existed around, for example, the national vaccination programme with child vaccinations. Although, personally, I'd rather not go through polio. That is something that I would like everyone to be committed to. So my question is, in fact, where does that difference in the attitude of the government come from? Aren't we looking at a sliding scale here, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u269	No. I would also like to say that it is quite right for you to ask these questions. I'd be happy to answer that, too. It is not entirely true, however, that there has never been an obligation. The party of those who replaced you in the first term has ever been co-founded because of the opposition to the current vaccination obligation, which I believe was the smallpox vaccination that was required at that time. That vaccination was mandatory until 1920-1930. So it's not like there's never been a vaccination obligation. In any case, it has been the government's view for a very long time that the voluntary nature of vaccination and the conviction from the point of view of its content provide the best results. A long time ago there was a lot of discussion about a possible mandatory vaccination in childcare, but that certainly never led to that obligation being fulfilled, always from the point of view that vaccination is always a free choice in the end. I think it's very important to want to hold on to that. The point here is not to introduce a vaccination obligation, nor is it an indirect vaccination obligation. It can only be an incentive, we have said, but we have to call things the way they are. The mere fact that instead of vaccination you can simply go in with a test or with a proof of recovery, already proves that there is no vaccination obligation at all in the Netherlands. We're not going to. We are not going to do that at all, because Mr Wilders' motion is entirely in line with the cabinet's line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u270	But once again the term 'vaccination obligation' is used. I deliberately chose not to use it. I'm talking about the term "busy." So the choice is now being made to exert pressure, albeit positive pressure according to the Minister and not negative pressure. It could be. But I would still like to point out that this is a break with the policy on child vaccinations. In my view, as a doctor, they are at least as important, also in order to keep the vaccination rate high. In that sense, I should like to note that there is a break in policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u271	I'm not gonna share that. But perhaps I can use this as a transition to the many discussions we are about to have. Tonight it is very much about testing for access, its own contribution and to what extent you could see that as a direct or indirect vaccination obligation. My prediction is that we are going to have this type of debate with each other very much. Then maybe it's not about testing for access, but we're having a discussion on another front. We're in transition now. We find ourselves in a situation where a very large part of society has been vaccinated and a small part has not. At the same time, you have a situation where 1.8 million unimmunised people are still at considerable risk of exposure. Many hospitalisations could emerge from this, which could put pressure on the aims of our approach, namely to protect vulnerable people and to protect them from overload. Which means you're gonna have to take measures for the time being. These measures increasingly raise the question of the extent to which people who have done everything they can to get out of this crisis, namely by being vaccinated, can impose restrictions, for the sake of that other group. That's a dilemma that's playing and that's not getting out with incandescent formulas. This dilemma will lead to new questions over and over again. Mr Paternotte mentioned a number of them. He asked, "Isn't patients in a hospital allowed to count on nurses being vaccinated at their bedside?" Good question. Everyone in the care will recognize that. At the same time, everyone is opposed to a vaccination obligation in healthcare, but how? How do you, as an employer, take care of the fact that you have a duty from the Wkkgz to provide a safe care environment and the duty under the Arbo legislation to create a safe environment for your employees, while not being able to interfere very much with the vaccination status of your employees, because that is not allowed? Those are dilemmas that are going to play. I can mention a lot of them, which we will be busy with in the coming period. That is why we have said that we want to have that conversation with a number of experts. I want, of course, as myself and with the cabinet, to be in agreement about this and to inform the Chamber of how we view it. I cannot see in advance whether what needs to be changed in legislation and regulation in order to deal with it in a good way. On the one hand, you don't want mandatory vaccination. We also do not want an indirect duty. That's Chamberwide's feeling. On the other hand, you want to make these dilemmas as manageable as possible, for example in a healthcare institution. People ask us that, so we'll have that conversation too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u272	The Minister refers a number of times to my adopted motion. It did say: no urge and no compulsion. Those terms come from us. I think the Minister is right when he says that asking for money for an entry test is not directly a vaccination requirement. But it's an urge. I can say that because I have been the author and the author of the motion, so my interpretation applies according to parliamentary practice. Why is it urge? I'll explain it to you. Mrs Marijnissen mentioned it just now when you mentioned the €7.50. You'll only be a Limburg family that will eat coffee with pie on weekends in a local catering establishment. That family lost €30 before it has one cup of coffee and a piece of pie inside. At the same time, you can see that the neighbor comes in with a corona receipt and he doesn't have to pay anything. It is not a duty, you are right, but that is what I meant as the author of the motion adopted, with urgency. No compulsion or duty, but there's an urge. And that's what you're trying to do, and that's exactly what you've admitted. You call it an incentive. Stimulant or urge: I don't know how much it's different from each other. Your intention is that people see it as a great incentive to be vaccinated. As a petitioner, I believe that this falls within the definition of urgency. €7.50 doesn't seem like much, but €30 is a lot of money. You will indeed get a split between the people who have to test and those who come in for free because they have a vaccination certificate. I would ask you, however, to reconsider the proposal once again and to refrain from doing so, bearing in mind the motion adopted, which speaks of no compulsion and no urge. I would therefore ask you to reconsider this proposal and not to do so, bearing in mind the motion that has been adopted, which talks about no compulsion and urge. As a petitioner, I think this is an urge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u273	I understand very well what Mr Wilders is saying. I myself do not like to use that word 'exercise', because it can be explained in more detail, namely in the way of the author and in my own way. I think my way goes, too. That's why I use the word "stimulant" myself. It is clear that this is the case. It's just a stimulant. The word 'excitation' is perhaps similar to 'pressure', the word used by Mrs Pouw-Verweij. Why don't I use that word? Because some people experience an intrusive conversation with a GGD employee that it is very wise to have you vaccinated, already as pressure. That is why I find that a more difficult word to use. The main reason is also not to build an incentive towards vaccination. The main reason is the principle of profit and a side effect is an incentive towards vaccination. By the way, I very much agree with you on this point. We should not be too quick to assume our wallet when it comes to what people can easily afford. That €7.50 is not a small amount, certainly not. You need to encourage people, especially in North Limburg, to consume as much pie as possible with coffee. That is a very good idea for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u274	Mr. Paternotte, I need you to press the button.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u275	Oh, yeah. It is very good that the Minister highlights the importance of the responsibility of healthcare providers to provide a safe healthcare environment and a safe working environment, and that it is up to us to give them tools to do so. I think these dilemmas are already emerging. In the group, a fellow group member mentioned someone who was undergoing chemotherapy and could not therefore be vaccinated. In the Volkskrant there was the story of people who get a donor organ and therefore receive medicines that suppress the immune system, so the vaccines do not work. Those people depend on who is around them and whether they have been vaccinated and take adequate safety measures. Many people in the care I spoke about it came up with hepatitis B and the fact that it is not mandatory, but that if you have not been vaccinated against it, you cannot do that work in a lot of the department. That makes sense. It is very good that the Minister wants to look into this with experts. I think it's gonna be a question soon. Are those legal possibilities, for example, when you look at hepatitis B, not already there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u276	Sure. It's similar to hepatitis B, but that's much less a discussion. It just happens. Indeed, an employer can ask someone who does not want to be vaccinated against hepatitis B to be tested. You can also say: then it might be better if you started working in another department. That conversation's been going on and it's been going on for years. Of course, the legal situation with regard to corona vaccination is no different. What matters is that employers are uncomfortable in having that conversation. In hospitals, it is a very different issue than in nursing homes. I believe that the vaccination rate in hospitals is generally much higher than average in nursing homes, although it is also high in most homes. They both work with very vulnerable people. But the point is that employers and employees have this conversation in such a way that everyone feels comfortable with it, that it does justice to the right not to share your medical status and thus your vaccination status with your employer. There is that right in the end. On the other hand, there is a duty for employers to provide a safe environment. This is a duty arising from the Arbo legislation and the Wkkgz, from the health legislation. We need to talk to each other about how to deal with these rights and duties in the workplace, first of all, of course, with hospitals and nursing homes themselves. Why do I like having that conversation with them? Because I want to see if they have enough handles to make this a good outcome, or if it also requires something from us. Because then we should not go around that complicated dilemma with a big bow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u277	A final question from Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u278	Let's talk about the concept of urge. The Health Council has said this: "There is an urge when one's decision space is restricted or affected in such a way that one actually has less freedom of choice." That is really the case in the example I gave: a family, €7.50 per person, €30 only to come in to get a cup of coffee or a piece of pie or to consume something else. Then if you don't have a thick wallet, with €30 access you just have fewer options. A lot of people don't have that money, they don't have that choice, and then they'll stay at home, and it's also a form of urge, or say, well, let's get vaccinated, because that's free and then I come in. It is therefore a good thing that some Members have talked about, including Mr Van der Staaij, to take a look at what is the meaning of the word 'need'. It may not be your interpretation, but it is mine, as the author of that adopted motion. So the Health Council also says that this is a form of urge that may not be justified, because it limits freedom of choice. So please think again about it and do not take all the decision, not only to come up with these access tests, but also to ask people for money for them. It limits their freedom of choice. It's a form of urge we shouldn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u279	The Health Council does not draw that final conclusion, by the way. In any case, the Health Council does not draw that conclusion apart from the interpretation of the word "excitation." That is, of course, also a political conclusion in the end. That political conclusion belongs in the Chamber. The cabinet has already made that assessment in a sense, because we also said in spring that we really think the principle of profit is acceptable. Especially when you get into the situation that everyone has had the chance to be vaccinated, it is not at all unreasonable to ask for something of their own contribution for testing as an alternative to being vaccinated. The extent to which you find this acceptable is also your own political weighting. So we will all come to a political weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u280	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to ask a question. I understand that, Minister, but you're not going to answer my question. I was talking about someone who has a minimum income, someone who has an AOW pension, someone who is single with a pension. There are a lot of people for whom €7.50, or with a family €30, is just a lot of money. You and I can't imagine that with our salary, but a lot of people in the Netherlands do. Do you agree to that argument? If you have to pay €30 to enter a catering establishment with a family alone, you have less freedom of choice. Whether that is the conclusion of the Health Council or mine, do you agree that it is a restriction of choice for a family with a minimum income if it has to pay €30 to enter? We can at least agree on that, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u281	It is certainly a restriction on freedom of choice. I think so. But the question is whether it is a justified restriction on freedom of choice and to what extent it is a restriction on freedom of choice. I'm gonna take a look at that pie situation, take the four of us to dinner. So it's about a catering shop where you're apparently eating pie with 75 men. That's a lot, you know, for a food store where you can eat pie. Probably there is also a catering shop that is a bit smaller, where no 75 men come and that whole obligation of admission tickets does not apply at all. We chose the 75 for this very reason. It's about a bigger case. It's about being together with larger groups. We must continue to reason from the content. It's about dampening the risks, and for the sake of simplicity we also left out the difference between replaced and unplaced. We're assuming a general group size of 75. Of course, such a choice is always arbitrary. I very much agree that we should not rely on our own salaries if we want to check whether €7.50 is large or not. I very much agree with you. But you can say that the freedom of choice is probably not that limited. There are always alternative options. It seems reasonable to assume that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u282	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister to move on to his next block, the care capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u283	Well, I guess I still have some questions to ask. I'll go over what we've already had.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u284	There was also a question from Mr Kuzu about the employer. You'd come back to that. That question came to you through the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u285	Yeah, I'm very clear on that. That was about the dance school. To what extent can an employer require tickets for his employees? That was the issue. That depends. Public space: not. Public accessible space: not unless. That's where it really has to be. I'm just going to use the pie shop in Venlo as an example. It can only be done there because it is appropriate and only when it is about a situation where you are with a larger group than 75, because it is a public accessible space. You don't have to be a member of the pie business to go in there. But we did not limit an employer in the law corona admissions to ask that question or not. The question that also came up in that reaction is: can you demand a vaccination certificate? We have just said that a vaccination certificate should not be required, not in the employer-employee relationship. Can you work in your tent with corona tickets, asking your guests to show you evidence? Yes, we can, but not a vaccination certificate as such, because there is no reasonable alternative in the form of a negative test certificate or proof of a corona infection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u286	Thanks for the answer on testing. I referred to the Prime Minister's remark that he sees no need for vaccination. But then I quote him: 'If certain companies choose to do so, it may be that the judge has to judge'. You just said in your reply that the Wkkgz and the Arbowet may be reasons to go with care staff to see if you can do so. Then I get a little creepy, because that is in stark contrast to the Prime Minister's statement 'we see no need for vaccination'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u287	No, but that's the way it really is. In itself, you have to have that conversation at the workplace. To what extent does vaccination offer a safe working environment? To what extent should additional masks be made available, for example? To what extent can someone do their job better in another department, because you have to want to prevent corona infection when working with vulnerable people? That's the conversation you need to have at the workplace. That is really something other than an obligation to impose vaccination on your employees, on the penalty of dismissal or whatever. I think it has been said in that light: if that were to be the case, it will of course come before the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u288	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u289	That is what has been repeatedly repeated in the past year or year and a half by this Minister, but also by the Prime Minister: it is a choice of its own; it is an individual responsibility; we are not going to force people directly or indirectly; we are not going to apply coercion or urge; we are not going to exert pressure. But then when you say: it's your responsibility to your colleagues and the employer can choose it and the judge has to judge it, you end up on a completely different scale. That's a sliding scale where you say: we start with the care staff and then another employer, grab him a big company, that's also gonna demand from his employees. Then before you know it, we have a situation in which every employer in the country can make it mandatory when the judge makes a positive ruling. Is it therefore not wiser, is my question, just to ensure it legally, just as we did in the debate on the corona app? There we have also said very clearly and laid down in the law: an employer, an organisation, cannot force an employee to download such a corona app.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u290	No, I don't think so, and I'll explain why as well, but I'll start with another question. If that were the case, we would actually say to employers: we are going to make it impossible for you to have that conversation with your employees. This means that they are not able to meet the demand of the Wkkgz, namely: can your patients please assume that they will not get sicker with a corona infection than they already entered the hospital? In short, it's really not that easy and it's really not that black and white. You've just got some conflicting duties. Of course, as an employer, you want to do justice to every individual right of your employees. That's one. But two is that you have an obligation to provide a safe working environment, which also extends to the other colleagues. And three is that you also have an obligation under the Wkkgz. Where you are normally not allowed as an employer to ask about the medical status of someone... You should not ask if someone has recently been seriously ill, you should also not ask if someone has been pregnant, for example. The medical status is not an area in which you as an employer can ask the employees completely freely what the situation is. "Are you by any chance pregnant or something?" You can't ask. But being pregnant, of course, isn't contagious either. Non-vaccine is therefore a substantially different risk for colleagues, but certainly also for patients, for whom you also have a responsibility to bear. So it's not that black and white. That is why I say: give us the opportunity to discuss this with experts about what is going on, but certainly also with employers and employees concerned about how you should deal with it and whether they can deal with the current legislation and regulations in order to resolve this conflict of duties properly in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u291	A final question from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u292	That's about having the conversation. I don't want to make that impossible. But it's about the way you're having that conversation. Suppose an employer says "we oblige you to do it, or else you will be fired" or "you may not come to the workplace." I'm just saying, that's the most extreme and the most ultimate example. Then it ensures that employees can experience that pressure is being exerted on them. My real question, which has not yet been answered, is about these conflicting obligations. We did it with the corona app. With the law on the corona app, we have agreed with each other that employers cannot oblige employees to download that app. Isn't that what we could do here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u293	Yeah, but that's what I'm saying, it's not all that black and white. So, as a cabinet, give us the opportunity to engage in this discussion with employers and employees, with the current laws and regulations in their laps. Does this offer sufficient opportunity to resolve this conflict of duties in the workplace in an appropriate way? We will return to that as a cabinet, and then let us see what that requires in the context of what we have collected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u294	The Minister continues his speech. I would like to ask the Minister to answer the following questions a little more compactly, because we would also like to leave the Minister of Education to the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u295	Absolutely. He's gotta get the full floor. I note that I have indeed answered the questions in the course of the interruptions, a number of which I may have answered several times. Then the care and the care staff. A number of questions have been asked about this, not even for the very first time. If the care capacity appears to be a problem, can we simply expand that care capacity further? Mr Wilders asked that question and also Mrs Simons. A few things about that. One. We did. In the summer of last year, we already implemented a capacity plan with the hospitals, a scheme for the ic's with 550 extra ic-beds on top of the already existing capacity of 1,150. That is of course peak load, so what matters is a structural addition of the number of beds that is also manned of 200, so 200 ic-beds extra, 400 clinical beds extra. When you get up there, that has an impact on the regular care, because those beds are there but the staff of course not. That's gotta come from the O.R.s a lot. If you take staff off the O.R.s, this means you have to postpone operations. This leads to the postponement of regular care. But in principle, of course, there has been a restructuring plan. This has also been discussed in detail with the sector. It is also indicated by the sector as about the maximum achievable, because otherwise you will have to scale down parts of the regular care. This involves EUR 500 million, from 2020 to 2022. Why can't you just scale that up? Of course, that has everything to do with the human capacity that this requires. So either you remove staff from other departments, or you have to train a lot of staff extra, where an additional education to ic nurse alone takes 18 months. In short, there's a lot of work going on to expand the number of beds and train the number of new people, but that's not something you do overnight. Two. Sometimes it is said too easily: if we had a lot more beds, you would have had to impose much less restrictive measures. That is, of course, only partly true. The tip of the iceberg always ends up on those hospital beds. So if you would accept that there were a lot more beds taxed by covid patients, you'd also accept that huge pile of patients underneath, who might not need an ic-bed or hospital bed, but can get pretty sick from covid. So you accept a very high disease burden, of which you also don't know exactly how high it is, because we don't really know the effects of lung covid. And there's a limit to what you can do at that point. So the care capacity is not so makeable. Two is: it is also the question whether, if you could, you should then want to invest hundreds of extra beds, because you know that many more sick are involved. Mr Kuzu is right to ask him, do I think he is going to go to the flu wave: have we taken sufficient account of that? Well, that is of course an additional reason to say, for the OMT in any case: beware of letting go in one go of that 1.5 meter, because we also have the possibility to freeze the number of new corona patients that comes out of it and by the way we also have the catch-up care to realize. In short, we've got work to do and we can't just have that. In fact, it was also a point made by Mr Van der Staaij. In addition, he appointed the general practitioners and home care services in particular. Of course, the same story also applies to this: the pressure that Corona has been putting on care for a year and a half, which is at the expense of all the time and attention that the caregivers hadn't had left anyway, and thus at the expense of regular care, is of course immense. For this reason, too, we must also keep the need for covid care somewhat limited. We can't afford to say, especially with an OMT advice like we've had, we can't afford to say: well, we'll see what number of hospital beds are coming out of this and we'll take that for granted, we'll accept that. It can't be. Wanting to reduce the burden of care by covid is really very important to do. Mrs Gündoğan says: regular care is, of course, in tribulation anyway. Yeah, that's the point I just made myself. The absenteeism's pretty good, too. Of course, we have agreed with the V&VN and with the FMS that they are going to make a recovery plan and that is what they are doing. We expect this at the end of August, and this is particularly true of this issue, so it is not capacity. Of course it is not endlessly stretchable, because care has to be caught up again. So there's a plan for catching up. In addition, there is also the concern that just needs to catch a little breath and recover from what has happened to her in the past one and a half years. So that's what this plan is about, that we asked V&VN and the FMS to make. Mrs Marijnissen is entering into a discussion which is not entirely the first to be discussed, and I do not think that this is the last time. In the debate on 3 June, the Minister for Medical Care said that he would look with various stakeholders at how the ESC opinion on this issue could be implemented by examining with those parties how the opinion could be incorporated into concrete options for a new cabinet. She then indicated that she would inform your Chamber about this after the summer, and it is still planned to do so in September. Then there are a number of other questions. Mrs De Vries asks: what about the purchase of antivirals at European level? She says: it seems that the Netherlands will be the last in it again. Well, of course that's not very complimentary and fortunately it's not true. The Netherlands is well connected here. There are several European procurement routes and we are all participating. In the meantime, three framework agreements have been concluded with which the Netherlands is also affiliated. We also bought a therapy from Roche. This medicine is already available through RIVM and doctors also know how to find it. It's already being deployed. If there are more promising therapies, we will not hesitate to buy them for the Netherlands as well. We just have money for that. Mr Van der Molen, like Mrs Bikker and Mrs Simons, says that there are, of course, people whose vaccines are not working or are not working enough. That's right. Sometimes it's because they can't have a vaccine. Sometimes they may have a vaccine, but we know that that vaccine simply will not lead to the same resistance, to similar immunity. We've asked for an opinion from the OMT on how to deal with it. This is partly involved in the opinion on the booster shot, which might be helpful. By the way, we already decided at the end of July to at least help them with free self-tests. They can pick them up so they can help the environment that comes to them with self-tests. Protective equipment is also provided to intensive carers and pgb carers. The OMT therefore comes up with a separate opinion on this point. Where the relationship is established with access tests: if we are to make our own contribution, we will of course have to find a separate solution to this. This is not so much the case for the people in whom the vaccine does not work properly, because they can take the vaccine and therefore also get a QR code. So that's not the point, but of course it's the people who can't have a vaccine. Well, that might not be a group that would like to go into large groups, because that is already a big risk at all. All infectious diseases are a major risk to this group. That is also a conversation they have with their specialists, but we will have to make an exception or find a solution. The Party for Animals asks if the Cabinet intends to extend the Corona Act after 1 September. And when does that come to the room? The Cabinet considers that the Temporary Law measures covid-19 should be extended from 1 September. Your room has been informed of this before the summer. The content of the extension decision was also discussed. So that debate has actually already been held. There are more infections on air travel than initially thought. How does the cabinet explain the difference between them and what steps will the cabinet take to limit contagion on board aircraft? On 10 August, Mr Van Esch and Mr Van Raan asked written questions on this subject. In replying to this question, we will discuss in detail the steps we are taking. Perhaps it would be a good idea to answer the question of detail and precision in writing. Then there was a very complicated question about a multiplex assay that could be tested simultaneously for influenza A and B, and for COVID-19, as in the US. With a multiplex assay, not only the coronavirus is tested, but at the same time the presence of other viruses, for example flu viruses. This can be useful in a clinical setting if a doctor wants to determine which virus causes the symptoms. They're already being deployed in that setting. Outside the clinic, the added value compared to the existing tests is actually not there. Were the US Secretary of State and the Prime Minister aware of the report on the loss of 520,000 years of life due to the lockdown? This is a question from Mr Van Haga. No, that report wasn't known to us. In general, the move to a lockdown is, of course, a far-reaching decision. We have always been advised, not only by the OMT, but also by the planning agencies. We did that at all, about all the measures. This has been the subject of a debate with your Chamber a long time ago. We have, of course, come to this decision in the light of the cabinet targets we have, namely protecting vulnerable people, preventing the overload of care and keeping an eye on, and keeping an eye on the spread of the virus. And at some point we added a fourth cabinet goal, namely to reduce the damage to the economy and to society. We have always made our decisions in the light of these four cabinet objectives. Mr Van Haga has also put a set of written questions to me and to the Prime Minister. However, I do not know this report, but it has apparently been sent to the Minister of Economic Affairs. We will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs to provide you with a detailed reply to this set. Those were the questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u296	Thank you. There are a number of follow-up questions. I shall first give the floor to Mrs van der Plas from BBB. Then there is another question not answered by Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt and finally to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. But first, Mrs Van der Plas has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u297	In my contribution, I had referred to those health care workers who might as well be able to work with complaints. Perhaps I had not made the question very clear, but I would like to know what the Minister's position is on this matter. How does he feel about when a health care worker has complaints, he or she can just get to work? I had also referred to the written questions I asked at the beginning of August, requesting that they be answered before the press conference on 13 August. That didn't happen. I don't think I've had a delay either. I actually suggested that the Minister should answer those questions here. Part of that has happened, partly because of other questions that have been asked. However, some of these written questions remain open. I would actually like to see it answered. I have them right here in front of me and I can read them to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u298	First of all, the first question. The rule that applies to people in care is no different than to other people. For everyone is the rule: you stay at home in case of complaints. Imagine that this would lead to a continuity issue in the care sector, which would create very serious problems. One day it has been decided that in an exceptional situation you can have the conversation with your employer, who then says: "Well OK, we suspect that you do not have a corona. Of course, you can get that tested very quickly. Well, come on, then, with the use of mouth caps and all kinds of test requirements in the morning. Come on, or we'll have a much bigger problem in care." That was very much the debate at the time. At the time that was also a mouse hole that was still somewhere in the arrangements. But in my opinion, the general practice in care is really no different than elsewhere, namely: you stay at home with complaints. Just because you work with vulnerable people, it is of course extra good to be very careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u299	Perhaps it would be a good idea not to pass through Mrs van der Plas' questions which have not been answered, but to indicate when the written questions will be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u300	I'm gonna do that as soon as I can. I'm just gonna do it on the basis of my memory. I recall that you have asked a set of questions, quite a lot of questions too, and that those questions were all related to the extent to which it is permissible to apply, directly or indirectly or whatever, any form of vaccination which an employer may or may not apply. I think it was all that type of question. Anything I can say about that today, I think I said. I can only find: you have asked written questions, so you will also receive a reply in writing. Of course, we'll do that as soon as we can. This is without prejudice to the fact that I may not be able to answer all the questions precisely now, because we really want to talk to the healthcare sector about some of those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u301	They have been partially answered here. It was a whole set of questions, but there are a lot of questions of the type "if yes, can you explain that, and, if no, why not?" That seems a lot, but if something can't be done, I always like to know why it can't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u302	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u303	So it looks like a long time, but it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u304	Shall I just try to answer them next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u305	It is not just about vaccination certificates; it is also about fundamental rights. What is the position of the cabinet, or what is the position of the minister and the outgoing Prime Minister? How are things consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u306	Mrs. Van der Plas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u307	One more, and I'll be through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u308	Before you ask your written questions right now... It's a...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u309	I won't read them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u310	That's nice. The Minister has indicated that he will answer the questions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u311	Yeah, I'm gonna try very hard to do that next week. It could be that for a single question we really need some time to figure it out really well or to discuss it with experts, because I think they were also quite complex questions. But I'm gonna try to answer your question set in the course of next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u312	Is that all right with you, Mrs. Van der Plas? Otherwise, we are going to have a debate on written questions, and that is not your intention either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u313	I'm fine with that, but you don't have to talk to experts about one question. That is the question: do the minister and the outgoing Prime Minister take responsibility for the growing division in society? If so, what is that responsibility? If not, why not? I will give the Minister and the outgoing Prime Minister a moment to consider whether they would be willing to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u314	Actually, I just did. Mrs Marijnissen also mentioned that word. I have said: I think that is far too big a word; it really does not fit in with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u315	I believe that the Minister has explained this, but he will at least come back to that in his reply. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD, because a question of hers has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u316	The VVD sometimes comes from the left; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u317	Well, not really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u318	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u319	The Minister discussed in detail employers in the care sector who could ask for vaccination and whether this could be arranged. I've asked if that could be wider. I understand that the Minister is mainly focused on care, but there are also a lot of employers who are dealing with vulnerable people working in ordinary businesses. There they are with the same dilemma. I would like it to be considered whether it is also possible to achieve this, not to have to vaccinate, but to have a good discussion about it. I can also imagine, I have a look at the Minister of Education who sometimes does this in schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u320	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u321	Now they shouldn't even be asked about it and they do have a duty of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u322	Sure. And in schools there is something else, namely the relationship between students and teachers. Education is therefore in fact the subject of a very different conversation. But I'd like to work on that suggestion. The conflict of duties is the most complex in the care sector, one might say, because of course there is not only the obligation to provide a safe care environment, but also all the obligations arising from healthcare legislation, including the Wkkgz. As has already been said, there is something else in education, namely the relationship between teachers and students. That really leads to other dilemmas. Can you, as an employer, ask your vaccinated teacher to stand in front of an unvaccinated classroom? That is actually the conversation employers have in education. I think we should have this discussion with all these sectors, because all these dilemmas are coming back everywhere. We'll have to offer you a handshake for that. Can it be based on current legislation? Then that's fantastic. Let's hope that's possible. If it's any different, I'll report back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u323	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt and then to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u324	I have a question for the Minister. This morning, Mr Van Dissel said that virtually everything on which questions can be asked can be calculated in a model. My question is whether the Minister would like to ask Mr Van Dissel what hospital capacity we still have, with the contagion, to deal with the lack of care. Then we come up with an average or an expectation. You know I'm not in it like the Minister. Then perhaps we can relieve the burden of care and control the infections as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u325	This is exactly the question we have asked. I do not know whether Mr Van Dissel has said that we can get everything out of these models, because there are some limitations. We have to have a conversation about the care capacity. The question is in particular what care capacity you can have without having to postpone the regular care. I think that was also the background to Mrs Kuik's question. This is reflected in the autumn approach plan, as a follow-up to the current roadmap, which we will come up with in September. There are a lot of uncertainties that cannot be modeled. It is precisely because of the increasing accumulation of uncertainties that this is difficult to model, but we can see what number of beds you can occupy with covid patients without compromising the regular care, which also needs to be overtaken. We are having this conversation with the healthcare sector in the coming period, and certainly with RIVM, about this modeling, and we will come back to that in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u326	That's my follow-up question, too. I am genuinely concerned about the great absenteeism, which I have just addressed. I am also concerned because the capacity in the care may not be able to cope with an increase in infections. Then we're twice as far away from home, so to speak. You say September. I'll wait for that answer. I assume it'll come through you then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u327	Oh, yeah. I'm going to mention one more point to avoid disappointment. The most complicated question is to what extent the number of infections still has the power to express the number of hospitalisations. With anyone who says you don't have to look at infections at all, I don't agree, because it's definitely a harbinger of hospitalizations that could come. So, yeah, we have to look at it. And to anyone who says it's as important as it was, I say that's not true either, because it leads to hospitalizations to a much lesser extent. Over the past few weeks, we have been over 10,000 infections, while care has not been compromised by the number of hospitalizations. That's the new situation. Exactly how that works is a very difficult question, and that's what we're figuring out right now. In the UK, they go one step further by relaxing, and care capacity seems to be able to cope with that. Whether that's our foreland and whether you can compare that completely, I'm afraid to say, but we're looking at that very carefully. The OMT and especially the RIVM do the same. We have asked RIVM to advise us on the relationship between the number of hospital admissions you can handle and the level of infection involved. It may well be that the beginning of September is not quite clear enough. This is without prejudice to the fact that we can make a plan of action, while we do not yet know what this new relationship will look like given our vaccination rate. We'll do our best to map it as best we can. At least we put that question to the RIVM and I'll give you the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u328	One final question about this. I'm really curious about those contagion numbers. There are models and that is, of course, an estimate. It's not a guarantee, it's not a mathematical formula. Are they going to help make choices in the dashboard? I can't wait to see that. Once again, the Minister knows that I am not confident that this will not get us into trouble again, in the event of high levels of contamination. Mr Kuipers and Mr Gommers also spoke on this point. So how far do you go not to include that in the models, when considering whether or not to release measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u329	Look, the point is this. Towards the autumn there are all kinds of risk-limiting factors that are highly uncertain. Think of the degree of transmission inhibition after vaccination, the degree of influx of new virus from holidaymakers, the degree of decreasing immunity after vaccination or after an infection, the degree of homogeneity of the build-up of the vaccination rate. All these factors, and I'm not on half the list yet, lead to uncertainty. That makes you, if you really want to model it completely, have to do with enormous margins of uncertainty. This is without prejudice to the fact that in the autumn you will have to come up with an approach where you prefer to intervene as focused as possible, i.e. regionally, for example in areas with too low vaccination rates, or sectorally, in the sectors where you see catalysing events taking place that contribute much more to the spread of the virus, namely to such a high degree that it is actually irresponsible given the state of vaccinations at that time. Of course, you would prefer to adopt a sectoral or regional approach as targeted as possible. This is without prejudice to the fact that you will always have to let your light shine on what might be extra national when the shit hits the fan. Of course, it always has to be. You can't stop that. Totally an eccentric scenario would be if there really was a breakthrough infection that doesn't care so much about the vaccinations. Yeah, well, you better start from the top. Of course you don't want to. It is not at all likely that this will happen, but even that scenario you will have to think through. In short, we'll just come back with a plan of action. We will focus the indicators as best we can on the knowledge we have, but we will still have to live with some uncertainty in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u330	I had actually prepared myself for a debate on why, after reading that report, the Minister had chosen to set a lockdown. But to my surprise, that report, which was produced by EZK and concluded that if we set a lockdown, 520,000 years of life would never be destroyed, would never end up in the U.S. Department. If there's such a brilliant report, how the hell is it possible that it won't be on the table? You have a meeting with all the rulers, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u331	Well, a lot of documents have been produced lately. In the context of the Wob, we're all checking it out. That's about such incredible numbers that it's impossible, even in a lifetime, to take all those documents to you. It must have happened more often that a document has been made that has not reached me; thank goodness. The point is that we had that discussion a long time ago, I think we were still in the first wave in the Chamber. I remember Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers saying: but can you not just set up epidemiological glasses when you start taking action? Then it was said: besides an OMT you should also have an impact management team. That was the discourse then. Then we said: we have planning agencies for that; we actually have that knowledge in our house a long time ago, because we have planning agencies for that. Then the discussion has been: make that consideration transparent, make it clear to the Chamber in what way you make that assessment. That's what we were going to do in the Chamber letters at some point. The fact that lockdowns cause damage, socially or economically, is absolutely evident. The fact that you are nevertheless faced with the choice to announce a lockdown or a variant of a lockdown is also obvious. You can always make other considerations. We have always been advised by the OMT on the one hand and, on the other hand, by the planning agencies on the other, as to the social impact of these measures on the other. In the beginning there were a lot of people who suffered very badly from the virus, but as time passed, there were more and more people who were actually not so much affected by the virus as they were under the measures against that virus. You have always put that forward with a great deal of caution, and as much as we often disagree, there is also a core of truth in it. That's what we said ourselves. That is why we have said at some point: we should actually take a little more risk to alleviate the suffering of people under the measures against the virus. For example, for this reason, we have often opened up the schools earlier or given the space rather than the OMT thought justified. We did that on purpose. We have deliberately taken risks, precisely in view of the social impact. In that balance you always come to decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u332	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u333	That's not what I asked. We are sitting here with a result from a Wob request. Mr. Van der Zanden from Haarlem has made a Wob request, and then suddenly there appears to be an incredibly destructive report showing ahead of time, so before we set the lockdown, if we set the lockdown, 100,000 years of life would be won, but 620,000 years of life would be lost. Net balance: minus 520,000 life years. That is why I am surprised that the Minister of EZK did not jump up immediately and said: boys, we are here in the government meeting to talk nicely, but we must try to do the best for the Netherlands. But what did you do in the end? You have made a very bad decision, which has destroyed 520,000 years of life. That is the result of the decision. I don't really know what to do right now. Now I have to go to EZK and ask: why did you do that? Or should I put the question here as to why that did not come up on the table? But the conclusion is that it was known in advance, or could have been known in advance. I understand there are tons of paper, but this is so incredibly important that it should have been on the table. In that case, we would never have had that lockdown. This is not even about economic collateral damage, it is about medical collateral damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u334	Yeah, regardless of whether you can actually make that sum that way. But you simply asked the questions and those questions are answered. Let's start with that. You have put the questions in writing, so they will also be answered in writing. Quite apart from this report, of course, measures have the effect of causing social damage. This also means that the Court has consistently pointed out the proportionality of the weighting of all these measures, and rightly so. This means that we are talking all the time about whether the use of these tickets is actually still necessary. Not that so much social or economic damage comes out of it now, but nevertheless you will always have to be proportionate. That is also the reason for Mrs Bikker to say: every time the law is extended, you will have to reconsider whether you actually need an instrument, given the state of that moment, and therefore might still consider it proportionate. The discussion of proportionality, the discussion that measures that may be needed because of the economy always have social and economic side-effects, is therefore not a new discussion at all. That is a discussion that has always been held. The exact questions on this document will be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u335	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of the VWS Minister. I shall suspend the sitting for a moment so that we can stretch our legs for a moment. I'll take a look at Mrs. Marijnissen. Did you have another question for the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u336	No, Mr. Chairman. Before you suspend, there's one more thing. We are in a very important debate, but this was, of course, also a very important debate. I admit that my question is a little out of order in this debate. It's not addressed to the minister, it's addressed to the prime minister. The Chamber is still waiting for a large part of the afternoon and in the meantime a large part of the evening is waiting for a letter on how the cabinet will carry out the motion that was adopted at the beginning of the afternoon. I wonder if he can give some insight into it when the Chamber can expect that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u337	Mind if I keep it clean for a while? The Registry is in contact with the Ministry. So the question is off and we are kept very well informed of the moment the letter arrives. No indication can yet be given. As soon as the letter arrives, I will let you know immediately and then we can take the step. It's still unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u338	It is, of course, a situation in which every hour counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u339	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u340	For this reason, the Chamber also voted on it early. In the meantime, we are already quite a long way in the evening, so I do not think it is too much to ask that the cabinet should now clarify how this motion is handled. We want hob or calf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u341	I totally get that. We're on it. So as soon as that is known, we will let you know as soon as we do. I just got back in touch. Again, I assure you, we are on top of it. If news is available, it will come your way as soon as possible. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u342	I'm reopening the meeting. I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u343	Thank you, Mr President. I will, of course, begin with last Friday's beautiful decision to drop the 1.5 metres in MBO and higher education. I was extremely pleased with that decision, and I think with a lot of students, teachers and educational institutions, because they can finally go back to teaching as they like to. The cabinet considered this really a necessary decision, for two reasons. The first reason, of course, is that last year's education, although it has always been continued, was not education as we would like to see it. There was a breakdown, there was a delay, and in particular the formation of students really left to be desired. In addition, there was actually damage to the mental health of students, which is perhaps even more important. The OMT advised that the 1.5 metres per 19 September should expire, but we in the cabinet said that we really need to do so at the beginning of the school year, precisely for these two reasons. The health of the students is also at stake here. Some of you asked the right question: the OMT advised otherwise, so why did you see the possibility of dropping the 1.5 meters by 30 August? The OMT has also advised us: if you want to do this earlier, at the beginning of the school year, then it is wise to take some additional measures. Those measures can ensure that under these conditions you can safely release the 1.5 meters. This means that, in addition to the usual hygiene measures, we have taken a number of additional measures. First of all, wearing mouth-nose masks in the walkways. So students in higher education and in MBO are going to wear a mouth and nose mask when they're not sitting. In addition, the group size is limited to 75. If you keep the group somewhat limited, you also keep the risk of the infection spreading quickly. The group size of 75 did not fall out of the sky. Over the past year, we have worked with higher education and the MBO on scenarios for taking steps towards full opening, without the 1.5 metres. We discussed this with them on the basis of the question: if the group size should be reduced, what is a reasonable number? In that scenario the 75 was already mentioned. So that number didn't fall out of the sky. In addition, we continue the self-test policy. In the summer we organized that the distribution of self-tests for MBO and higher education can be continued. This means that all students can still order free enough self-tests to test themselves twice a week. We saw before the summer that the use of self-tests could really be even better, but I am very happy to see that, for example, 400,000 tests have been ordered for the introduction by educational institutions and organisations working on that introduction. You can serve a lot of freshmen with that. In addition, there is still a constant stream of students who order the self-tests. I hope that at the start of the academic year the use of the self-tests will really go up again. We have also agreed with the institutions and with the student organisations that they will promote the use of the self-tests. Self-testing is, of course, a very effective and easily accessible way of extracting infections from the population. We also stress the importance of hygiene measures and good ventilation. I'll be right back on that ventilation. The above means that we are not quite back in normal higher education. It also means that you will still have to deal with forms of online education, for example at the very large lectures. But among the students and teachers, there was a particular need for intensive small-scale education, where you have the discussion with each other, where you have practical education and where you can ask each other questions. That's exactly what's possible now. I have to say that from here on, I would like to wish all students and teachers an incredible pleasure in that conversation, starting August 30th. We have therefore taken additional measures. We have discussed this intensively with the institutions, but as you are used to in education, we will also incorporate it in the service documents, as we always do in MBO and higher education. I do that because I think that everyone in MBO and higher education should be clear about what the agreements are. It also means, for example, that you can have a good discussion about this in participation. I am also very keen that there should be good discussion within the institutions. Some of you had legitimate questions about the ventilation. Is it in order in MBO and higher education? In MBO and higher education, responsibilities for buildings are divided differently from primary and secondary education. It's good to mark that. There it is a shared responsibility of schools and municipalities. In MBO and higher education, the institutions themselves are truly responsible. They are also fully funded for this. Institutions have always had to comply with the guidelines and requirements of the Building Decision. An inventory that we have made over the past year therefore did not give rise to major doubts or serious concerns about ventilation in these educational sectors. Nevertheless, we have asked RIVM to draw up practical advice: how do you control ventilation and air quality and make it clear that it is in order? What kind of adjustments can you make? In my letter to the educational institutions last Friday, I explicitly asked them to look at these advices to see if they were in line with them. We will include this in the service document once more, so that teachers or students who are concerned about this can see very well what they have to meet and whether they have done so, so that they can question the leadership. Some of you asked about vulnerable teachers and students. Remains possible for them hybrid education, was the question. I understand that question very well. Some students with disabilities benefited greatly from online education. There is no single answer to that question. If I were to say that every student is entitled to hybrid education if he wants it or if he needs it because of a limitation, I would ask the teachers heavily over. What we expect from institutions is for vulnerable students and vulnerable teachers who are concerned about their health to see what they can do together. Of course, educational institutions see it as their core task to ensure that education goes ahead for all, including for vulnerable students. That requires a lot of customization, because one vulnerable student is not the other. I expect a good discussion to take place within the institutions. I also regularly, at this time almost weekly, consult with the student organizations, but also with the trade unions. On signals that that good conversation does not lead to good solutions, I will remain very alert. Of course, we all think this is important, but you also understand that I am asking about teachers and institutions the impossible if I were to say that we keep both forms in the air. You can also think of solutions such as additional protective measures, or extra distance within a local. There are many forms conceivable. I do expect institutions to have that good talk to come up with solutions. We will also include this in the service document. Mrs. Kuik had another question about exams and exams: are those 75 sufficient there and if you have a very large space we all know Ahoy and RAI, who have also been used for exams and exams, could you not have a little more than 75 students at 1.5 meters? We understand that the 75 for these big exams can sometimes be restrictive. We don't just want to keep doing exams online. That is why I am talking to the institutions and to colleagues about how we can solve this. We shall return to the Chamber on a further amendment to the ministerial regulation by 20 September. That seems to me in time for those first big exams and exams to take place. We're really looking for a solution. I understand your question very well and rightly so. Mrs Westerveld asked how to prevent cluster contamination. I have already said that we are taking a number of additional protective measures. We have also asked institutions: at the moment you notice that there are many absentees in groups or if you know that there is an infection, please contact the GGD so that it can be investigated as soon as possible. The self-tests also play an important role in this, of course. Obviously, the quarantine guidelines are being followed. You said, "What if a student has an infected roommate?" If that student is immune himself, he doesn't need to be quarantined, but he needs to be tested after five days. If he doesn't have immunity, he'll have to be quarantined. Those are the rules that apply more widely. Mrs Bikker had a question I didn't quite understand. She asked: do small institutions have the ability to set up test streets? There is no question of testing streets in education. Maybe she means the possibility of vaccination. Test streets are really not at issue in education at the moment, because they only use self-tests and they simply take them off themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u344	I think it's wonderful that a lot of prick buses are driving through the cities, although I think it's particularly important for minors. This is sometimes the case with the MBO up to 16 years old, where consent from the parents is needed. The prick buses must be careful with parking, so that the parents know what children are doing. Then, according to the law, they can make a consideration. I thought testing was good, precisely because universities and colleges would like to shape it in the form of self-tests and because I also hear from many teachers that they find it very pleasant when students do it in full. I understand that there are plenty of plans to shape that so that students can easily do that when they walk into a campus. I imagine it would be easier for a large university or college to realize than for a small-scale school environment. I'd like to give that to the Minister. There's gonna be a handout and I asked how fast it's gonna be. The Minister just used the word "service document" and I wonder if we are talking about the same thing or whether it is something else. It is precisely there that we should see the opportunities for small-scale education, so that it can be opened fairly smoothly without us discovering fireplaces, which we all hope will not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u345	In MBO and higher education, students can order the self-tests themselves. You're hoping they'll do that massively. Then they get it at their home address. It is best if students do self-test at home, because then they do it before they go for example in public or have other contacts in society. You can do that at home. In addition, there are institutions that also provide self-tests on top of that. For example, they are distributed massively during the introductions. You're absolutely right that it's a good thing that there's a place where you can take that test. Perhaps that is more difficult for a small institution, although the group for which it is to be organized is also smaller. We'll pick up the signal on the organisability. If there are issues there, we'll take the institution to see if we can solve it. We especially hope that even more students do that self-test twice a week, because that makes it a lot safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u346	One question from Mr Wassenberg has not yet been answered. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u347	One question has indeed not been answered. I had asked about vulnerable students and vulnerable teachers. The minister says it's up to the institution to deliver customization. I understand that, too. Customization costs. You can't say much about it in general, but you can say that it often costs money. My question was whether the Minister was prepared to consider this at least if she was asked to contribute to the costs. You can't say anything general about it. I also understand that the Minister cannot give a blank cheque, but I would like to know from the Minister how she handles a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u348	We created a National Programme for Education earlier this year, which also makes a lot of additional resources available in MBO and higher education, for example for additional guidance for students. In this way it can be ensured that every student can book a course of study and be well supervised under the current conditions. That's a lot of money. That's what's going to happen for the next two years. When institutions come to me and ask for additional resources for matters that lead to additional costs, I think: you have just received huge amounts of extra money in recent times, precisely to give that guidance a proper form. Moreover, I have not yet received a signal from an institution that this would lead to financial frictions. Mr. Chairman. Then I discussed the questions raised in the field of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u349	There is another question from Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u350	Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I agree with her that it is very important that there should be customisation when a student cannot come to the institution because of his or her health. Every student is different. Each training is different, also in scale. I think it would be wise to discuss this very explicitly with institutions as well. I might have a little suggestion in advance. I understand the point very well that you cannot ask teachers that they and online provide good education and can stand in front of a group. For example, there could be a temporary agreement for lectures to be included. That happens in some places already. It doesn't happen everywhere, because there is fear that the rest will not come. Perhaps that is a good deal to make with the educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u351	People have been used to doing it lately and it is also nice for students who were at the lecture to look back when you just had that moment when you weren't quite sharp during that hour. I'm sure we'll take that suggestion with us. That is actually something that is almost standard and that benefits everyone. On the other hand, I also understand that institutions do not want to organise it in such a way that it is an invitation for everyone to stay home, because we need this interaction between students. I feel like everyone's so happy they're allowed to go again, that everybody's going to go massive. I'm sure we'll take the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u352	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is still an opportunity for a second deadline in which additional questions may be asked or motions may be tabled. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motions as far as I'm concerned. I do have a question about perspective in the consultations with the event sector. We're getting really heartbreaking stories there. Actually, the Minister didn't go into that. For example, only JenV appears on a consultation, while the economic side is also important. Or it's said in the hospitality industry: we're just gonna bring something along because something's been mentioned in the media. Support packages from generic to customized. We think that's fine if things keep going well. We'd like to ask you to look a little wider than just discotheques. There are also seasonal sectors that suffer. Then the vaccination sites. I hope that the Minister will be able to promise that he will also monitor how the different regions are doing this and that we will look not only at neighbourhoods in Rotterdam, but also at rural areas. Then the QR codes. Those are important for a lot of people, especially when testing for access becomes more important. Reference is made to the helpdesk. We're getting a lot of complaints about the helpdesk. People don't get through that sometimes or they're sent from the locker to the wall. I'd like another comment on that. Finally, thank you for the commitment to look also at the information for employers to ask for vaccinations under the duty of health care. We're wondering when it'll be possible to get to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u354	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u355	Mr. Chairman. A motion and two more questions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that corona tickets are valid after recovery of COVID-19, following a recent negative test or vaccination;]] [[Whereas, to date, free testing for entry has cost hundreds of millions of euros of taxpayers' money;]] [[having noted that on 20 September each Dutch person aged 12 years and over may have been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus;]] [[noting that other European countries intend to phase out free testing for entry and travel during that period;]] [[considers that it is reasonable to establish a different relationship between costs for individuals and society after that date;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards establishing a principle of benefit in the testing of access, on the basis of its own contribution;]] [[calls on the Government also to establish a system for non-vaccinating Dutch citizens and also to refrain from this own contribution in the rare case that testing for access regardless of vaccination status becomes necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte, Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Van der Molen and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1398]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u356	Two more questions. As far as the pharmacists are concerned, the Minister is not enthusiastic, but he wants to talk. That's nice. I hope he wants to take a serious look at that, because pharmacies are obviously places where people at risk often go. Those are the people we hope will be able to keep them out of hospitals. With regard to occupational vaccination: in line with hepatitis B, I would like to hear from the Minister when he can give us more information on this. In fact, I think it is important to respond to these questions in time for the autumn. Hopefully we'll find it in the next letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u357	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to lift all the corona measures immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to introduce mandatory corona admissions as from 20 September,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to continue to issue test certificates free of charge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 75% of contamination occurs in the home situation;]] [[whereas it is therefore very important that people receive clear and concrete advice on how to adequately ventilate their homes;]] [[noting that the Prime Minister's opinion that the house should be aired once a day is insufficient;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to provide immediate and more serious ventilation advice in order to prevent the spread and contamination of aerosols as much as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1399]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1400]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1401]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1402]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u359	And finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to increase substantially the ic capacity and number of intensive and ic nurses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1403]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u360	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u361	Thank you, Mr President. I had prepared two motions, but I do not have to submit them anymore, because Mr Wilders has just tabled them in a similar way. At least that was about not introducing a corona vaccination certificate now and certainly not putting costs on top of it for testing. Anyway, those motions have already been filed. When Minister De Jonge was answering and it was about the healthcare salaries, my interruptions were over. This debate is, of course, well known here and his answer was also well known, but that answer is inadequate and not acceptable to us. This simply has to do with the fact that the cabinet may be outgoing, but the Chamber is not. We are not in a position to keep moving forward, even now, of simply carrying out a motion, a proposal from, among other things, the SP, which has been adopted here, namely that these healthcare salaries should be raised. We are simply not okay with the cabinet moving it forward again and again. We all know Prince's Day is gonna be an important moment. Then the plans for next year become clear again. We simply want this to be settled, no matter how the formation continues. There is a very clear statement by the majority of the House of Representatives that this must be done now. We do not therefore think it acceptable that the cabinet should wait any longer to postpone the implementation of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u362	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik van de PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u363	Mr. Chairman. After today, the discussion seems a little narrowed to the issue of whether or not we are going to pay for testing for access. But, of course, it is much broader on what we expect from the coming months. How do we relate to each other and what do we accept from each other? Essential choices will therefore also have to be made around 17 September. Thank you, of course, for the answers. The issue of hybrid education is very important to me, because we do not have a vaccination obligation, but we also cannot fully protect the vulnerable. I therefore believe that a form of hybrid education should be available. Mrs Bikker will also be tabling a motion on my behalf. Then the exams and exams. I have heard the generous commitment, but I am a little concerned if it will be well in time, because they really only have a day or ten to settle it, also in connection with the schedules. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas MBO institutions, colleges and universities may only receive a maximum of 75 pupils in one local lesson by releasing the 1.5 metres;]] [[Whereas this ensures that there is only limited room for planned tests;]] [[calls on the Government to allow examinations, examinations and tests as soon as possible in large spaces at 1.5 metres without maximising the number of participants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik, Mr Paternotte, Mr Westerveld, Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van der Woude.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1404]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u364	I saw that there were some points and commas in the operative part that were weird, excuses for that, but you don't notice that when you read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u365	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u366	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had two motions, but Mr Wilders has already tabled a motion on the contribution. So I have another question and another motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only 1.5% of people in low-income countries had the opportunity to be vaccinated;]] [[noting that the World Health Organisation states that each country must be able to inoculate 10% of the population and therefore calls on rich countries not to go into a third shot, the so-called "booster vaccines";]] [[noting that the risk of virus mutants is widespread without global protection and that experts seriously doubt the added value and acute need of booster vaccines;]] [[Whereas a pandemic calls for international solidarity, both morally and epidemiologically;]] [[calls on the Government not to proceed with the operation of booster vaccines until a significant improvement in global vaccine availability has been achieved, with the exception of citizens who consider a booster vaccine to be highly desirable by their own medical practitioner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1405]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u367	Then I have another question about the difference between Formula 1 and festivals. We just had a little debate on that. I heard the outgoing Prime Minister say very clearly that only replaced tickets are sold. I get several signals that there are also tickets being sold that have been put on paper, but that the intention is for people to network with each other. I would like to ask how it is going to be monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u368	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u369	Mr. Chairman. I take up the thread that Mrs Westerveld has left behind, namely Formula One. I find it really incomprehensible and incomprehensible to explain that cultural festivals, music festivals and events cannot go on for more than 750 people. The culture sector has already been cut off by the cabinet and that is where this comes in. At the same time, Formula 1 is given full space. 70,000 people per day are brought there, often on trains: 10,000 per hour. Irresponsible. And those fixed seats really are nothing, because they are immediately abandoned at the profit of Max Verstappen. I know that, and so does the Prime Minister. There is also damage to climate, nature and biodiversity. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that organising a Formula 1 race on the Zandvoort circuit is very negative for the nitrogen crisis, the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis;]] [[noting that the cultural event De Parade in Amsterdam could not take place for 1,750 people because it would give "too high a risk of traffic between people";]] [[Whereas the organisation of a multi-day Formula 1 event, to which 70,000 people come a day, leads to a strong "high risk of movement between people";]] [[calls on the government not to allow the Formula 1 race in Zandvoort to continue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1406]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u370	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions and one question. First of all, the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the distance measure is released in higher education and MBO;]] [[noting that this makes physical education more and more possible;]] [[Whereas physical education for some students with a need for support, caregivers or chronically ill students is not yet sufficiently safe;]] [[calls on the government to engage with the MBO Council, Association of Colleges and VSNU to ensure that hybrid education remains possible for this group of students until conditions are also safe for them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has again expressed its intention to make people pay for tests for corona access tickets in due course;]] [[whereas the Court has expressly stated that there should be no vaccination constraint or urge;]] [[Furthermore, considering that the Health Council identifies financial incentives as a form of urge for which justification is necessary;]] [[Whereas the introduction of payment for testing for access may have an impact on public confidence, social unity and the willingness to be vaccinated;]] [[calls on the Government to at least seek advice from the Health Council before the start of any legislative process, both on the possible justification and proportionality as well as on the impact on vaccination readiness and on what measures actually contribute to increasing the willingness to vaccinate and to follow the rules and guidelines of the government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Kuik and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1407]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1408]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u371	Mr President, I would like to ask one more question, and it also refers to testing for access.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u372	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u373	He's very short, Mr. Chairman. I understand that even for weddings that testing for access is currently being requested. I ask the Minister whether this fits in with his plans on the principle of profit and everything that has been said before. To be honest, I find that difficult to rhyme. A concert by the Toppers is another category. Here I really do see... I really would like to emphasise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u374	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u375	Mr. Chairman. We had no additional motions. I would just like to make a few concluding remarks. What we are most concerned about is that we see that we are slowly growing into a state of medical apartheid. We get a lot of e-mails about that, from people who are worried and who see that they are slowly being ejected from society. We have, of course, talked for a long time about our own contribution. That is really only a small part of us. All you have to do is watch the news. Today, for example, a UT lecturer who might also be of interest to the Minister of Education who literally says in an interview: without a shot, a student will no longer enter me. What kind of signal does that send out to people, students, who don't want to get injected? So even today in the news that banks, publishers such as De Blauwe Tiger, who are critical of the corona policy take away their bank accounts. That's all that's happening. Our own videos are now being deleted, some of them, from the Internet. Van Haga is also the case. I sincerely hope that the Chamber will see what is happening here, how serious that is, how fundamental rights are being violated on all sides, and that we will stop continuing on this path.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u376	I think it was the Volkskrant in which there was a very clear story about regrets. Of course, there are more and more places in hospitals where you see people saying, "I haven't been vaccinated." But they'll be admitted. There was also a gentleman who was very open about it, which is very brave. Does Mr Van Houwelingen also see that through the spread of all this disinformation there are people who make a choice that they will regret later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u377	No, I don't. I don't see these messages or I hardly see them. What I do see are reports of regret. I see a lot of people who have side effects. That's mostly what I see. That frame of "disinformation" is such a stupid frame. We're in politics here. This means that there are different perspectives. You don't have the truth and neither do I. The idea that someone knows the truth and knows exactly what's going on is a crazy idea. So yes, there will be people who regret not being injected; they will. On the other hand, there are also a lot of people who regret having them do so. Otherwise, I can't formulate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u378	Thank you. I'll see if Mrs Pouw-Verweij from JA21 is here. Or is Mr Van der Staaij also making his contribution on behalf of JA21? I see that Mrs Pouw-Verweij does not wish to speak. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u379	Mr. Chairman. In any case, I have a motion in style which I would like to make on behalf of Mrs Pouw-Verweij. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it should be assumed that the corona virus will continue to be around for a long time;]] [[Whereas it is important to have a wide range of preventive and curative resources;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to further promote and inform the Court of Justice of the development and use of potentially promising medicinal products against COVID-19,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1409]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u380	That's the motion I wanted to table. I would also like to say a few words about this question of access testing, which has been discussed extensively in the interruptions. We want to ask for money in the future for this test for access. I have already made it clear that the SGP Group is not in favour of this and that we will therefore at least support Mr Wilders' motion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u381	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u382	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions from the DENK Group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 13 European countries a vaccination certificate is a condition for access to entertainment and catering facilities;]] [[noting that European countries such as Italy, France and Greece have made the COVID-19 vaccine mandatory for some of the healthcare workers;]] [[Whereas the Prime Minister has indicated that where organisations wish to opt for a vaccination obligation, the court must rule on this;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare rapidly a legislative proposal to ensure that organisations cannot oblige workers to be vaccinated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RIVM is expecting an influenza outbreak in the coming autumn period;]] [[Whereas influenza and COVID-19 infection show overlapping signs of disease;]] [[Whereas, on the basis of the disease symptoms, no distinction can be made between influenza infection or COVID-19;]] [[calls on the government from autumn onwards to test people with complaints for both COVID-19 and influenza, using the multiplex assay used in the United States, who test influenza A and B simultaneously with COVID-19,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kuzu, Mr Wilders, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Houwelingen, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Simons and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1410]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1411]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u383	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I heard a suggestion tonight to call 50-plussers. I don't know if I heard it all right. I heard the Minister would like to investigate. In my view, this is another proposal that could violate rights, namely the right to privacy. I am therefore very curious to see how, according to the Minister, that would be feasible or how that would be possible on the basis of our GDPR. What can, of course, also be very helpful is what Mr Wilders has already indicated in a motion, namely air, air, air. That is why I am tabling a motion to supplement this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that eight out of ten infections occur at home;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to launch an intensive (social) media campaign to inform people in the Netherlands about the importance of ventilation, including tips on how to ventilate and how often;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Wilders, Mr Van Haga, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1412]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u384	Mr. Chairman. For months it has been said by this cabinet that it is against a vaccination obligation, -exercise or -exercise. Despite clarity on the part of the Chamber today, it is clear from this debate that it is not clear to the cabinet what is meant by coercion, urge or duty and that we must also take into account unforeseen situations in which we may have to take account of a duty in certain professions. This again shows that the cabinet is pre-empting the defying of the physical integrity, the right of self-determination and the freedom of choice of Dutch citizens. Of course, I find all sorts of things about that. I also think that everything about the whole corona strategy is clear. Apart from that, I have one motion today to continue to protect the risk groups in our society as much and as long as possible, because the cabinet seems to forget them structurally. I am tabling this motion with my colleague, Mr Gündoğan. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to explore the option of no longer requiring mouth caps in public transport by mid-September;]] [[noting that it is impossible to allow travellers at any time to keep a distance of 1,5 metres in the DV;]] [[noting that this decision will pose a major risk to people in groups at risk and non-responders;]] [[Whereas public transport must be safe, accessible and available to all;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the obligation to keep the mask in public transport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1413]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u386	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u387	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first motion is about the festivals. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the risk of visiting a football match is acceptable;]] [[Whereas the risk of visiting Formula 1 is acceptable;]] [[calls on the government to also allow festivals immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Haga, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Wilders and Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1414]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u388	The second motion concerns the lifting of all corona measures. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the hospital occupation has been standardised;]] [[Whereas most people have had corona and/or have been vaccinated;]] [[calls on the Government to lift all corona measures immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1415]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u389	I will reopen the debate and give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u390	Mr. Chairman. With regard to the various comments on the aid measures, I would like to say once again that every step we take we always look at appropriate support measures, because the consequences for businesses and entrepreneurs are sometimes heartbreaking. I really want to have said that about those questions. The same applies, of course, to all other sectors affected, not just companies. Also in the cultural sector and in other sectors. We very much hope that a further step can be taken in September, but then too, it is always based on broad advice, including from the OMT and from the planning agencies. There's a lot of contact with sectors. Sometimes that's just JenV, sometimes only Economic Affairs and sometimes together. Very often Ferd Grapperhaus and Mona Keijzer have joint discussions with sectors. Also Ingrid van Engelshoven is sometimes present, when it comes to culture and education. That's gonna get really big. The second is the nighthoreca. That is really the intention to look at the possibilities. Of course, this is going to be a very ugly arrangement, because it is incredibly difficult to reach one sector, because it will remain closed for longer than 1 October, while the aid packages, as we now foresee, will end on 1 October. That's what the cabinet's gonna talk about: what then, how and who? Suppose it really is in the most far-reaching form, then we have to arrange specific support for the nighthoreca. That is what I said at last Friday's press conference. The network tickets. It really has to be under the said rules. I don't know exactly what a network ticket is, but I suspect that because of the fact that you're in someone's network, you're getting a ticket. That would be okay in itself, but if the intention is for them to go around with a glass of champagne or white wine, they shouldn't. That's just a violation of the rules. Then there's the motions. First of all, the motion in part No. 1399 by Mr Wilders. Unfortunately, it is simply not possible at this stage. I must therefore discourage the motion. The motion in part No. Mr Wilders' 1402 is about ventilation. As far as I'm concerned, that judgment gets Chamber. It has previously been recognised that ventilation is of great importance. The state-of-the-art letter describes the approach. We're going to set up a hand-out and we've talked today about the urgency and the further communication. The motion in part No. 1406 is not recommended, as explained. Formula 1 shall be organised in accordance with the applicable rules. If you wanted to, it's not possible to ban an event that meets the rules all of a sudden. The motion in part No. That is Mr Wassenberg's 1406. The motion in part No. 1412 by Mrs Van der Plas also receives judgment Chamber. This is very similar to Mr Wilders' motion on the same point. The motion in part No. 1413 about the duty of the mouth cap in the O.V. I must advise against. If it is possible to abolish the one-and-a-half-metre society, which is not yet established, there is neither reason nor justification to maintain the oral cap requirement in the O.V., because then 1.5 metres away is as a rule no longer in the advice at that time. The motion in part No. 1414 by Mr Van Haga, with reference to the debate, I should like to advise against. The same applies to the motion in part No. Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u391	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u392	Thank you, Mr President. There are a number of questions and a number of motions. First of all, the question of the VVD whether I can promise to see how it develops with the different vaccination sites and whether it all stays close enough. The answer is yes. Then the QR code. It's important to a lot of people. You're damn right I didn't. Most of the people can use the QR code, because it usually just works. There are a number of real exceptions where it still does not work properly. There's a solution to that. It can be found on the site of coronacheck.nl. In addition, there is also a helpdesk. It's very easy to reach. It happens once or twice that it doesn't work immediately. That's always gonna be the case. It's always gonna be like this, because it's never gonna be perfect. At Coronacheck.nl you will be made aware of all your questions. That actually works pretty well. Then the information for employers and employees about how to deal with what you may and may not discuss as an employer and how to deal with any conflict of duties you may experience. I would like to return to that in the letter for the decision-making on 20 September, which will probably come back to the Chamber on 17 September. That will probably be the letter on which we will have a next debate. I would like to return to that in that letter. D66 wants to know more about that conversation with the pharmacists. That's what we're gonna feed, and we're gonna involve the G.D.D.s. I will return to that in the letter of 17 September. The Christian Union is asking for tests for weddings. Currently, an event can take place unplaced up to 750 people. Then it's really about an event. For the rest, there is just the 1.5 meters in the catering industry, because it was not very good to release them using access tests. That is the case for the moment. What we want is to offer that opening and then we want to work with tickets for larger groups, for groups over 75, which will mean a vaccination certificate for most people. I would like to underline that for a moment. Then the motion to part No. 1398 of Paternotte c.s. I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber, referring to what we discussed in the first term. The motion in part No. I should like to advise Mr Wilders not to do so, referring to the same first period. The motion in part No. I would also advise against Mr Wilders, referring to the same first term. The motion in part No. 1403 on the extension of ic capacity I would like to advise against referring to my own term, but also referring to all the previous times that the motion has been tabled and to my colleague Mr Van Ark's reply. We have talked about this several times. Then the motion to part No. 1405 on no booster vaccines. I do not think this motion is sensible because it makes a dichotomy which I do not think is appropriate. I have just said that it is not a question of whether or not it is a question of whether or not it is a question of whether or not it is a question of whether or not it is a question of whether or not it is a If you're gonna wait until the rest of the world is vaccinated, it could take a long time. I think you're failing our vulnerable people with that. I would really advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1408 requests an opinion from the Health Council prior to the start of any legislative process. That's gonna run a lot in time. I don't think it's wise to do that. What I would like to do is to see how we involve the experts we are talking to anyway. There's an opinion from the Health Council, and I'd like to get involved. By the way, the experts who are now advising us are also partly involved in the same Health Council. We can certainly use expert advice, but I am not going to do another separate consultation of the Health Council in a legislative process, because we are going to run far too far in time. Then it doesn't make much sense at all anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u393	The motion in part No. 1408 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u394	Yes. Then the motion to part No. 1410. It is asking for a legislative proposal to be prepared to ensure that organisations cannot oblige workers. We have had the debate on this. I'm not preparing this bill. I don't recommend this motion in the first place. However, I am going to have that conversation with employers and workers in care and come back to what the handles might be to deal with the dilemmas if part of society has been vaccinated and part of society has not been vaccinated. I'll get back to you on that. I do not know whether there is any reason to change anything in the laws and regulations. I don't want to anticipate that either. Then the motion to part No. 1409 on the promotion of the development of promising medicines. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. It is a motion by members Van der Staaij and Pouw-Verweij, a united cooperation between the SGP and JA21. All day, actually. That's nice, that kind of thing. We must appreciate that. Then the motion to part No. 1411 on influenza testing. I'm not gonna recommend that motion. For influenza, there is a vaccination programme for the elderly and vulnerable. How the testing takes place in healthcare institutions is up to the care institutions themselves. They have everything they'd like to use. Out there, it just doesn't make sense to do that combination test. I'm not going to recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u395	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u396	Thank you, Mr President. Two motions in the field of education. I was just surprised that the motion in part No. 1404 came from Mrs Kuiken and others, because Mrs Kuiken herself spoke of a generous promise. I was once taught that when you make a generous commitment, there is usually no need for a motion. You're asking me to do that as soon as possible. I will also check with the institutions when a problem arises. On what time? Is it gonna be any different? Where does that occur? Is there an alternative? That's what happens with the RAI or Ahoy, for example. We'll see if we can fit a sleeve on it, just because you don't have the alternative in education with a ticket. The motion says "as soon as possible." We are really going to see what the problem is and we will get back to you as soon as possible. I promised to do that for the next decision. So the motion gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u397	First of all, I have an announcement for the clerk. Mrs Van der Woude of the VVD would also like to sign in. I tabled the motion because the letter is too late for the next decision. My entrance is not as good as your entrance into the field of education, but I received a notice immediately after the answer: we really have a shorter deadline to be able to settle this in connection with schedules. That is why I tabled this motion, together with colleagues, as an additional support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u398	Okay. Thank you. The motion in part No. 1407 is about hybrid education. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. I'd like to make one reservation. I read the motion in such a way that that conversation should not lead to the fact that in all cases there is that hybrid form for all those students. You also do not want us to ask teachers for the impossible in terms of workload. We talked about the online lectures. That's pretty easy. But in some working group forms it is still quite a challenge to put a hybrid form next to it. It's just not always gonna work. We do what we can and as much as we can, but we don't ask anyone to make it impossible. If I may interpret the motion that way, she will be judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u399	I'm gonna take a look at the petitioners, see if they're okay with that. Mrs Bikker is the first to nod. That'll give the motion judgment Chamber. This brings us to the end of the debate on the development of the corona virus. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the directors and also to the Members of Parliament and the viewers at home. We're gonna vote tonight, too. A number of Members of Parliament have indicated that it will take about half an hour to prepare the voting list, but also to have internal consultations. Of course, we're in another building, so it's just gonna take a little more time to coordinate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-08-18-tweedekamer-6.u400	At 11:15 p.m., we're going to vote.
