ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft decision on gas extraction in Groningenveld. I would like to welcome both directors, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, as well as the Members of Parliament and the viewers at home. I would like to agree with Members that they can ask six questions in the first term of the Members of Parliament and also six questions in the first term of the governors. I would ask you to keep the interruptions short, because we are with many parties, so that everyone can come to their senses. We also have some maiden speeches, but we'll get there later. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP for her term. All Members have four minutes' speaking time. No, unfortunately no maiden speech for you; we all know you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Exactly two weeks ago, this House of Representatives was installed. This is the very first plenary majority debate that is not about ourselves. That's telling. It is also significant that the first substantive majority debate in the new Lower House is about Groningen and that is still necessary in 2021. It's painfully necessary. There's a record of over 30,000 damage reports open. Almost 25,000 houses are on the waiting list for reinforcements. After all these years, only 7% has been done. Over the past few weeks, the news reports about Groningen have been covering each other. News: Shell and Exxon have already received at least 1.5 billion from the cabinet to compensate for the decline in gas production. News: Shell and Exxon refuse to pay the bill for Groningen. News: too little money for the reinforcement; church must break the promises to its inhabitants. News message: the evidence is being messed up again; recovery of claims is being shut down. Those are not just letters in the newspaper; they are sledgehammers for all those people who have been waiting so long. Take Sandra from Overschild. Her youngest son is almost 5. He's never had an ordinary house before. They live in a swap house because their own house isn't safe, but they don't get enough money to rebuild their old house. Sandra says: we are at an end; all we want is just our own house back; is that really too much to ask? Take Monique from Roodeschool. In 2016 their home appears to be so unsafe that they are no longer allowed to live in it, but there is no solution. In 2020, a fire will be set. Their house and furniture are gone. And now the insurance company and the NCG are fighting and neither of them are willing to pay. And Monique says, "Our lives have stopped for eight years." Mr. Chairman. Those aren't the two most poignant stories. Those are examples. Thousands, thousands of Groningen are in this situation. I began my speech by saying that this is the first plenary debate during this period that is not about ourselves. But actually, that's bullshit. 'Cause it's gonna be okay. Here at this place it could have been prevented that Sandra's 5-year-old son has never had a real home. We can't take that back here today. We can't undo a great deal of suffering. But here and now we can influence how he looks back at it later. Will an unreliable government that has crushed its parents be the only thing or did there come a turnaround, a happy ending, a end to it? Mr. Chairman. I'm going to ask the Cabinet a list of questions, but my most important question is to the Chamber itself. First, the questions to the cabinet. Is it true that Shell and Exxon have already received at least 1.5 billion compensation? Is it true that Shell and Exxon are now refusing to pay their share of the damages bill? Is it true that Shell and Exxon are now refusing to pay their share of the bill for the reinforcements? Since when do you know this? Are you prepared to make all contracts, appointments and interview reports with Shell and Exxon public? What is your assessment of the attitude of these companies? What are you gonna do? Is it true that municipalities do not have enough money for the reinforcements, after we have heard here that money was not the problem? What are you gonna do about it? Do you agree with the SP that it is indigestible that after all these years only 7% of homes have been strengthened and there is now too little money? Will the reinforcement operation be completed by 2025? Where's the overall plan? How are you going to ensure that the more than 30,000 damages that are now available are handled properly? Do you agree with us that there should be no interference with the suspicion of evidence? Do you agree with us and the region of Groningen and North Drenthe that the 1,450 applications that are now standing still should be resumed? And how are you going to ensure that there is no inequality between villages and neighborhoods? How are you going to ensure that foundation damage is dealt with? How are you going to make my motion on the fall in value? Mr. Chairman. Finally, my last sentence. We've been talking about ourselves here for two weeks now. We have talked about how important power and counterpower are, how important dualism is and how important the House of Representatives is. Today we can make sure that we put that into practice. This is the first debate on the substance. What does the House of Representatives say to Arjan of almost 5? What are we gonna do? Are we going to do this for years or are we going to make Groningen a top priority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Then I give the floor to Mrs Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr President, thank you. Gas extraction in Groningen has an immense impact on the inhabitants of Groningen. They have for years been concerned about their safety, about the progress of the reinforcement operation and experience the unsolicited nuisance of the damage caused by gas extraction. Gas extraction has major social consequences, such as uncertainty and anxiety, and also leads to a decline in the value of buildings and land. The consequences for agriculture, the cultural heritage; they all deserve our attention. Recently we discussed the law on reinforcement here in the Lower House. So I will not go into that too much further. This is the first debate we have in a new Chamber composition. In any case, I would like to make an agreement here with both ministers that they are still trying to send letters on Groningen a little bit wider before the start of a debate than what happened to us yesterday. We got a bill of lading. And it is that this debate started a little later today, because otherwise I could hardly have read it anymore. My group will not be able to support it in this way either. And that is not really okay, that we are dealing with information in this way. Mr. Chairman. Today we are having a debate that was requested more than two and a half years ago and has become topical because the NAM is questioning the compensation of the damage and seems to be interfering with the reverse burden of proof. Can the Minister assure us that this reverse burden of proof will not be affected? The NAM has to pay. It doesn't fit for them to question their grievances and handling the damage, now that someone else is finally doing that job. Because of their own actions, social costs have increased and that does not suit them. It looks like a total disinterest and only a cold legal approach to the NAM. Is that how the Minister feels? Does he recognize that statue? In the NRC, on the NOS and at RTV Noord we have also read several reports about this. Can the Minister say a little more about that? The claims for damages and the reinforcement of the Groningen buildings cost billions. And although it is real that after years of taking advantage of the gas extraction, the Netherlands also provides financial support for Groningen, the CDA believes that all the parties that have benefited from this are at stake, not just the taxpayer, or that is the municipality just referred to by Mrs Beckmann, or we here on behalf of all residents from the Empire. Then there is today's subject, namely the phasing-out. Where are we now? Can the Minister indicate if we are on schedule? Steps have been taken not only in Groningen, but also in the nine large industrial consumers of low-caloric gas. More than a year ago, we had a lawsuit in this Chamber. Is the conversion of these companies also on track? Thank you to these companies for their cooperation. We read that foreign customers are making serious efforts to reduce the use of Groninger gas. For this, all those parties that make this possible in practice deserve a great compliment. From the Netherlands: thank you for doing so for our inhabitants in Groningen! With us in the built environment it runs quite hard. What are Ministers doing to reduce gas use in the built environment and to give a positive boost to sustainability? The CDA has been advocating hybrid options for some time now. Can the ministers indicate what they are doing for that at the moment? Mr. Chairman. The consent decision of 2018 underlying this debate outlines the expectation that the reduction of gas extraction should have reduced the number of earthquakes and their severity after about 15 years. What is the current forecast, given the various developments in recent years? We would like to get the current state of affairs and also hear how many houses will need to be strengthened in 2021. That one question, yes, of course it had to be asked. Mr. Chairman. On 15 December, we tabled a motion on the depreciation scheme, requesting clarification by mid-month. We read in yesterday's letter that it takes more time. Our question to the Minister is: how will he in the meantime ensure that work is already being done on the issues in the Beckerman motion, in order to prepare the requested plan of action and a settlement in order to achieve that just compensation? That is a question we have at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u5	I see an interruption by Mrs Beckman. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u6	I heard Mrs. Agnes Mulder be as angry as I heard about the reports that Shell and Exxon are now refusing to pay their fair share of the bill. She rightly criticises this; she also criticises the uncertainty that this leads to among residents. But what also leads to uncertainty and unrest is to stop part of the damage handling. Yesterday, a letter was sent from the Groningen and North Drenthe Region to take it back as soon as possible. I would like to know from Mrs Agnes Mulder whether she would like to make a proposal with me to call on the cabinet to talk to the IMG to do so immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u7	I should like to be the first to hear from the Minister what commitments these ministers can make. I imagine the Minister has already had talks with the Groningen Region and North Drenthe. That is the area where I myself come from, by the way. So that's always close to me and I've been drawing a lot of attention to that in recent years, to see what's the latest. If it's still necessary to do extra things, then I'm always open to it. I haven't read the letter yet, so I'm gonna take a look at it first if Mrs Beckerman is okay with that. Then I'll get back to her in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u8	I understand that, but it's also a principle, of course. For years, residents have not believed, and for many years it has been said that this damage is not caused by mining. After a very long battle, it has been possible to regulate that reversal of the burden of proof, to ensure that residents no longer have to fight that unequal battle. And now it's getting to that again. In any case, I would like a statement of principle from Mrs Agnes Mulder that this really should not happen, which, once again, causes residents to lose support and confidence in the government. Do we agree on that? I'll ask her through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u9	In preparing for this debate, I wondered: should I table a motion on this or should I not? In principle, we've just regulated this legally. So it would be really weird if we re-recorded that into something less far than the law. I simply think that the Minister should clarify today that there is no question of that being done. We made that decision here in this Chamber, didn't we? Surely it would be too crazy for words to be put overboard by anyone? Of course, there is also the question of who ultimately pays the bills. There are ministers here who were quite clear in their letters that they are certainly going to put the bill in the NAM. That's how I took those letters. They were even very clear: it clearly stated that the account goes there. Should that account not be paid by them, I believe that the Groningen or the Drents, who are entitled to the reverse burden of proof, should never be the victims of it. I want to be absolutely clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you. There are some changes in the list of speakers, so I shall now give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union. That's like his maiden speech. We have the use in this Chamber that there are no interruptions at a maiden speech. I understand that I am robbing Mr. Grinwis with the list adjustment. I would add Mrs van der Plas from BBB to the list of speakers. Mr Wassenberg will be a little late. Mr Grinwis has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Two weeks after the swearing-in of the new Chamber, we are having the first real substantive debate of this period today. That's not without reason about Groningen. About gas extraction, earthquakes, damage, reinforcement and the terrifyingly long wait for a government that fails when it gets difficult. In short, it's about doing justice today. Do justice to Groningers, who have been left to their fate and who have been looked away for years. They do not want to hear words from The Hague, they want to see deeds. I grew up on an island, with the government remotely. They sometimes imposed tough rules on you and sometimes kept you waiting a long time for a permit, but I grew up in the confidence that, at the end of the day, the government is there for you and that you can trust the government. I regret to note that I am taking up the office of the government's representative and auditor at a time when you cannot simply trust the government. In fact, there is a crisis of confidence. A great deal goes wrong, especially in the relationship between honorable citizens and a government that doesn't give at home. In my wallet alone, I have to deal with unprecedented injustice, or a surcharge scandal, and unprecedented unwillingness. The Room is constantly being sent with a rug in the reed, for example when it comes to the airport Lelystad. Furthermore, I call the unprecedented impotence, or Groningen as gaswingewest, and the kafaesque situation, that drivers and politicians want to solve the gas-win problem, but not get it solved, with the result that many Groninger have been completely muttered and have no false zero confidence in the government anymore. Why don't we get it in this country, where we built Delta Works, to repair heavily damaged houses in time? My mission is, of course, to contribute to a country of peace and justice. And of course: contributing to a country where we live in harmony with the creation entrusted to us. But above all, I want to contribute to restoring confidence in government and politics. I want us to restore confidence in the government of people who have been severely affected and to whom the same government has wronged. Whether you are a parent of whom unjustly or her supplement has been taken away and who has been ruined, or that you haven't been sure your life in Groningen for so long in a house severely damaged and weakened by numerous earthquakes: we want to help them. Mr President, I am not going to be able to do that. For how can it be that small damages are quickly and generously compensated, but that Groningers with really great damages, who have often been doing their dues for ten years, are being shipped with a tip or even less? How is it that the reverse burden of proof does not work where it is most necessary, in the case of the distressing cases? How can it be that in this case a research conducted by TNO and TU Delft leads the Institute for Mining Damage Groningen to stop treating damages? An investigation that does not take into account so-called trigger effect and indirect effects. I would like a response from the Minister to these questions and, above all, the promise that the IMG will start again as a spear with what it was set up for. Mr President, additional. Gas extraction goes to zero in 2022, but how hard is it zero? And last but not least: the whole situation is not exactly conducive to the mental health of many Groningers. Is the Minister prepared to continue the financial support achieved by my predecessor Dik-Faber in the coming years? Finally, Mr President. In this week, when it is much about power and counterpower, it must also be said that one of the most far-reaching decisions of the past cabinet period was not in a government agreement at all, and not even in the passing on of the electoral programmes of the political parties in this house. After the earthquake at Zeerijp, the government decided to phase out gas extraction completely. A hopeful decision, but the follow-up was sad. That is why I hope that this dossier of unprecedented impotence will become a dossier of unprecedented effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you, Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u13	Congratulations on behalf of your fellow roommates for your maiden speech and good luck in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u15	I shall then give the floor to Mrs De Vries of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the safety of the Groningers and the faster strengthening of the buildings in Groningen, it is crucial that the gas extraction goes down as quickly as possible. In the government agreement of the missionary cabinet it was also agreed to reduce gas extraction to 2 billion cubic metres. Later on, the outgoing cabinet decided to bring gas extraction to zero in 2022, in an average year. You don't just do that. A large number of actions are needed and set in motion. Exports had to be phased out. A nitrogen factory had to be built in Zuidbroek. The nine largest customers of low-caloric gas had to switch and there was a legal ban on the use of that gas for those companies. Are we all still on schedule with that? Last but not least, things had to be arranged with the NAM. Agreements with the NAM on the handling of damage and reinforcement, guarantees from Shell and Exxon Mobile for damage and repair, and distance from a possible claim for the remaining gas reserves. This was agreed in the main agreement, including a change in the system of payments for the gas field in Groningen. Mr. Chairman. That agreement on the main lines of 2018 was necessary in order to reduce the gas extraction in Groningen as quickly as possible for the safety of the Groningers. Trouw reported that Shell and Exxon Mobile had been allowed to hold at least 1.5 billion euros in additional profits from the State since 2018. Can the Minister give an idea of the amounts involved in changing these payments so far and for the future? First of all, an indicative overview has been given. Mr. Chairman. The NAM, Shell and Exxon Mobile have a large and specific moral responsibility for the misery caused in Groningen. They must take that responsibility and pay generously for the costs of repairing and strengthening. All charges that can be charged to the NAM must also be charged and reimbursed. Can the Minister guarantee that? Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister confirm that he is trying to get the best out of the can, and that legal proceedings are not avoided if they are unexpectedly needed? As far as the VVD is concerned, there should be no lack of legal resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u17	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u18	Mrs De Vries knows that I have been advocating this for a long time, and I am glad that the VVD also says: "Don't eat the cheese from the bread and put in whatever it takes. But Mrs De Vries also mentioned the moral responsibility of NAM and Shell and Exxon. I am curious how the VVD sees that those companies have to fulfil that responsibility. Because I see companies that employ an entire army of lawyers to get rid of any responsibility and to contribute as little as possible. We have to stop that, don't we? Is Mrs De Vries prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u19	I have made it very clear that I think it is a moral responsibility. I also liked the words of Mrs Agnes Mulder: it should not be a cold legal consideration, nor should they want to have the best of it. If things don't go well, it's gonna have to go bad. I believe that the Minister should then use all the legal means we have to ensure that payments are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u20	We are in complete agreement on that. But how does the VVD assess the current arrangement of the NAM? Under the reservoir control, the company has yet to negotiate again. It was caused by them. It was a big mess and there were a lot of requests. The government solves it, and then they don't want to pay the whole bill. Well, then they've already crossed that line, haven't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u21	I'll be right back to those two parts in my text. I call them, among other things, "scarcelyhan's kitchen manager." They really give that impression. I don't think it should be. So if we think that we should be paid, and we do not get out of it in a friendly way, then I think that the Minister should just look at what legal means he has, and that he should go there as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u22	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u23	I just mentioned it: the NAM gives the impression of being a rude kitchen manager. That is not a good thing, especially when it comes to restoring confidence among the Groningen people. First of all, there is an arbitration between the State and the NAM on the amounts to be reimbursed around the Norg gas storage. And that Norg is now crucial for the phasing out of gas extraction. Can the Minister tell us why one did not come out together, and what then is a market-based remuneration? It's about that last one. It's about the fraternity. And when can it be clear? Second. The NAM stated in a letter that it considers that the presumption of evidence has been applied in an area too large, and that the bar to remove the suspicion of evidence is too high. Therefore, in the first half of 2020, the NAM only paid the costs of the reinforcement operation subject to reservation. What does the Minister think of this attitude? I have already said something about this in the interruptive debate. When can we be clear about this? Mr. Chairman. Previously, I indicated that I cannot imagine the NAM saying that it wants to compensate ten times for the repair of a crack in a wall, which may cost a lot more than a fundamental solution that will prevent those cracks from arising. Is the Minister talking to the NAM about this yet? Mr. Chairman. I hope that the oil companies will accept their responsibility, that we can focus all our energy on solving the problems of the Groningen people and that we can ensure that the buildings in Groningen are safe as soon as possible. I hope that will restore the confidence of the Groningen people. Finally, I have one other point. There are still a lot of substantive issues. I think we should have a committee debate on this, because there are still a lot of things going on. I would now like to raise one point, namely the examination of the depreciation scheme. The colleague of the CDA has already done so. We believe that the legal solutions that can be found should already be considered. We also believe that the conduct of the investigation, as the Minister has now submitted to us, is rather narrow. Because no link or comparison is made with the IMG scheme. However, we would like to ask the Minister to clarify this at least, in addition to the investigation that is under way. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u24	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Grinwis for his maiden speech. I also look forward to the maiden speeches that are coming today. It's always good times to be able to catch up on your own. Mr. Chairman. I always try to look at such a debate a little bit and to look at it from the people involved. I don't think the whole of Groningen is on television right now, but there are a number of people watching it. And I think that most people who are following this debate think: well, I don't have much to expect from it, they're talking again, we're not getting anywhere with it, it's debate a hundred and so much, and what are we supposed to do with it? I'm like this myself. People think, "What is the point of this?" I am also afraid that will be the outcome of this debate. Nevertheless, it is our duty as Members of Parliament to put forward the problems each time and try to come up with solutions. I'm gonna try to do that again. But a little in this atmosphere. That's no different, because we've been seeing the same problems for years. The settlement of damages seemed to be improving again, and now we are again receiving letters from the provinces of Groningen and Drenthe, from municipalities and from 1,450 people whose damage was not granted, while the reverse burden of proof, the legal presumption of evidence, as it has been called, is simply laid down by law by the Chamber. How is it that there is another investigation into shrinkage and all kinds of other causes and that people are in uncertainty that one neighbor in the queue will be compensated for damage and not the other neighbor? The law is clear, isn't it? How is this possible, I ask the two rulers. The value reduction scheme and research setup. I think we got that letter yesterday. Mrs De Vries mentioned this in her last question. That doesn't look like shit, does it? It just doesn't seem like it's not going to be compared to the arrangement people are getting right now, does it? Then there will be a technical examination of whether civil and legal liability has been properly respected. I'm sure it's all right. The people had no rights at all, and there has finally been a model approach - there is a lot to say for that that is more generous and that is the absolute minimum. I believe that immediately. That's not a question to be asked at all, is it? It is quite clear to the Chamber that the Chamber has said this by majority, and Minister Wiebes has also made it clear that it cannot do so. You cannot now give people €10,000 or €20,000 that were suitable for €2,000. That cannot be explained and that must be compensated in a legal way, which the Minister can bear. I don't care about the latter, but the Minister wanted me to. Now we're getting an investigation into some kind of legal situation. That's impossible, isn't it? What are these people gonna think? Mkb with a fall in value. A year and a half is now going to investigate how SMEs should be compensated. Here we are. I don't think that's acceptable. I am also preparing a motion for a resolution, but I hope that when the ministers wrote that research and development will last for a year and a half, they did not consider this to be justified. Mr. Chairman. I come to the attitude of the NAM. As you know, I voted against the agreement on the broad lines. The PvdA Group and by the way other groups have done so, because I found this deal far too favourable for the Oils. But it's worse than that. The NAM still seems to be in a phase of denial of the suffering they have caused in Groningen. Every time a small account comes up, they say: hello, it can't be that high, it can't be that bad, so the legal responsibility doesn't extend. Even the VVD had to make a moral appeal to those companies. But what they do is wrong. They just have to compensate for all the damage they've caused. They must also feel responsible for the enormous misery that remains. I just mentioned a few more points. I could have talked here for 15 minutes, which are not yet running. They have to pay for that. If they do not, the Court must impose a levy, as we have done with the banks. The Minister is now working that out as a stick behind the door, but the PvdA Group is already so far away that this is inevitable. It is really unacceptable behaviour on the part of the largest companies in our society, who seem to have learned nothing from what they have done to people. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u26	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u27	Thank you, Mr President. The housing shortage in the Netherlands is huge. So basically: if you have a home today, however self-evident, you should almost be happy. Unless you're Groninger and you live in a broken house, if you have to wait years for damages and reinforcements and if you're gonna go to hell for that. How scandalous is it then that the shareholders of the NAM have taken all the spoils and received no less than 1.5 billion in compensation? And how scandalous is it that the same NAM now says that it does not want to pay all the costs for damage and reinforcement and continues to frustrate and train things? How scandalous is it, then, that the people of Groningen who have been injured have fallen into a mess of institutions and regulations, whereas many of them have not seen a penny years later? That's too scandalous for words. Last week there was an interesting article on Follow the Money with the significant title "Groningen gasmillions for facelift villa, not for solid foundations." For example, look at Haren, where mainly cosmetic damage is compensated, while people in the middle of the earthquake area, whose house is virtually collapsed due to foundation damage, have to wait and wait. How is that possible, I ask the Minister. I quote Professor Bröring. He says, "Complicated business takes a long time. Therefore, it is good for productivity and for the figures to handle the easy damages first. And it helps for the image." Can the Minister respond to that? Surely it is not the case that some sort of image game is being played here over the back of the Groningers? Surely it will not really be true that it is only about the figures and the increase in the number of damage cases that have been dealt with, so that the Minister can say nicely here: look how well things are going? Because "going well" is by no means the case, quite the contrary. The Groningen Perspective report even mentions "system victims." That's how bad it is. They're people with health problems, people who've been all mucked up and done with it. Professor Bröring says about these people: "It's not even distrust anymore. It is rather leavence and that is much and much worse." Is that, I would ask, possibly an explanation for the fact that there are now relatively more and more reports of damage from areas further away from the epicentres? And is that because people closer to those epicentres don't even report their damage nowadays, from that indulgence? Does the Minister have any idea about that? How many people no longer report their damage because they simply gave up the courage? More important than that, of course, is the question: how does the Minister ensure that those people are simply given what they are entitled to? Mr. Chairman. Do you know what it is? With the greatest ease, the Dutch billions fly to the EU, to Africa and name it all, while our own people are in misery and abandoned here for years. In his letter, the Minister states that the total cost of the damages and the reinforcement operation is likely to be around EUR 8.5 billion. Yes, a lot of money, but of course it's completely different from what has been spent over the past few years, decades, on, for example, mass immigration. I'm just saying. So we see that I am going to conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, where the priorities lie. While immigrants here in this country benefit from our system, the earthquake victims, our own people, have fallen victim to the system. It's so bad here in this country. It's the world upside down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u28	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Boucke of D66 for his maiden speech. After Mr Boucke's speech, I suggest that we suspend briefly for the congratulations to Mr Grinwis and Mr Boucke. That might be a good time to think about this. I give the floor to Mr Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u29	Mr President, thank you. In a city here 7,500 kilometres away, a woman is listening carefully to this debate. Since 31 March, Dutch politics interests her a lot more. When I was allowed to practice on this chair a week and a half ago, as a tip from her: jacket closed when you're standing there. Mom, the jacket's closed. Mr. Chairman. When my parents put me back on the plane from Paramaribo to the Netherlands more than 27 years ago, they had one message for me: take the chances we don't have here and make some of it; gather knowledge and do something useful with it. I've heard that message very well, and that's why I'm standing here in this house right now, to make something of it. That is my case: leaving our earth, our fantastic Netherlands a little better for those who come after us, in a fair and just way. Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are having this debate today, because for too long we have not dealt with Groningers fairly and fairly. The situation of Groningen touches me deeply. For too long, the Groningen have not been heard. Last Monday, I paid my first visit as a Member of Parliament. That visit was in Groningen. I have a tip for the Minister: do too, go to Groningen and talk to the people whose stories have been recorded in the black book on the initiative of Mr Beckerman. Another tip to the minister: preferably go on a Monday or a Friday, because that saves trouble. Mr. Chairman. I was received incredibly open and friendly in Groningen, while Groningers have been having a hard time for a long time. I find the resilience and strength of Groningers very admirable. I was visiting dairy farmer Nelie. For six months, she was remodeled in her house. The family lived in the barn, for a renovation that didn't make the house more beautiful, but safer. She showed multomats full of me with their damage file. All sorts of agencies came by. She even said, "I've had hundreds of strange men in my house." She never asked for that. We were also visiting Kees. He told me how the earthquake felt in Zeeripe. "As if six men were shaking his bed," he said. The utility room tore apart from the house. In the meantime, his house has been restored, but he has had to use his savings account. It was a long and energy-slurring journey. And there are still tens of thousands of Groningers in that situation: they are not taken seriously by the government and besides that their house is broken, it gives a lot of uncertainty and stress. Other colleagues mentioned that. I took those stories to me. My parents told me to gather knowledge and do something with it. That is how I intend to do it for the Groningen people. I have three important points to make. One. We're doing it for the Groningen. They haven't been heard for a long time, but they have experienced a lot of misery and they're still experiencing a lot of misery. Spaciousness and empathy suit everything we do. Two. Too often it is thought from The Hague: we have created a new law, a new regulation and a new body; it is regulated. But we're doing it for the Groningen. The implementation is very important. We must not forget them, because that ultimately helps people. Finally, my third point, on its Groningen side, I'm gonna do my best. We're doing it for the Groninger. We need to work together on perspective, on a future and on a clean, new economy. These three points, generosity, implementation and perspective, are leading me in the coming time. Mr President, finally, the legal dispute between the State and the NAM. The Minister has promised the Groninger that the NAM is out and that the Groninger will receive what he is entitled to: a safe and strong home and a property that retains its value. I therefore have the following three questions. I'm going through it real fast. One. How does the Minister guarantee that we will do it for the Groninger and that he will not suffer from this legal conflict? Two. What legal instruments does the Minister use to prevent the State, and therefore all of us, from paying for the costs rather than the NAM, where the bill should be? Then there's the last question. A place has value. It is a home and it also has an economic and financial value. That's where it's gonna go wrong. How does the Minister ensure that there is equality and justice in compensating for the decline in the value of housing? Mr President, I shall conclude. "Make some of it; gather knowledge and do something useful with it." That's what my parents told me. This personal lesson I wanted to share with you, because if you listen carefully to people, you will find that they are not looking for the impossible. They have legitimate questions. They want to be able to rely on the government. They want to build a future and they want a chance to make something of it, as I dreamed of it 27 years ago, when I came to this wonderful country. We have a special task in this house, namely the task of doing well for the Groningers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u30	Thank you, Mr. Boucke. I also congratulate you on your maiden speech. Very good luck in the House of Representatives. I shall suspend the sitting for a brief moment for the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u31	I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Forum for Democracy. In a maiden speech it is usually a bit more interactive, but I hope it is a festive moment for the members, despite the corona rules. We're gonna have another maiden speech later. In that sense, it is a festive matter with regard to the maiden speeches. You have the floor, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The interests in this dossier are great, but they are not opposed to the Forum for Democracy. For both the Netherlands and the Groningers in the mining area, it is important that we continue to produce gas from the Groninger gas field. But before I propagate Dutch natural gas, let me first express my support for all Groningers. Years of The Hague's malpractice have ensured that the Groningers no longer have any confidence. And rightly so. In 2013, no less than 54 billion cubic tons of gas were extracted. With such high depletion, the risk of seismic activity is much greater. It is a dumb and greedy government that itself caused the earthquakes over the backs of the Groningen. 2013 was also the year with most earthquakes. My first question to the Minister is therefore: can you explain why so absurdly much gas was extracted and why a responsible low level of production was not chosen? The pressure in the field has fallen over the years from 347 bar in 1963 to about 70 bar at the moment, resulting in the sound of the sandstone. The government has in no way sought ways to maintain pressure, which would reduce the risk of earthquakes. My question to the Minister is: why hasn't there been a look at water injection or other ways of keeping up the pressure in the field? Several ministers of EZK have completely failed in helping restore and compensate the Groningers. You can rightly speak of criminal government policy here. However, I would like to make a plea here for continuing gas production from the Groninger gas field, of course at a very low level of production, for example 12 billion cubic metres a year, as the State surveillance of the Mines suggested earlier, and with generous compensation for the Groningers. Firstly, gas is a clean fuel and therefore good for our environment. Methane is the shortest hydrocarbon compound we know and has a high energy value and a very clean combustion. Other countries are now changing massively to natural gas. Political Netherlands makes a big mistake as far as we are concerned by suddenly hating CH. Secondly, there is still a huge amount of gas in the Groningen gas field, which represents an enormous value. I would like to hear from the Minister what the current reserve is, as it is currently booked by the NAM. Last year there was another 600 billion cub present. That soon amounts to a sloppy EUR 360 billion that we leave in the ground. Thirdly, we are now dependent on Russia for security of supply. My question to the Minister is therefore: how will you deal with this when you have to negotiate with your back against the wall against Putin? Fourthly, security of supply is very important for our economy. Solar and wind energy contribute more to the energy mix each year, but remain marginal, intermittent and cost-increasing. We all know the problem of night dip and wind silent tip and the fact that primary energy production needs to be switched off when solar and wind energy is delivered to the network. The annual energy consumption of the Netherlands is about 3,100 petajoule, of which 44% is supplied by natural gas. My question is: what, according to the Minister, is going to be our stable, continuous form of energy in the coming decades, as he accelerates the shut down of the gas tap? Fifth, earthquake risk is manageable. We've had few major earthquakes. The heaviest earthquake had a power of 3.6 on the Richter scale. The earthquake-proofing of houses and other buildings is therefore good to do. Moreover, the 2018 study of the NAM, entitled Production Optimisation, shows that it is possible to minimize the seismic risks by spreading production across the different clusters. My question to the Minister is as follows. What happened to this report? Why has this advice not been followed? Mr. Chairman. The conclusion is simple. The government has failed. Both the Groningers and all the other Dutch people are the victims. The proposal of the Forum for Democracy is to help the Groningen to strengthen the houses and repair the damage as soon as possible. Then we continue on a low and responsible level with gas production from the Groninger gas field, ensuring that the seismic activity is minimized. Moreover, we believe that the Groningen people should be compensated generously. Finally, a large part of the revenues from the Groningen gas field should be for the benefit of the Groningen. But for God's sakes, let's stop the whining, the whining and the political panic football of the past three Cabinets. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u33	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21. It's also his maiden speech. If you wait one more moment, the speaker chair can be cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear rulers and colleagues, here we go. Congratulations to Mr Grinwis and Mr Boucke for their maiden speech. We in JA21 can actually agree with the texts used by the applicant for the debate, Mrs Beckerman. Other colleagues have also asked very correct questions and made good analyses. Of course, we are not without a background in this debate; we have been following it for some time. But in this House of Representatives we are very happy that the NAM has been removed from the gas file. It is quite bizarre that those who are entitled to compensation in the application had to fight against the person who just caused the damage and thus had a direct interest in trivialising and perhaps even questioning that damage. That can not be explained to any Dutchman, nor to the Groningers. The built-in intermediates, the IMG and previously the TCMG for the damage handling and the NCG for the reinforcement organisation, have made that process on paper cleaner and therefore more independent, I think. JA21 is happy about that. But also within that construction, the NAM remains obstructed. This has been mentioned several times, including by Mr Nijboer. The NAM complains about the amount of damages. They complain that the standards for reinforcement would be too strict. They're complaining about the suspicion of evidence in an area too large, and much more. The NAM therefore complains about exactly the same cases that the Groningers rightly complained about against the NAM and the government, which they themselves encountered, for example when reversing the burden of proof. The difference now is that there has been a neutral referee. That's the IMG. This means that we can at least see a better playing field. There are also objections to the charges. As a blow to the head, the NAM did not pay the bill for the reinforcement operation of the third quarter. So that's what we're still dealing with. Several questions have already been asked. Mr. Chairman. Groningen and the Groningers just need to get what they're entitled to. That's the money, the compensation. That reckless attitude of the NAM can no longer be sold, especially when the people in a house full of tears read at the same time that the NAM and its shareholders Shell and Exxon Mobil have already cashed 1.5 billion if that is true as compensation for turning off the gas crane. In the letter, the Minister states in which way the NAM is really annoying. The big question is, of course, what steps are you going to take to deal with this. As far as JA21 is concerned, that is unclear. Would you please confess to that color for the Groningen and not for the NAM and the shareholders? Mr. Chairman. I have a few final questions. What is the Minister's view of the refusal and opposition of the NAM? How does the Minister view the financial consequences of legal proceedings? How are you going to increase the pressure on the NAM to stop training and simply proceed to payment? And finally, what means of pressure are left behind, and when is he going to use them? Finally. I understood that Minister Ollongren has canceled the work visit, but has also put it back in the planning. Is it clear when you're going that way? Perhaps for the Groningen people you can say something about it when they can see you. Thank you very much, and see you next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u35	Thank you for your maiden speech, Mr. Eerdmans. Congratulations and great success in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u36	The directors have indicated that they need about twenty minutes to be able to answer the questions properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u37	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Some of your Members rightly pointed out that the first substantive debate of this new Chamber is about Groningen and that that is right, because it was, is and remains, one of the main themes, also for the outgoing cabinet. Congratulations to the members who made their maiden speech. I really enjoyed that; I hope you have done the same. Next time, you may be interrupted. Then it will only be more beautiful, but congratulations. I also think it's special to have your maiden speech on a subject like Groningen. Mr Boucke said that he was visiting there on Monday and how compelling all these stories are. I myself have been there a number of times and have spoken to people. We're going back on the road together. Those stories come in, but at the same time they are a driving force for us, including me as a outgoing minister, to do everything possible to make life better for the Groningen people. Mr. Chairman. I think new members may have also discovered that Groningen is an extremely complex dossier. In any case, I say to my ministry that, if your Chamber needs it, there is a great willingness to organise technical briefings for your Chamber, perhaps together with the IMG. There are also a number of very experienced spokesmen here who are probably always allowed to contact you to tell you what was going on. It's good to see them here, too. Mr. Chairman. I tried to divide my answers into a few blocks, because most of the questions were kind of on my property. Mrs. Ollongren will do the rest. I would like to talk to you about whether the NAM is at a distance now, then about everything related to damage and damage handling, then about the 1.5 billion that some Members have made comments about, then about the issue of the decline in value and perhaps even more generally about gas extraction: where are we now and how quickly are we going to go to zero? Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries and others, for example, asked about this bill. That actually has with the theme "Does the NAM stand at a distance?" to be made. In general: yes, the NAM is remote. We have done so legally in all ways now. The damage handling and the reinforcement have come into public hands. The damage handling is carried out by the IMG, which is also completely independent. That will come back a few times later, because sometimes the Chamber asks me 'let the IMG do this', but we have all chosen very consciously to give it that independent position. I also know from previous debates that the Chamber respects that position. But the NAM is completely remote. Even when it comes to crunching about accounts she might or might not want to pay, this means that the Groninger doesn't notice. That's exactly what we were supposed to do. The intention is also simply that the NAM pays its accounts. That is in all ways also the commitment of the cabinet, as I also indicated in my letter which I believe was sent yesterday. Also to Mrs Mulder's apologies for having documents sent, just before the debate. In this case, the debate was scheduled for a short time last week, but we just really need to do it better. I'll keep an eye on that too, because it's just a lot and it's important. So I really want to promise you to do so as much as possible. But the NAM is remote and has to pay the bill. As soon as I send it, they'll have to pay for it. They can object or appeal to this, initially at the Ministry. After that, they could go to court, but they must have paid the bill anyway. So far, they have, except for one. He's seeing it on the reinforcements. There they said: Cabinet, you give too little information and support. That is what the Minister of the Interior, who will perhaps say something about this, is talking to them now, but the conclusion can only be that the bill has to be paid. That's the way we agreed. The Chamber asks, "What are you gonna do if they don't?" They can't do it. Then they should take a first step. It is therefore up to the NAM to take a first step, namely to object and appeal to us and, if necessary, to the judge, if she so wishes. They have that right, in their own right, like everyone else in a rule of law. But if they do, then as a government we will pull everything out of the closet to get us right. And anyway, the Groninger isn't gonna notice anything about this stuff. And that's how we agreed and meant it, because that's exactly why we wanted the NAM out of the system. That is, I think, also Mr Boucke's question, which asked very explicitly: how do we ensure that the Groninger does not suffer from this war? Well, that's how we set it up, that's how the legislation was made. So if there's gonna be trouble, I'm gonna have trouble with it, or the government, but not the Groningen. And again, we will pull everything out of the closet to get us right, should the NAM indeed start protesting at the Empire. I think that is actually in the main line how we deal with the accounts at the NAM, which I quite rightly understand were questions from the Chamber after the reports in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u39	Thank you. You stood up at the same time and you pointed to each other, Mrs. Beckerman and Mr. Nijboer. First Mrs. Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually hear the Minister telling a very technical story about how it all works. But can I have some more emotion in it? 'Cause I think it's really outrageous. Tens of thousands of Groningers are waiting. Shell and Exxon, the co-causers, have already received 1.5 billion compensation and are now saying both about the damage and about strengthening: we do not really want to pay it in this way. And then I hear a very technical story from the cabinet. But don't get upset, I'll ask through the chairman. What is your assessment of how these two co-causers of all misery are now expressing themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u41	From the fact that I'm just sending these bills, you can see that I don't care. 'Cause I think they should just pay for this, and that's why I'm sending those bills there. And then I'm glad that I've been secured by a system that we've all agreed on, and that this isn't going to cause the Groningers to suffer, because that's definitely in place number one for all of us. But they're just gonna pay, and they're gonna have to pay for this; that's how we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u42	But that's still not a judgment. And I'd still like to ask a little more from the cabinet. Because it's not just that they refuse to pay an account, they also say things about Groningers who report damages, for example. And those are pretty strong words to hear, when you're in a broken house, and the NAM, Shell and Exxon once again dispute, after all these years, that that was caused by them. Then I would ask the cabinet to withdraw from that, and also to say now that this compensation, which they do get while all those Groningers are still waiting, is really one of the cabinet's options to ensure that Shell and Exxon are hit on that side too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u43	Well, that second one's gonna be another problem in itself. But from the fact that we say that we are pulling everything out of the closet, if they come to trial with us, just to get us right, to collect the money from the Groningen people, within the context that the Groningen people have absolutely no problem with that... Because I also saw some parallels with that expression, and thought: yes, this is, I think, exactly why everyone was so keen to get the NAM out. So that's what we've done now. I'm glad we did that, with everything that's not going well and what's not going fast enough. We're just gonna send those bills. The nice thing is that they still have to pay them, so if they object and appeal to me, they also have to pay that bill in the meantime. And that's the way it should be. And I think everyone with respect about the Groningen people and what happened to them should talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u44	The Minister is clear: he will use legal procedures, if necessary. Now the NAM is losing. And now the NAM has as shareholder Shell and Exxon. What happens when those shareholders brush the record, and they think, "Well, we're gonna sink that shit, or we're gonna sell it to some American private equity party that can afford a lot of expensive lawyers, and then we're gonna get lucky with it?" Is the bill not left with the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u45	No. I think you know more about this than I do, because you have spent a great deal of time discussing the substance of the agreement. There are guarantees in all ways, including the shareholders, that we can simply put the damage and the recovery there and that this will be paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u46	The problem is, I don't trust them for a fucking penny. We had a hearing here in the room with Shell and Exxon. Shell was still trying to save his Dutch image. Exxon was actually just against, both non-verbal and verbal. He didn't really want to do anything. This is just gonna be a loss-making operation. We now know that the costs are much higher than they themselves had estimated. And then they start math. This could take five, ten or fifteen years. I really wonder if the State has sufficient guarantees that the account will eventually go to Shell and Exxon, as shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u47	I am absolutely convinced that we have sufficient guarantees. We'll bet them, too. Well, "betting" isn't the right word for guarantees, but we won't hesitate to honor that agreement on our part. Because that was a very important part of the deal, the agreement on the main lines. That's exactly what we wanted to secure. Mr. Chairman. Then there are questions about damage. During the last legal treatment, which we did in two instalments, we considered a lot about damage and also about the coincidence with strengthening, but especially about foundation damage. As you know, foundation damage is basically just part of the damage recovery. But what we also stumbled upon in that debate is that you see that there is damage, but that the foundation is not so good, and I'm just saying that you'll get that damage over and over again. Isn't that kind of a weird way of working? That's what IMG's been calling attention to. That's what your room called attention to. The House adopted Mrs Mulder's amendment. Then your question is probably: when are we going to see some of that in practice? This can happen as soon as the law enters into force. That is now scheduled for June 1st, July 1st. The IMG is already in the process of making an inventory of how many cases we are talking about. Mr. Chairman. Several members had a question about the reports that the claims for damages are now standing still. I would also like to stress in advance that the IMG is, for very good reasons, a completely independent institution, which makes its own considerations. I can tell you what they saw there and what they did there. The IMG found that in the areas where you and others referred to, where those investigations are now standing still, there was a huge, really striking increase in the number of rejections of damage, based on expert advice reports. Then we said: we really want to investigate that, also because we see differences emerging. What is the basis for this? In the meantime, therefore, we will stop the claims there. I understand that this is extremely annoying for the people involved. They were informed by the IMG by letter. At the end of April, as the IMG says now, they will communicate whether an adjustment in the process is needed. I will, of course, report to you on that. In that context it is important... Sometimes a link seems to be made here in the questions. I understand you're asking if the whole evidence we've been using for Groningen is being thrown down the slope for now. I think Mrs Mulder has said it very strongly: it is not possible at all. It's in the law. If anyone would want to do anything about it, which no one here wants, I think you would be, as a room. You're dealing with that legislation. This legislation has everything and everyone else to do with it. What can play is this. I'm not a lawyer, but suspicion of evidence is a rather unique tool used in Groningen. After a while, the IMG can see how it works out in practice. Are there any crazy differences, for example? That's what they're doing right now. But in no way is that principle violated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u48	When dealing with the reverse burden of proof, it was pointed out throughout the Chamber that it would be important to apply it generously. So if the IMG keeps that under review, I hope that the legislative treatment at that time will be taken up and that it will always be taken up for the benefit of the inhabitants. Can the Minister confirm that here too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u49	Yeah, but I'm gonna put it in the separate roles we have. I really don't know the IMG like: we're here for the residents. I don't know Mr Kortmann as someone who says: I'm gonna go see where I can squeeze it off. On the contrary. It is their right and perhaps even their right to see crazy fluctuations in reports that are rejected, let's take a good look at what's going on. It's also quite complex. It's evidence suspicion, it's damage assessment, and that's not always easy. I am glad that they indicate at least at the end of April that they want to clarify it in order to get back to work. I'm talking to the IMG on a regular basis. I will ask them with all my love to keep me informed of what is happening. And you also know for what reason this came in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u50	Our MPs will then find out that people who have worked in the past in this whole process and were not so generous, are now in positions again, possibly at the IMG, and who actually go old-school and old-style and prefer to reject it. That is what we hear, at least that is what I hear. I'm worried about that. Is that something the Minister would at least like to discuss with the IMG?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u51	Yes, I will. And I think it would also be wise to inform the Chamber as soon as we know more about it at the end of April and we also know the analyses that have been made of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u52	I think the latter is quite right; we just seem to get back into the same situation with the same experts and the same cycle. Residents are being questioned again and damages are being stopped again. And that's exactly what the Groningen have been fighting for years. They say, take us seriously, take our damage seriously, repair them, we're in a broken house. And now the IMG is actually doing the same thing with shutting down the damages. What do you think of the call of the Groningen and North Drenthe region to resume these damages immediately and to assess those damages in favour of the victims, so that there is no inequality in streets, neighbourhoods, neighbourhoods and villages?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u53	This is really up to the IMG, which I think is also in good conversation with that region. This is where we really have to deal with their independent role. The entire designation power has been taken out of the law at all. So it's really up to the IMG and that's what the conversation with the region is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u54	It is up to the IMG, but the Minister can also say with the law in hand: you must abide by what we have agreed on that presumption of proof and also give a strong judgment on the closure of those damages. And as for wanting to do that story about research, I say: doing research could still be fine, but this is something quite different, because you're shutting down damages while the IMG can just decide in favour of the injured.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u55	That decision really lies with the IMG. That's what we deliberately chose to do. They have said: we are seeing a lot of rejections now and are we doing well now? There's no way the evidence is being compromised. I would like to say the same thing here. In any case, they indicated at the end of April how they will proceed with their way of working around this casuism, and I hope that they will take this up again. But we must respect that independence, even if we may not like what is happening. It's also part of independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u56	I took a look in your letter at what it says in relation to the IMG. I've just put together a few words from that long letter: expert panels, advisory committees, integrated programmes, mapping barriers for entrepreneurs, pilots, combination teams, samples, file research, investigations, new investigations, motions from the Chamber to speed up the process or to be more transparent. And in the meantime, we've been years. If you draw up such a letter, or your officials, and you read that letter, don't you think yourself: what exactly are we doing? You're the one responsible, aren't you? You can tell the IMG: but guys, we're just not gonna do this, because this is just taking way too long? If this had happened on the Zuidas or on the Prinsengracht, we would have had Giro555 and benefit concerts. Then the hashtag #PrayForAmsterdam had long been trending. And here, they train and train.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u57	I really don't recognize myself in the image that the IMG is training. I think everyone here will acknowledge that we can be very happy that not as in the past, the NAM does the damage handling, but that the IMG is doing it now. This really makes it much, many, many, many times faster. Mrs Beckerman also said, for example, that there are now 30,000 open at the IMG. Yeah, but it's damage that they all handle on average within six months. That's really, really, an acceleration compared to how that used to be for a lot of people. And of course, every day one is too much when you're in trouble. I get that, too. I've told you a few times now that we've deliberately chosen to distance the IMG. That has been a very conscious, well-considered choice, both from the Cabinet and the Chamber. After all, we want the damage settlement to be completely independent: independent of the NAM and independent of political preferences. So the IMG has its own M.O. But the IMG does have to do with complex things. It's complicated. I'd also like it if it weren't. For example, I would like to touch on Mr Nijboer's question: what about the fall in value for entrepreneurs? But it's not always easy. But there's a lot of hard work at the IMG. There's an incredible amount of damage done. There are also situations where it takes a long time. I'm not running away from any of that. But we really need to maintain that independence. I know the IMG, too. They are not in the vein of: it will take my time, so I'll do an extra exam. No, they are extremely motivated to do the damage repair in Groningen in a very good and responsible way. But it is a legacy from a very long time ago, which they are also confronted with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u58	No one doubts the complexity and no one questions the independence of the IMG. What is being called into question here is that the people of Groningen have been waiting for years for proper compensation, but also for recognition and appreciation. We now have another debate here, and there will probably be many more debates. That's the point. Maybe I'm thinking too simple. That's possible, but according to me, someone should just bang the fist on the table and say, "And now it's fucking over! All right, let's go. Pay out the damage." And as a government, we'll see how any bill or whatever is paid later. You can't treat those people in Groningen like this. It just can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u59	This is exactly why, in particular, my predecessor has done a few huge interventions in how we dealt with Groningen. To begin with, we are going to bring the gas to zero in the very near future, which was unthinkable until a few years ago to prevent us from having earthquakes at all and we are going to take that NAM out completely. 'Cause what took you so long to do all these damage? Because people had to fight with the NAM. It was rightly outlined here by your Chamber, too: so as an honorable citizen, you are faced with a huge company with all kinds of legal expertise. We didn't want that anymore. That's what we wanted the government to do. So that's what we're gonna do. So there have been in recent years... I fully understand your impatience. I agree with you on that, too. Everyone here wants it all solved by tomorrow. But let me remind you that this is precisely why we have taken these huge steps. Are you gonna be okay soon enough if you've been in trouble for years? No, of course not. But it's much faster now. We've got 30,000 reports. That's right, but they're all handled on average in six months. That's incomparable with the way things used to be. If you ask the Groningers what they think of the IMG, it gets a 7.9 as an average rating. That's pretty high for a government executive. So I really think that steps have been taken. Look, things can always go faster, but I share your impatience. And so do the Groningers, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u60	Finally, I would just like to add that I do not want it to be resolved, but the people in Groningen want it to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u61	That's exactly what we're doing. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u62	I do not think anyone doubts that the IMG should do this independently, but the mission is also to do the solution-oriented and in the interest of the Groningers. I think there is some doubt about that here and there. We have also received a motion for a resolution on this subject in this House of Representatives. The question then is: is the IMG only looking at this problem technically? Of course, that has to be resolved. There's no question about that. But it is also about: how could this have happened in that organisation and in those people they employ for this purpose? I believe that, in the end, this is going to be the fundamental problem and also the solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u63	I think the fact that IMG says to take a moment to see what it's like is just a sign that they want to look at it that way too. They just saw a lot of rejections. They were wondering: how is this possible and how is it going in practice? I don't know the IMG as a club that wants to get in the way. They are doing this in all their independence. They have said: at the end of April we are going to find some of this ourselves. In the meantime, they are in the region again in broad conversation. You don't do that if you just want to go ice in one night and do a little rücksichtslos. I can tell you about that in April. You know, in the conversations I have with the IMG, I always report on the debates, as far as they are not watching themselves: these are concerns from the Chamber; would you please take them with you within your complete independence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u64	In the letter sent to us by the Minister, we are going to include this motion on this solution-oriented culture in the various organisations, IMG and NCG, in a discussion or in the general measure of governance that comes about cooperation. But then it's another part of something, while I'd like it to be just high on the agenda with those organizations. I know that we are not talking about this in substance, but I think it is important that both directors should ensure that the directors of these organisations are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u65	Yes. We are constantly stressing this. The starting point must be the Groninger and solving its problems. The starting point should not be the institute. I think we all share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u66	You're at your third block now, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u67	I'm not counting. I've got something to say about damage. I didn't number the cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u68	"Schade" is the second block. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u69	As a result of the Mulder amendment, which has been adopted, Mrs De Vries asked quite specifically: will the NAM pay if we have a solution to this foundation problem in the near future? I'd like to do it in the right order. You asked, are you already talking to the NAM about that? I would first like to see the regulation that the IMG is making, because otherwise the impression could arise that we have been talking to the IMG about this. That's not how we're gonna do it. They make that scheme completely independent, without even the appearance of influence of the NAM. Then I'm gonna have to start the conversation again about how that bill is paid. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the final points. A bit of the suggestion was raised: is the damage treatment not sent for easy damages, so that the figures of quick handling go up nicely? I really don't recognize that. By their nature, simple damage can often be solved faster than others. That is also something that residents are pleased with, because these small damages also cause a lot of inconvenience. That is something we have been working on for a long time. And sometimes there are very complex damages that just take longer. We all don't like that. The average lead time is now six months. IMG's customer satisfaction is high. In doing so, I do not diminish the suffering of people who have to wait longer. But there is absolutely no question that the IMG would send for certain damages, so that I can send a nice report to the Chamber. I don't recognize that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u70	There is an interruption by Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u71	Professor Bröring has literally said: the complicated things take a long time and it is therefore good for productivity and for the figures to deal with the easy damages first; that also helps the image of the IMG. If I understand the Minister correctly, he says: what this professor says is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u72	I don't recognize myself in that. I don't recognize that the IMG is going to select so that we have a nice report. I know that there is hard work there and that minor damage by their nature... by the way, that is not always the case either. A small damage to a monumental building can be much more complex. I do not recognize the image that the damage settlement is being seen from the idea: then we have good news to report to the Chamber. I just don't recognize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u73	But how is it possible that the practice is? I said in my contribution that people have to wait a very long time to deal with, for example, foundation damage. Foundation damage, that's essential. That's basically about the survival of your home, which is practically on the brink of collapse. Can the Minister explain that the practice is that mainly cosmetic damage, which must of course be dealt with, is solved much faster than that fundamental foundation damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u74	Unfortunately, that has to do with the nature of what is actually decided in your question. One damage is simpler than the other and will then be dealt with more quickly. That's very frustrating. I understand exactly the frustration about that. One could argue that there is probably more suffering and uncertainty among the people who have to deal with really serious damage than those who have to deal with small, cosmetic damage. Actually, that's what you're saying. I think we should do and-and. The IMG will send all damages to you as soon as possible. Unfortunately, complex damage will always take a little longer, but I want to have said here that I do not recognize myself in the picture as if due to the reporting figures work in a certain way. Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, that was the block about damage. A number of comments have been made on the coverage that Shell and Exxon would have already received 1.5 billion in compensation. Let me be clear: the agreement on the main themes of 2018 has been discussed very extensively in this Chamber, also with all the consequences that were involved. Those were also the financial consequences. I would also like to take the picture away, but perhaps it was not meant to be that it would be as if we were transferring a bit of annual money to the NAM. That's not true. A different system of payments was chosen in the whole of the agreement. That has been argued in detail, and this has also been given to your Chamber in all openness. This led to estimates at the time that the State would not receive EUR 1.5 billion but EUR 1.3 billion less payments over a period of several years. That was from 2018 to 2023. That was part of the whole deal, which had something else in it. I call it a waiver of a claim on the gas that was left in the ground, guaranteeing damage and repair and putting it into public hands and phasing it out, and a historic decision of the entire gas extraction in Groningen. That was part of the deal. There was also a bit of a suggestion that we would have done sneaky things. I'm really far from that. This has been communicated openly. There has been extra attention in the Millions note, precisely because it was such a major decision. I know that Mr Nijboer has expressed his views on this matter with others, but we have done so in all transparency and in debate with the Chamber. So I'd like to take that suggestion away. Mrs De Vries asked about the practice. It was an estimate at the time. How did that work out? Well, at least it'll be a lot less than that estimate at the time. That's actually for two reasons. The gas price has fallen considerably compared to the moment of that estimate and we have, of course, started to reduce even faster. What we get from gas extraction as a government, you can just see year by year in the Millions Note. The question "what exactly for the NAM is if you would completely convert that in the past few years" is very complex. Then you should go into the operating results of the NAM to see exactly which part is the Groningenveld. I note in any case that yesterday they also brought out that they are suffering a great loss at the moment. So that will in practice be a lot less than the EUR 1.3 billion estimated at the time over five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u75	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u76	I have no interruption, I just have the question whether the Minister will answer my first-term question to make all the contracts and agreements with the NAM, Shell and Exxon public.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u77	Oh, yes, correct. They're all public except for company confidential information. I shouldn't even be allowed to share it with you. I understand you're very curious, but then you'll ask me more than I could possibly do. But whatever we can make public, we will make it public to you. And about the deal on Norg, where we cannot do that for certain aspects, we are always prepared to give confidential briefings, as I believe we did with each other in February. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the issue of a fall in value, which many Members have called attention to. I think Mr Boucke said it nicely in his maiden speech: a house has a financial and economic value, but it must above all be a home. Because of that "being at home" many Groningers have also had a very bad time, because you will also have seen in your work visits that it has a huge impact. If you have damage to your home or, more importantly, if you feel that the house your children are walking around in is not safe, then that's very intense. That is an example I saw recently when I visited, but it is true that it also has a financial and economic component. The IMG compensates for all damage caused by loss of value due to gas extraction in the Groningenveld, as you also know of residents whose house has not yet been sold. In the past, there has been a lot of discussion about this and there is also research about the people who made an appointment with the NAM during the period that this was still with the NAM. My predecessor, Eric Wiebes, said about this: I am going to examine, at the request of your Chamber, whether people who made that arrangement with the NAM have been properly dealt with in that context. That was agreed at the time and the investigation is ongoing. Unfortunately, it takes a little longer than I had hoped, but that investigation will come to you before the summer. On that basis, the Chamber should then talk to me or anyone else here about what you would like to do with it, but that is what was promised then, and that is what is just going on. Mr. Chairman. I can tell a bit that all of this is a very poor implementation of that motion. My defense would be that this is what Eric Wiebes promised. I heard some Members of the House say that they want to move in a different direction, but if they want to, I would point out that this is not so simple. It is also not without consequences, including financial. But at least I keep the promise Eric Wiebes made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u78	I'll fight that a little bit anyway. In fact, as a Chamber, we said that it is not really possible to explain that some people receive a much higher amount than those who, a few years ago, were able to do so after many fives and sixs and after endless procedures. We actually thought that this should be the same and the minister's predecessor said: I understand that you think it is unfair. In fact, he said: I also think it is unfair, but it is only legally difficult to solve. That's different from the questions in the letter. The question would then be: we want it to be levelled and how can it be resolved legally? That's what I expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u79	In my reading of the past, Wiebes was clear about exactly what he was going to investigate. We have implemented this, and I think he understands quite well, as I do, that there is a sense of injustice among those people. But I am carrying out what was promised at that time by my predecessor in office, and at least I want that report in the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u80	I have a problem with that. That great injustice was widely experienced. It was not so that there was a party that said: I actually think I can explain that the neighbors now get €10,000 in one go, while the other neighbors have suitable for €1,500. We have left the Minister the room to justify that legally, and now suddenly... I believe that there is a set of lawyers who can reason crookedly what is right or can reason right which is crooked. I am sure there will be, and it may well be that the fork is so civilized, but we are not looking for that. We're looking for a just solution for Groningers, and you can't really explain this to anyone, you know. People who have suitable were sometimes given €2,000, while they would have received €20,000 if they had waited and given up those endless procedures. I'm not gonna explain it to them!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u81	Again, I am doing what was promised at the time by Wiebes. That investigation is headed your way for the summer. I can imagine that you will find all sorts of things and we will have to discuss that with each other at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u82	I'm kind of struggling with this. I find the interpretation given by the Minister in the letter very narrow. Any lawyer can conclude: you have granted final discharge, because you have signed and then the file is closed. I do not think that was the intention of what was promised and what was asked by the House of Representatives. I would therefore like to ask the Minister the following. I understand that this investigation is now under way, but I would consider it important that we also make the comparison with the IMG scheme. I can also see all the legal problems, precedents and all that sort of thing, but it has been said that it would be looked at. Are there any solutions at all for the moment you come to the conclusion that it is not just?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u83	I understand the question of justice, because of course it feels very unjust. You are right to say: it will be very complicated to go that way, to lift that. That would be legal, Mr Nijboer said that as well, and you gave examples of this would be very complicated. I can easily imagine that there will be a lot of implementation aspects and that there will be precedents. I am not saying all this because I do not want to do justice to the emotion, but that is certainly not how this investigation was designed. It will also have considerable budgetary consequences, I think, which could also be a complicated issue for a outgoing cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u84	But I'm not there yet. It is now a question of what information we would like to have. I don't think the problem is what we can't do. It's about how one can solve a problem when it's found that it's at least ill-explainable and not just. I just want to know if it's gonna be done right. Is it fair and explainable what is happening, or is it not? We really need more information on this than what's going to come out of this investigation. The question is whether this could be supplemented by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u85	I'm quite willing to see what more information we can put together for your room. They're tricky questions. Justice and explainability are things you feel. In the end, it is a political balance. But if you say that you do not have enough on your own with this investigation, which must be part of it, then I would like to think about how I can inform you more, so that you can weigh it up. I want to think about that, but I don't know exactly how to do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u86	A supplementary question from Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u87	Anyway, thank you for that. Nor am I concerned that it would give a ten or a thousand euros at €20,000. But in the examples we have received, the differences were really huge. I want to understand what's happening and I want to be able to explain it to people. I can't right now, and that's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u88	The Minister comes back to the effect of the information question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u90	At this point. I would like to support both colleagues who were just on the interrupting microphone. From Groningen we hear that I also notice in my conversations with our residents there that it is not at all the case that residents want someone to have an arrangement. That's not how these people are in there at all. That's not how I recognize it at all. You can see that sometimes there is a $30,000 difference. That's just too big. If we let that simmer in our society, in Groningen, and don't do anything about it, we're gonna be just too dumb out of ourselves. I believe that we should take responsibility for this and that we should be just. A motion for a resolution was adopted just before the elections. I've been asking questions about that. Mrs Beckerman then tabled that motion. That is why we turned in all these cases to Minister Wiebes, who could also feel from his tea water that it was not right as it was. I hope that one day we can jump over the legal gap and we can say that it is exceptional what is happening in Groningen, so I am not talking about precedent for the rest of the Netherlands, just to copy it one-on-one, but that we are just going to do them justice. I hope we get this far together. Perhaps scenarios are needed to show how much financial consequences that has, but let us put the question on the table and let us answer it honestly. If it is up to us as a society that we want to compensate the Groningers, because we believe that that right should be done here and that that is not a precedent for the rest of the Netherlands, for anything that can happen, then we must be able to talk about it honestly in this house. That is what I am asking of this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u91	If I understand the Chamber that way, and my fine political feeling tells me that a motion could be tabled on this at some point, I would like to do my best to be of service by providing as much factual information as possible on the basis of which you can make any considerations at some point. I am doing expectations management here: I suspect that these are rather major decisions that I am not going to take just for a moment, especially not with my status as outgoing minister, with all due respect for the feeling of injustice, because I totally understand that. But let's do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u92	I'm gonna file a motion for security in the second term anyway. But I also think it is important that we take steps together now. Because there has just been another two months of delay and that is also something that is involved, even in our feeling here in the Chamber. So thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u93	Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u94	I heard you right. We'll face the motion. Then Mr Nijboer asked about the decline in value for SMEs and research. Does it have to be another year and a half? It might be good to put a little nuance on this. The IMG is already starting on an individual basis. These include, in particular, buildings that have already been sold, as it is easier to identify the decline in value. But, of course, you would prefer to speed it up much more, by also offering the incumbent SMEs that value reduction scheme. For that, they have an advisory committee. I find it annoying to say, but it is really very complex to establish this at an SME property; that is really different from a private home. You want to do it carefully and honestly. In the meantime, IMG continues with all the other work and all other claims. In the case of housing, the study of the whole method also took one and a half years. So, well, better than this, I can't make it. However, I am pleased that in the meantime they are starting on an individual basis at least with a number of SME entrepreneurs. That's what I was talking about, Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to say a few things about the extraction of gas. Mrs De Vries asked, among other things, about the agreement on Norg. You know we need Norg to accelerate the extraction of gas in Groningen. So I'm glad we've taken care of it now. It was so that in order to reach the exact level of compensation, we eventually needed arbitration, also because the two parties were very far apart in what they thought was fair and reasonable. We have, fortunately, been advised by our best lawyers, too, by very good lawyers, on the best route that the government can achieve with the best financial results. That has become the trajectory that we have now used with arbitration. I have informed your Chamber confidentially of the precise details, as you know. But let's also look at what is pleasant about this Norgdeal, namely that it is a huge step to do the acceleration in the gas dismantling in Groningen, which all those Groningers are hungry for. Mr. Chairman. Then there were also a few questions about how that goes with the entire phasing-out path. This means that we are well on track, even with the large consumers. A number of companies are somewhat delayed, but if you look at the number paths we need, that doesn't mean that we should continue in Groningen any longer at the moment. We're on it. In addition, we also have all the other sections you mentioned, such as the construction of a nitrogen factory and the reduction of exports. That's going very well. I like what you said: a warm word of thanks to the foreign viewers for this debate. Because that too is a crucial factor. We're really on track right now, so I'm optimistic about that. So now it really seems that from next year onwards we are moving to a situation where the Groninger gas field is only a reserve for very exceptional situations, if we have a very extreme winter or if there is a huge outburst somewhere. Meanwhile, I also do my best to shorten the period we call the watchflame as much as possible, so that we can just close the whole field as soon as possible. I feel supported by almost the entire Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga asked what the reserve is that stays in the ground with what we all intend to do now. That would be about 500 billion m. Of course, that also depends on what is going to be pulled out until we stop. You ask: what remains of our energy supply as the gas tap closes faster? Security of supply is a very important factor in everything we do. At Groningen of course played a bit more. What a mess there has been in that area. I therefore think it is absolutely right that my predecessor, Mr O'Brien, did not know who referred to it again, on top of what was in the coalition agreement, said: boys, I am quite finished with it; we are just going to turn that gas crane off in Groningen, because that will at least prevent the misery from taking longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u95	It is good that you bring up your predecessor, because in 2012 your predecessor Henk Kamp greatly increased the production. That's why so much seismic activity has arisen. Of course it's a bit strange to say "compliments to my predecessor that we're going to stop," because the reason we're going to quit is precisely that that production has been unjustly made so high. If we had stayed at a low level of depletion, this whole problem probably wouldn't have arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u96	I feel really driven that we are simply shutting down the gas tap in Groningen. Fortunately, I am also supported by a very broad majority in this House of Representatives. I think that we are doing justice to what happened in Groningen and preventing further earthquakes from taking place there. Things like water injection and nitrogen injection have been looked at, which you also asked about. The conclusions were that this is likely to lead to more earthquake activity rather than less. At the moment they are looking at that again. But we're just gonna take down Groningen. I thought that was a good decision and no fiber in my body is thinking of reversing that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u97	A majority of the Chamber may be able to support you in that, but it is of course strange that we leave 500 billion cubs in the ground and that you compliment your predecessor, while we have not done justice to all those Groningers by increasing that production to a gigantic level, creating that seismic activity, and then we are not going to compensate those Groningers for all the misery. And then we pretend we're doing something good here. We're both cheating on the Dutch and we tricked the Groningers. At least this would be a good time to apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u98	If you want to cheat the Groningers in one way, that is if we come back now to the decision to shut down the gas tap. I'm not gonna explain that in Groningen, and I'm not gonna.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u99	Finally. I think it would be very good to continue production at a low level, to get the Groningers to share it and to hurry up with all the compensatory measures that would come and strengthen the houses, because that has just not happened in the past ten or twenty years. It's really ludicrous what's happening here. We're gonna leave that 500 billion cub in the ground and we're gonna let the Groningers sit and we're screwing with the Dutch. Anyway, the decision has been made. The Forum for Democracy is apparently the only party that thinks so, but it remains a farce.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u100	I would like to invite Mr Van Haga to take a number of real visits to Groningen and the Groningen people and ask them how they look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u101	This is a bit of a killer. I know exactly what's going on there and I also know exactly what's going on with the NAM. I drilled there myself. I think there is a little lack of knowledge here, apparently to meet the Groningen and apparently to meet the Dutch. Anyway, it's still the same story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u102	I didn't hear a question in there. The Minister's rounding off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u103	We don't agree. We can do that, and we can do that in a democracy. Locking up. We're going back to Groningen next week. I think that's another Wednesday, but otherwise we're just gonna move it again. I do that... "Like" isn't even the right word. I think it's important to do it. We are also talking to people from Mrs Beckerman's black book. That will undoubtedly be very intrusive conversations again. You always want to solve everything for those people on the spot. I'm afraid I can't promise that. What I can promise is that together with Mr Ollongren, however long we are outgoing, Groningen will not care about a missionary status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u104	Thank you. I thank the Minister for Economic Affairs. We will take into account Wednesday's agenda. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment. Oh, look, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u105	I don't think the Minister answered one of my questions. I spoke in my term of office about the mistrust that has made way for leave in many of the victims. Does the Minister have any idea how many people who have been killed have lost their courage and, as a result, do not even report their damage? How many people and reports are we talking about? What is the Minister going to do to ensure that those people get what they are simply entitled to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u106	I'm gonna see if I can say a little more about that in the second term. The tricky thing is, of course, a little bit that "you know who doesn't report" is always a very complicated question. Let me at least make the call to everyone here: just please report, because we really want to help you. Of course, you don't know what you don't know; you understand that. In general, I do recognize, even in people who do apply, what this does to you and that sometimes it becomes almost a kind of leaveliness. You get it, too. I talked to someone the other day who said, "I'm only allowed to talk about earthquakes at home one day a week, because we're going crazy." I said, "I get it, too. I'd hate it, too."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u107	I understand that, of course. You don't know what you don't know. Yes, of course it is. But imagine that people have to fight for years, years, simply to get their rights right. They didn't get that, and then they got into a fight. They've given up the fight. But that does not, of course, affect the right they do have and should be given. Can the Minister come back to how proactively it is going to be investigated that also those people should be able to get what they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u108	Let me see what I can tell you about this in the second term. In any case, I agree with you that it should be our aim to keep our business in order. It hasn't been for years, and it's not always been for years, but that shouldn't lead people to think "forget it." I agree with you. We're all doing this because the Groningen people have been wronged a lot. We just want to make that right. That's my endeavor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u109	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment, because we have a small changement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u110	The Minister is ready. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by congratulating the new Members who have just made their maiden speech: Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union, Mr Boucke of D66 and Mr Eerdmans of JA21. I would also like to join Mrs Beckerman, who said: this is actually the first substantive debate of this new House of Representatives; it is about Groningen and there is a signal of that. I understand that, and I think it is also a good thing that the Chamber is sending that signal. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the reinforcement operation. That's my responsibility. We stand at the bar together, as my colleague Van 't Wout just said. There are a number of Members who are concerned about the subject for the first time. And, indeed, I fully agree with what my colleague said: Groningen is a top priority for this cabinet, whether it is a missionary or not. We are concerned with doing justice to the people who have been victims of the earthquakes. Things have happened over the past few years. We've just been talking about stopping the gas extraction. There has been talk of distanceing the organization that deals with damage. We also have the NCG, which since 1 January 2020 has taken over the responsibility of the NAM, i.e. of the CVW, at the time. We have done a lot to try to put the reinforcement operation on track and to speed it up, and in particular to put the residents at the heart of it. That was actually the debate between the Cabinet and the Chamber. At that point, we were always in agreement. That resident must be at the heart of the matter and we must do so from the recognition that the Groningen people are entitled to. The state of affairs and progress and also what is not going well is, of course, visible. It's visible when you go there. Mr Boucke called on us to do so regularly. We are. That's right. I had a work visit scheduled today. I couldn't. It seemed like a safe schedule, but it didn't turn out to be. That had something to do with the corona debate, which I actually expected today but which will be held tomorrow. So we need to plan that better, but we're planning it again as soon as possible. Mr Van 't Wout has already said that, following the appeal of the Chamber, we are also going to have a conversation with the injured. Mrs Beckerman has offered the black book to the cabinet. We're gonna have that conversation with the Prime Minister in Groningen. We're going to do that in the very short term. Mrs Beckerman also gave a number of examples today, perhaps from the black book, of people and their distressing situations. It is really very important to go there regularly and to be in conversation with the residents, with the people themselves. And, of course, with the organisations involved in the implementation of this reinforcement. I also find it incredibly important to keep all the agreements, even if you announce something. You have to make sure that people get the information the moment we say they get information and so on. We did not have the debate on strengthening the Law very long ago, but indeed with the previous House of Representatives. That was March 4th. A week later, it was also adopted by the Chamber. The law will soon be dealt with in the First Chamber. Those are important steps, especially since today it's a lot about the NAM's law that is an important step to get the NAM out of the system. At that time, we discussed this very extensively with each other. You have received a letter from EZK's colleague, also on my behalf, on the last steps taken in placing the NAM at a distance. I would also like to stress that decisions on the implementation and strengthening of the houses in Groningen are not affected or hindered by such discussions. Those discussions may be there, of course, but that reinforcement operation has to go on. It is carried out publicly and is initially simply paid for by the Empire in order to guarantee that performance. So we'll pay for that, but we'll charge the NAM for the security. That's the deal we made. Of course, we also have conversations with the NAM. Should that happen again leading to legal proceedings, which you can never rule out, then it is the government, we, against the NAM in a legal procedure, and not the residents. I think that is very important to stress. If there has been some uncertainty about this in the region, also as a result of publications there, then I really want to remove it. The article in Dagblad van het Noord of 7 April suggested that the resources available for the reinforcement operation would be limited, that there would be insufficient in total and that the municipalities would have to fight for these resources among themselves. It really isn't. There is no question that the funds for municipalities to strengthen housing are fixed. What is necessary for safety, we charge to the NAM. An estimate has been made of the total cost of the reinforcement. This estimate is that it will cost a total of EUR 5 billion. As you can see in the letter on this matter at the end of March, an estimate has been made on the basis of assumptions which could in practice be higher or lower. So there's no deal, there's no ceiling. Leading is that all unsafe houses will be brought to standard. All Groningers should be able to rely on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u112	The Minister refers to an article from Dagblad van het Noord of 7 April. I would like to read out a small quote from Mr Van der Schaaf, alderman in the city. "Money is really an important topic in the discussion with the NCG. The budgets are fixed in The Hague, but we have the red tape. We need more resources. The bureaucracy works so slowly that it slows down the reinforcement." Is the Minister saying that Mr Van der Schaaf is saying something wrong here or that it is not true?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u113	No, definitely not. I think he meant that there were discussions about the implementation practice. There are talks between the Empire and the region. There are talks with the region and the performers, which is my case so much about the reinforcement, for example with the NCG. That makes sense, but you know the administrative arrangements we have made. We'll stick to that. That's what we're gonna hold the region to. The opposite is also true, of course. I can imagine that you sometimes... Well, despite everything you have to go through a joint journey. We have said: we place the resident at the center. The NCG is the performer, but the resident can also make certain choices. We discussed this in detail last time. And the region, especially of course the municipality, has a role to play in this, especially when it comes to choosing clusters. In this sense, there is always consultation, but I think that we have made good agreements in the basics. You always want to go straight ahead to strengthening agreements, but sometimes it is part of the process that governments and authorities still consult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u114	Your last interruption, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u115	26,000 homes were on the list of unsafe homes. Five years ago it started and now only 7% has been done. 7% is only done. And the quote I read, according to the Minister, is correct. So it is true that, despite the agreements made, there is once again a delay due to the huge bureaucracy. It's technically possible, but I was just talking about a boy of almost five who's never lived in a real house before. It's not about those parents' choices. They've already made their choice: they want back what they had. Can the Minister at least indicate that she will put an end to this bureaucracy as quickly as possible, as Mr Van der Schaaf calls it, which is slowing down again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u116	I do not read Mr Van der Schaaf's words that way. I read his words in such a way that he notes that sometimes there are still bureaucratic discussions to be held between the parties in the implementation process. 'Cause I totally agree with Mrs. Beckerman. In my opinion, that is the whole process we have agreed on, including the law, the distance of the NAM and the taking over of all the files by the NCG of the CVW. This is aimed at putting residents at the centre and ensuring that they do not suffer from authorities and bureaucracy. The reason I have just quoted that article is that that article suggests that there would be insufficient resources for the municipalities involved in strengthening and that the effect would be that there would be less left for one municipality if the other would spend more. That's not true. It's about batch 1588, among other things. Those who have been doing this for a long time know the jargon. That is a batch that we have already made specific agreements on in order to ensure that these houses could be strengthened as soon as possible. The article states that the resources for that batch would not be sufficient for all the municipalities listed. But the municipalities listed in the article are partly not involved at all in 1588, because these houses are not located in those municipalities. They're not in Het Hogeland and Oldambt. I think two things have got mixed up in that article: batch 1588, which looks at a specific number of houses in a specific area, as well as the more general administrative arrangements that we made with the region at the end of last year and which we are now working on. That goes according to the blocks A, B and C. I hate to talk in jargon, but I know the spokesmen know exactly what I'm talking about. We've made agreements about the costs. When it comes to safety, all costs are charged to the NAM. Mrs Beckerman was just talking about the progress of the reinforcement operation. You are aware of the objective. The goal of the NCG for this year is to perform 4,000 recordings, 4,000 reviews and 1,500 reinforcements. The NCG's rough forecasts are now in place. Of course, we're going to start with the typology approach. We still have to be able to weigh them. Then we will be able to adopt the multiannual reinforcement plan. This will give more insight into the further development of the whole reinforcement operation, including at project level and in terms of multiannual planning. I said that last time in the debate. As soon as the municipalities have adopted the multiannual reinforcement plan, I will inform the Chamber. Then you'll have more insight into the duration of the reinforcement operation. In addition to what my colleague has already said, I would also like to comment briefly on the costs of the gas extraction file and the costs of the NAM in relation to the reinforcement. You received the letter of March 31st. I told you, we'll charge the costs to the NAM afterwards. We are having a discussion with the NAM about an invoice for the third quarter of 2020. The NAM has indicated that the first and second quarters will be paid, subject to a certain reservation. In the third quarter, they commented on the safety standard and the application of that safety standard. According to the NAM, it's too conservative. The NAM also states that the costs of the reinforcement operation can only be charged to the NAM if they are based on the most recent insights. There were also a number of comments from the auditors on the information and accountability. We are always in full conversation with the NAM. We will always ensure that the costs that can be charged are also charged and that they are also paid. The Chamber has been regularly informed of this. We have not yet reached a result. That's also the latest information the Chamber has had. I have just said that we cannot completely rule out the possibility that it will result in legal proceedings. But again, that's between the State and the NAM. The residents will not be affected by this. Mr. Chairman. There were a few more questions for me. There weren't many of them this time. Mrs Beckerman asked about the inequality between neighbourhoods. That's the category B in the administrative arrangements we made. We want clusters and customization to prevent inequality between streets, neighborhoods and villages. We've talked about that a lot. The owners in category B are in principle eligible for a concession of €30,000. Of course, the municipalities have an important role to play in this. They will also work out the customization in category B in the coming period. The owners have been informed. The aim of the municipalities is that before 1 July they can give the owners even more clarity about the choice between a concession or customization. That is the latest state of affairs, as it has been shared with the residents. Mrs Mulder asked what the cabinet is doing to reduce the use of natural gas in the built environment. One of the most important things that happened at the beginning of this cabinet period is that, at the request of the Chamber, it was decided not to use natural gas in new buildings. So we have chosen to build natural gas-free. Of course, we have the climate agreement. In it it was agreed that the municipalities all make a Transition Vision of Heat, indicating how they depart and how quickly they depart, but at least before 2030, from the natural gas. This approach is also supported by the Empire. Insulation of homes is an important step or intermediate step; this is also stated in the Climate Agreement. All this, of course, leads to substantially less use of natural gas. Long-term funds are also available: 100 million per year in the ISDE, which generally promotes sustainability. This concerns insulation but also hybrid heat pumps, for example. I believe that Mrs Mulder referred to this as well. Mr Grinwis drew attention to the mental problems of residents. His predecessor, Mrs Dik-Faber, consistently drew attention to this. That's perfectly right. I think it is very good that we always realize that Groninger's mental health is also affected by this. That is why we have also made additional funds available several times by providing grants from the ministries of EZK and VWS. We have also invested in social-emotional support, organised from municipalities. This presupposes that municipalities then make the choice how they want to do it. In the end, this has become part of the administrative arrangements. Then we said that we are making EUR 10 million available for this social and emotional support. By making that money available, I think we are doing what we can, but I agree with Mr Grinwis: we must always pay attention to this. Mr. Chairman. I think I have run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u117	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's right. Since there is no need for a short suspension, I propose that Mrs Beckerman be given the floor immediately. I call Mrs Beckerman of the SP for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u118	Mr. Chairman. Because that time limit is only short, I will start immediately with the motions, because it is true: not words but deeds. That is what the Groningers are waiting for and hence our alternatives. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the strengthening of unsafe housing in Groningen started in 2015;]] [[Considering that in 2021 only 7% of homes on the list of buildings to be reinforced have actually been addressed;]] [[noting that municipalities now have too little money to implement the reinforcement;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that there are sufficient resources and to present to the Chamber a comprehensive plan containing all municipal reinforcement plans with annual objectives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Kops, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-851]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u119	Normally you could breathe if you asked if the submission was supported, so I'll take a breath now before I file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the IMG has stopped the handling of approximately 1,500 damages;]] [[noting that the regions of Groningen and North Drenthe have called for these damage to be dealt with again;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the IMG to deal with these damages and to assess them to the benefit of the injured parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Kops, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-852]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u120	Third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a record of more than 30,000 damage is currently available;]] [[noting that the regions of Groningen and North Drenthe conclude that residents still face long waiting times, uncertainty, complex assessments and a legal rather than a human approach;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the IMG in order not to interfere with the presumption of evidence, to come up with a plan to quickly and fairly assess outstanding damages and to arrive at a proper and equitable approach to complex damage and foundation damage, and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Kops, Mr Grinwis, Mr Boucke, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-853]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u121	I don't have enough time for my final motion, unfortunately. Or is it okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u122	Do the spokesmen agree that another motion is being tabled? Everyone nods yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u123	That's nice! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas NAM, Shell and Exxon contributed to the disaster in Groningen;]] [[noting that Shell and Exxon have already received at least 1.5 billion compensation for reducing gas extraction;]] [[calls on the Government to make all agreements public and to use all possible (including legal and fiscal) means to allow NAM, Shell and Exxon to pay their fair share and to ensure that the injured are not in any way prejudiced by these companies and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-854]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u125	Then I give the floor to Mrs Mulder of the CDA. We wait for a short moment, so that the chair can be cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u126	Mr. Chairman. I already announced it, so let's start with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the owners are wondering whether the NAM has provided sufficient compensation for the decline in the value of their housing;]] [[whereas there is a difference between what NAM reimbursed and what the IMG is now distributing;]] [[noting that the investigation carried out by Finance Ideas is delayed;]] [[Considering that the Chamber the Beckerman motion c.s. adopted a resolution calling on the Demissionary Cabinet to draw up a plan of action to ensure that everyone is compensated fairly in the end;]] [[calls on the Government to take all possible steps to establish a settlement, which will enable the above-mentioned motion to be implemented as quickly as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Boucke.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-855]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u127	Thank you to both directors for the answer. I notice the way they answered today that they really want those changes for Groningen. I hope that will be a good first step by the Chamber in this new composition. That is the hope I am expressing here today. I had already indicated that a letter had come our way yesterday. There's one more ambiguity in that letter for me. On page 4 there is talk of my motion in part No. 55 (35603) on the implementation consequences of the bill and the proposal of the Groninger Gasberaad on an alternative approach. They're getting involved in this. "Here" then refers to an AMvB. But I think we had agreed in the legal process that it would simply come loose to the House of Representatives, so that we would deal with it in complete openness here. I'd like to get that confirmation on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u128	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. I shall then give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union, who I think has a motion as well. He's got three, look at that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the directors for their reply. There indeed the drive spoke out to really solve it for the Groningers during this period. I brought you a few more motions after all. The first is about mental care, which Minister Ollongren was the last to talk about. It goes like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in addition to physical and intangible damage, the Groningers also suffer major social and emotional damage due to earthquake problems;]] [[Whereas previously pledged amounts are not sufficient to sustain the need for accessible, accessible mental care in Groningen and that Spiritual Care Earthquake area Groningen indicates that it needs €550,000 per year in order to best shape spiritual care;]] [[calls on the Government to resume consultations with municipalities, municipal health services and GVA Groningen with a view to making sufficient funds available for all forms of mental care in the earthquake area over a long period of time and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis, Mr Beckerman and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-856]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u130	Okay. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that since the second half of 2020 the IMG has rejected 10% to 15% more claims for damages than before;]] [[Whereas the majority of the claims are settled fairly well until serious damages and amounts are involved;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate as soon as possible whether the current application of the legal evidence suggests sufficient outcome for severely injured persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-857]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u131	I shall now file the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the IMG indicates that the panel opinion on which the legal presumption of evidence is based does not provide sufficient concrete tools to apply the presumption of evidence in a clear way;]] [[Considering that since the second half of 2020, the IMG has rejected 10% to 15% more claims for damages than before;]] [[calls on the Government to communicate to the IMG how the legal presumption of evidence is intended,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-858]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u132	So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u133	I shall then give the floor to Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Ministers for their reply. I do get the feeling that they want to get the best of it when it comes to getting the money from the NAM. As far as I am concerned, support for this. I actually think this applies to the entire Chamber. I still think it is important to say that the Groningen people, regardless of all the legal and crazy stuff, should never suffer. Because that impression may well emerge from this debate. I think it's important to take that road. Then there's the depreciation. I welcome the promise that Minister will see how additional information can be provided. I would say: let's not look with the look of cold, legal people, but with an open look. So let's look at what we can do instead of what we can't do. I think that's very important in this file anyway. A lot of hassle in Groningen stems from the non-solution-oriented view from the residents. I think there's a lot to be said about that. I think it is very important that we should work on this in the near future with the two organisations IMG and NCG involved. That must also be done with a generous look. I hope that it will be really good between the two organisations and that the ministers will also contribute to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u135	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say that there is a great deal of controversy between the Chamber and the Cabinet about the depreciation regulation. We've talked about that a lot. If it's all sorted out legally-technically, we'll end up in the ditch. Mrs Mulder has tabled a motion on this, which I will support. We're not gonna be okay on this road. Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that SMEs have been waiting years for deliverance from the earthquake disaster;]] [[Whereas the government intends to devote another year and a half to research and development in order to compensate for the fall in value for entrepreneurs;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to prepare the depreciation scheme for entrepreneurs and to pay the first amounts for this calendar year, i.e. in 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-859]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u137	Mr. Chairman. Then I have another motion, which is meant to keep the NAM a little focused. We've already taken a motion from my hand to prepare a levy. I think it will be necessary in the future. This motion looks more like guarantees. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the NAM is liable for damage caused by gas extraction;]] [[Whereas the NAM has made a loss last year;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the shareholders of the NAM guarantee that the NAM can continue to fulfil its obligations, even if the NAM is in severe financial situation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-860]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u138	Mr. Chairman. I am aware that the Minister said: everything will be all right. But if big, private Anglo-Saxon companies see a chance to get out of their obligations, then they don't shy away from a cure. We can see that already. The Chamber is unanimously displeased. That's what we're gonna see in the future, I'm afraid, even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u139	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV. A compliment to the messengers that they're all doing it so fast. I can see it up close now; it's really fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u140	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to identify how many earthquake victims refrain from reporting damage because they no longer have confidence in handling;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that these victims are also given what they are entitled to,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-861]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u141	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of EZK promised that 2019 would be the year of implementation, but that this has not been achieved;]] [[noting that 2020 has not become the year of implementation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that 2021 becomes the year of implementation and that all the injured parties are fully compensated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kops and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-862]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u143	I shall now give the floor to Mr Boucke of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What has kept me from this debate is that everyone wants the best for the Groninger. I think it is important to stress that we should do this in a generous way, especially with regard to rapid implementation, also with a view to the future. There is one point that I would like to highlight for a moment, namely the value of housing, which we must protect. That is why I tabled a motion with my colleague Agnes Mulder. I would like to draw particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises in the second term. I would like to urge the ministers not to forget that. Groningen has many entrepreneurs, who often have their homes in or next to the company. It is important that they, too, are sure of proper damage handling and reinforcement. The value of this must also be protected. So I would like to hear from the ministers how they are going to do that for SMEs. I also say that we must learn from the past. Let's do this faster than the houses. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the many debates in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u145	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u146	Mr. Chairman. It is a pity that we have made decisions in recent years mainly on the basis of emotions and not on the basis of a thorough technical basis. That's why I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that due to the seismic activity it has been decided to stop the gas production of the Groninger gas field;]] [[whereas this is a sub-optimal option for both the Netherlands and the Groningers;]] [[calls on the Government not to close the Groningen gas field but to continue to produce in a responsible manner, with the safety and generous compensation of the Groningen miners in the mining area at the forefront,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-863]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u147	Mr Van Haga notes that everything has happened in recent years and that all this has been wrong. But where was he all these years? I thought he was sitting here in the benches. Then what did he do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u148	That's a nice question. When I was an honorable member of the VVD, I expressed my displeasure about this within the group of the VVD. At that time, there was 800 billion cube in the ground. That was a much bigger financial debacle. I think that if we had intervened at that time and had gone to a lower production level and met the Groningers with generous compensation, with a huge strengthening operation, with a project management that a government would not have been wrong, we would not have gotten into this situation at all. As a single person, I did not participate in these debates. I believe that I have participated in one debate where I have raised this issue. But that is without prejudice to the fact that I've spent my entire life working on energy and drilling for oil and gas. I am standing here as a Member of Parliament for the Forum for Democracy and I think it is a good thing that I can make this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u149	Thank you, Mrs Mulder, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u150	Yeah, it's got something easy, though. That kind of bothers me a little bit. I guess I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u151	It doesn't seem easy to me at all. In your case, it seems much easier to leave 500 billion kuub in the ground and to be co-responsible for the fact that the Groningen people are now in a huge debacle and have suffered a huge misery, while the whole of the Netherlands misses 500 billion kuub in a kind of attempt to emotionally correct something. You didn't have to do that. Anyway, the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that due to the seismic activity it has been decided to stop the gas production of the Groninger gas field;]] [[Whereas it is strategically justified not to break down the installations but to maintain them;]] [[calls on the Government to pursue at least a monitoring flame scenario in which sufficient gas is produced to maintain the facilities and infrastructure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3529-864]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u152	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the rulers for the answers and I would like to thank the colleagues. I found the debate interesting and useful. I think there is a good deal of pressure on this issue, a difficult issue that many people care about, and rightly so. I think that you are well aware of that and that the motions may be able to reinforce that. JA21 is going to watch the motions well and then we will decide our vote on Tuesday. Thank you very much for your attention and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u153	Thank you. I think it's an exciting ending. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to give the motions an appreciation and to answer some questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u154	I will reopen the sitting and give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two further questions from the second term and one more from Mr Kops' first term. I think that, if that's okay with you, it's good to get back to that in relation to his motion. Mr Nijboer explicitly asked for attention to be paid to SMEs in the broad area of Groningen. We are very motivated to do so. He knows that as a result of his motion, we are working on a plan of action. We are doing this together with the region and that starts with identifying the problems that are specific there. These talks with the province are ongoing and 11 million euros have been reserved from the budget for the administrative arrangements. The property damage regime is expected to be in place within four weeks. Mr Nijboer has tabled a motion on the depreciation scheme, but it was announced on 7 April. We'll start by running it, but maybe not at the rate he'd want. So SMEs are certainly not overlooked. In fact, they have great priority for us. Then I'll get to the motions. I only have the numbers that indicate the order they entered, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u156	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u157	If anyone in the Chamber thinks, "Why do you skip a number?', Then that motion is on Mrs. Ollongren's pile if it's all right. I'll start with the second motion. This motion in part No. 852 by Mrs Beckerman asks me to talk to the IMG, to deal with the damage and to assess for the benefit of the injured. That's really complicated! If I am going to do that, I am really gonna torment the independence of the IMG, because that's what I'm gonna tell them how to decide. For that reason, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u158	The motion in part No. 852 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u159	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 853 also asks for a conversation and not to interfere with the suspicion of evidence. I can just say that, because that's the law. I will explain the law anytime and anywhere, especially on this important point. So I can give this motion a ruling Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u160	The motion in part No. 853 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u161	The motion in part No. 854 says, "I want everything public" and "take advantage of all possibilities." That is in line with what I have written to you, with what I have said today and with what I will continue to do. For two reasons, I would like to make a very small reservation on what you say about the fiscal instruments. Firstly, the Nijboer motion is under way and secondly, it is not something I am right about. But by the way, it is clear that we are using all the legal means to ensure that they pay what they have to pay and to ensure that the Groningers do not suffer in any way. That way I can give him judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u162	The motion in part No. 854 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u163	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 855 of CDA and D66 on the study of the depreciation scheme. If I may read this motion in such a way that I can tell the Chamber what the legal, implementing and financial consequences are of a possible solution to the difference between these two regulations and what is possible there, then that is in line with what I said in the first term. I can prepare something for decision-making and I can see what I can do together, but I would like to make the point that I am not going to say that I am going to take the decision to make that arrangement. But I would like to enable the Chamber to reach a verdict by allowing as much information as possible to move in its direction. If you'll let me read it like that, I'd like to give him room for judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u164	I see Mrs. Mulder nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u165	In my view, this is also how we exchanged it in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u166	The motion in part No. 855 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u167	Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Grinwis' motion to item No. 857. He asked the government to evaluate as soon as possible whether the application of the legal presumption of evidence would be sufficient. Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. I'm doing that because we're going to evaluate the law anyway. This evaluation must be completed by 1 July next year, and it will, of course, pay explicit attention to this aspect. With that, I'll give the motion judgment Chamber. It is good to have a motion adopted in your maiden speech debate if the Chamber goes along with that! In any case, he has increased the chance that this motion will be adopted. I'll give the motion judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u168	The motion in part No. 857 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u169	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 858 by Grinswis and Beckerman. It invites the government to convey to the IMG how the legal presumption of evidence is intended. Actually, that's kind of in line with the previous motion, so I can give it to the Chamber in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u170	The motion in part No. 858 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u171	Then the motion to part No. 859. In it, Mr Nijboer and the other signatories ask me to come forward with a value reduction scheme for this calendar year. That's up to the IMG and not me. I cannot undertake to do so in 2021 either. I've already indicated that it's not like nothing's happening right now. But I cannot do what is requested in this motion, including me. So I'm afraid I'm gonna have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u172	The motion in part No. 859 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u173	That doesn't mean we're not doing everything we can to speed up as much as possible. Then motion to part No. 860 by Mr Nijboer. That is a point that was clearly highlighted in his contribution to the debate, both in the first and second periods. He says: make appointments, so that the NAM, even if it disappears or whatever, will simply pay those costs. The good news is that these guarantees are basically contained in the agreement. This underlines it once again for me. So I'd like to give that motion a ruling, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u174	The motion in part No. 860 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u175	Then the motion to part No. Mr Kops, Mr Kops, Mr Kops, Mr Kops, Mr Kops, Mr Kops, Mr Kops, Mr Kops, Mr Kops, Mr Kops, Mr Kops, Mr Kops, I know exactly what he means. I'm really looking for a way to meet him. There will be two complexities. It sounds a little faint, but if someone doesn't report in, of course you don't know that automatically. I know that IMG does a lot to be very visible, also physically, so that people come forward anyway. I can ask the IMG: do you have a view on this or a feeling about it and can you get a look at what you're doing about it? I can send that to your room. If you'll allow me to fill in the motion, I'd like to give it a Chamber of Appeal. I understand Mr Kops' intention very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u176	I see Mr Kops nodding. The motion in part No. 861 gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u177	Fine. Then the motion to part No. Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr It's asking the gas field not to close down. That is what we discussed in the debate. With reference to that, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u178	The motion in part No. 863 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u179	For the motion in part No. 864 is the same. We'll keep the watchlight for a while, as long as all the alternatives aren't sufficient for the security of supply. After that, we just don't want to drill in Groningen anymore. Then it is also pointless to keep that watchflame on. That's how I'm gonna dissuade that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u180	The motion in part No. 864 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u181	Then I have the motion in part no. 862 by Mr Kops, who asks the government to ensure that all earthquake victims are fully compensated by 2021. There's gonna be 1,000 a week. I can't live up to this, no matter how much I want to. That's why I have to discourage the motion. I would like to add that we are doing everything we can to do it as quickly as possible. The IMG handles the average file within six months, and there are incredible numbers of them. As much as I would like to... I wish they were done yesterday, but I'm not going to make promises here that I can't live up to, because that's also detrimental to trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u182	The motion in part No. 862 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u183	If it is good, then the administration is so perfect that you get the missing numbers from Mrs Ollongren's bingo card.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u184	Thank you, Minister. Then I'll suspend the meeting for a single moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u185	I call the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u186	Mr President, thank you. I have one more question to answer, Mrs Mulder's question about the execution test. Then I have two further motions, and then I hope that our joint administration is indeed running around. We talked about the execution test in law enforcement. Mrs Mulder just said that she now thought she had understood that it would only come to the AMvB and the rules on damage and strengthening. That is true, of course, strictly speaking, because the legal treatment has already been here. I thought I had understood the Chamber in such a way that it attaches itself to having an execution test, but also to allowing the legal process to continue. So what I promised at the time is to ensure that there will indeed be an execution test and that it will be sent together with the AMvB. The exporters, IMG and the NCG, are closely involved in this. The same is true of the ministerial arrangement. The ministerial regulation, of course, concerns the rules governing implementation, which are actually the most important for implementation. This is indeed the result of an execution test from the NCG. I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u187	I was concerned that we should simply get that document to the Chamber in its entirety and that we should discuss it in detail here too. That's what I cared about. So not from: we do not discuss this separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u188	Then I think we have understood each other well. The law is through, the execution tests come with AMvB and with ministerial regulations, the Chamber is informed and can debate this with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u189	Thank you. Then there are two more motions, the motion in part No. 851 and the motion in part No. 856.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u190	The motion Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 851 calls for a comprehensive plan and sufficient resources. I'd like to give some explanation before I pass judgment on this motion. We compensate for all the costs that are incurred to get homes to safety standards. All the costs required. I have a mandate for that, for that reinforcement, and so does the NCG. That is an unlimited mandate to achieve that safety standard. There will also be a comprehensive plan, which I have just announced. This is the multiannual reinforcement plan drawn up by the municipalities. This in total leads me to say that I would like to leave the ruling on this motion to the Chamber, but that is what is happening with the explanation that has just been given. In addition to achieving safety standards, we have, of course, also made administrative agreements to do more than is strictly necessary in terms of safety. That budget is not unlimited, but I can give you the guarantee of adequate resources for safety. So with that explanation, please judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u191	I see Mrs. Beckerman nodding. The motion in part No. 851 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u192	Then the motion to part No. 856, by Mr Grinwis cum suis. It's about mental health care. In the recital there is actually a request for structural resources to be made available to the GVA, the Spiritual care earthquake area Groningen. At present, the resources of the ministries of EZK and VWS are not structural; there is a one-off amount of €550,000. That is not yet fully spent, which is probably also due to the corona conditions. In addition, we have the 10 million for the period until March 2025. That is still being worked out, together with the region. That's where BZK sits at the table, but also the region. That's the social and healthy table. I'll inform the Chamber about that, too. So I would like to have that discussion and I would like to involve the VWS ministry in this. The only warning I give is that this does not necessarily result in a structural amount of €550,000 per year, but that we are going to try to do it in a different way. In doing so, I would like to give the House a ruling on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u193	Thank you. I see Mr Grinwis nodding yes. That gives the motion in part No. 856 also judgment room. There is another question from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u194	I have another question about the subsidy the Minister was talking about, so people with mental health problems can apply for a subsidy. By applying for a grant, these people find themselves back in a forest of bureaucracy and have to fill out all kinds of forms. Is there a way that people can be helped directly with an amount? How that should be worked out, I don't have that wisdom right now. But when I heard the word "subsidies," I thought: well, people have to make a lot of applications. I think we should try to avoid that as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u195	I agree with Mrs Van der Plas. In my view, this should not be a subsidy to be applied for by people in need of mental health care. So it's about the organization that needs to be able to provide mental health care. They must have sufficient resources to do what is necessary. Of course, that should not affect the people who need help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u197	That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u198	Vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I would like to thank the two directors, as well as the MPs and the viewers at home.
