ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the amendment of a number of education laws relating to adjustments in the field of the transfer of primary education to secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u2	I call the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. He's in the room by now. Once again, I would like to welcome him. He will begin his first-term response. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And also thanks to the Chamber, first of all for inviting me to be here again, I say right away, knowing that I have spent so many years in this Chamber, including in other ways. There were a number of Members of Parliament who indicated: why this debate at the moment? Mr Kwint said that Mr Bertema also made a comment. I can only inform you that I have received an invitation, and that, as it should of course, I am going to this House as a matter of urgency to take the defense on behalf of the cabinet of the bill that had already been submitted to you. So that's a choice of your room itself. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Paul. That was indeed a very nice maiden speech you made. And I wish you every happiness, and wisdom, in the important task you have been given in Parliament, in the most beautiful committee there is, as we often say to each other. Mr. Chairman. I have built up my answer as follows. I want to do it in three blocks. In the first block, I would like to highlight the importance of the legislative proposal, also in relation to promoting equality of opportunity. In the second, I would like to address the importance of the legislative proposal and the questions that have been asked about it when it comes to removing the bottlenecks that have arisen in the system. And in the third block, I would like to bring along a number of other questions, such as the question of how we dealt with an earlier amendment by Mr Bishop. But also a number of other questions I can take with me in this third block that have not gotten a spot in the first two. First of all, the first block. It is good, I think, to clarify for a very short time where we are at the end of the day, and why we are standing here with this bill. There was a very intensive debate in this Chamber in 2013 about what was called "the final test." Very intensive. A number of Members of Parliament, at least Mr Beertema and Mr Van Meenen, were actively involved. At the end of the day, the Chamber finally turned the bill on its head, I say very domestically. That was under the previous cabinet. Through the Rog/Schouten, CDA and ChristenUnion amendment, which was supported by almost all political groups, except for the PVV, so all the other political groups supported that amendment. Suddenly there was a situation where there was a completely different legislative proposal, which eventually got a majority in this Chamber and, albeit not with those numbers, but with a majority in the First Chamber. A small detail: the PVV group did vote in favour of this bill, unlike in the House of Representatives, so consistency is mainly in the person of Mr Beertema. And that must also be said: it is always clear and clear about how it stands in it, unshakeable, in all the debates. That I do not agree with him in everything, may prove to be the case, but there is no misunderstanding about that. The bill finally came into force in 2014, and there has been a very comprehensive review. Oberon did. You've been given all these pieces. And two years ago, just before the summer recess, I think it was very much discussed with each other in a committee meeting room on a hot day. I indicated in the letter I had sent following the evaluation what bottlenecks we experienced in the implementation of the law as it had entered into force in 2014. I also submitted to the Chamber what I would like to change in the law. And I cannot help but note that all the points I have now mentioned in the law were finally accepted by the Chamber at the time, of: that is what needs to be done. And I did indeed start with the legislation before that. I made one exception at the time, and it was the VVD group in particular who put the finger on that very much, and that was that moment of notification: 1 May or 1 April. I have indicated this, and I shall come back to that separately later on, because there were some concerns about whether 1 May might still be possible, including the follow-up to follow-up to follow-up education. That performance test has also taken place, and you have just received it: 50 pages in which very detailed and detailed details are given as to what is, I would say, the possibilities and opportunities, or as they may be experienced in schools. That's not just from the p.o. and vo, but that is also from the sbo and special education. They have also given their reflection on this. They saw a lot of objections in particular. Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal that we are debating today is therefore a result of very intensive discussions and debates with Parliament, whether or not it adopts motions and statements from the Chamber. Sometimes it was Mr Kwint's point, but still, a majority is a majority. You know that. Indeed, I have good reasons to do so. I'll be defending it in your direction later. That is how we got here and why this bill is in this form, with the support of your Chamber at the time. This is of course without prejudice to the fact that everyone has to make their own assessment. New Members of Parliament have also joined, or even new groups. But there can't really be any surprises for you about what we agreed at the time about what I would do. Mr. Chairman. In the course of the discussion at the time, we discussed very extensively what this does to ensure equal opportunities. That's coming back now. I understand that very well. By equal opportunities, of course, we mean that every child should be able to express the talents he or she has received and that we should be able to give everyone room for that. Those can be very different talents. We're not gonna put value judgments in that either. Some are very practical oriented, others are a bit more theoretical. Some have a combination of both, by the way. In the development of children to adulthood, we try to discover what the talents are, which is the most beautiful thing there is; it's so fascinating, and we want to give children opportunities to develop those talents further, in education and, of course, beyond. Then we will see in practice, both in education and outside education, because you also know that this is a multifaceted monster that can be attributed not only to education but sometimes to certain children, but not to all. We all have jargon for that in education, but especially children from a low SES, we know, do not always end up in the place where they might actually end up in view of their content. It is a task for all of us, a sacred task, not only for policy makers but also for the people in practice, to take care of it. Of course, in this legislative proposal we can never solve the whole problem of inequality of opportunity, or whatever you want to call it. It's really an illusion if someone thinks that a bill can deal with that. However, this does not mean that legislation does not matter and that legislation on this subject, the way in which the primary school period, primary education, is completed and the transition to continuing education, cannot contribute to this. The evaluation made it clear that there were a number of very concrete bottlenecks that we can also do something about. Most of you have supported the first point widely, namely that there are going to be two login moments when you make an adjustment take place, or at least offer the space for an adjustment. We know that at least about 2,000 children a year do not end up in the right place for that reason. I thought Mrs Paul indicated that, if you have a review of the school advice, you have a seven times greater chance of not being on the spot or at the level, or sometimes literally not at the school, where you would like to go. We have said this together: we do not like it; we are going to do something about it. We'll take care of that in this law. I think it is a very important point of profit that this is simply laid down in legislation. We then talked about the moment of application. I have just said something about this, for an introduction. I have asked you for room to take a comprehensive execution test, as to what could be the most appropriate time. And then not: what would you like? But: what is practical? I sent you that test; I thought it was in December. It was part of that extensive package of pieces that you received at the time. It turned out that when it comes to wishes, it is very diverse, but that a very large group said that it could be March or early April. In short, there were several wishes that arose from that. But when it came to feasibility, it emerged that if we were to hold on to 1 May, which was our intention in the first instance, this could cause problems in practice for schools, especially for special schools but also for other schools, in drawing up the formation and approving it by the Mr. In short, they wanted to have a little more clarity rather in order to be able to organise education properly for the period after the holiday. From the p.o. It was very clearly stated that there was also a commitment to a good deadline for the transfer of pupils, for a warm transfer. A large part of the schools saw problems when that would happen later. You know that as far as 1 May is concerned, there is a holiday period which usually ends 7 May, after the commemoration of 5 May. So we actually had too little time to do so in a good way. The study, which you have also had and which I think you have read, also showed that parents also want to have clarity in time about which school their child can go to and what level their child can go to. If that clarity comes late and it's not the clarity you want, it's also more complicated to find a place somewhere else. That has ultimately been the consideration of choosing the date of 1 April, where you know that we are a week ahead of it. We have had the discussion about what that will do with the subsequent education period before. You know it's been investigated, too. First of all: do we make the test very big? We do not want that, and I do not think anyone in this Chamber, perhaps with a single exception, will like a kind of closure. The test is simply that second objective fact, also in relation to an opinion given and ultimately also a final opinion for placement in secondary education. Research that we have done and which have also been sent to you shows that the purchase advancer does not go at the expense and has to go at the expense of completing the teaching time. Reasoning from the professionals who do their work in the school, I even think that it is almost a bit an insult to them if we assume that once the test has been taken, nothing will happen in their classroom with their students and the teachers who bear responsibility for it. So considering everything, we chose this date. Know that I am promoting that good agreements are made between primary and secondary schools when it comes to the transfer. This can also include what can still be addressed in the weeks towards the transition to secondary education, which can also further promote and manage this transition. This is already a way in which many schools work, but that is not yet the case everywhere. It is, of course, always important to promote this wherever possible. So this is what we settle with each other when it comes to that login date. Indeed, I think it is very good that we are now laying this down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u4	I understand. I really hadn't taken that comprehensive report to heart, but I understand the consideration that it seems impossible to do so at a later date. Although I do wonder how as a secondary school you make such a rocket science of making that formation, but well, that will be in that piece and I'll read it as well. You continue to say that, and I found that surprisingly surprising that after that final test, all these schools obviously continue to provide the right education. But if I remember correctly, you can just measure that the learning outcomes really go back months from the final test from the student tracking system in grade 8 and just after the summer. So what kind of research is that? Can you say more about that? And if there isn't, then maybe it would be something to put in the picture, because students really learn months of learning about understanding reading after the Cito test and September 1st the following year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u5	I don't have the name of the body that did that, but that went to your Chamber at the time. We have not only based ourselves on that research, but we have also had talks, including with the schools themselves. It is true that the picture of schools can sometimes be a bit variable. This will not surprise anyone with the thousands of schools we have in this country and the circumstances that sometimes may be somewhat different in schools. But schools are responsible for the progress of their pupils until the last day. Of course there is also that you prepare a very good good goodbye with each other. But I was at an elementary school at the Betuwe this week. There is still a lot of work going on, which was also apparent from all the plans they had made with content education. That's a school that goes on vacation pretty soon. You can also expect from professionals Mr Peters knows from practice that they will continue to be full for their students as long as they are under their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u6	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u7	Then the order of the school advice first and then the second objective fact. Ma'am... I need to take a look at her name, because I met her for the first time in the debate. Mrs Pouw-Verweij pointed out that school advice is, of course, also based on objective data. That's right. Because usually school advice is not made by one person, but by several people. There are often teams involved who know students for a longer period of time. They determine with each other what will eventually be the advice. They also rely on the revenues they have collected in the years before, including through their own tests and the assessments they have made, in which the apprenticeship follow-up system is, of course, a very important source for them. That's what you can expect from these professionals. We have noticed that the space that was between the school advice and that second objective given, so taking the final test is a very long one. That also stimulated certain behavior that we'd rather not see each other. The assessments which bring them closer together also do justice to the final judgment, which can always be adjusted and reviewed. Over the past period, I have given you a number of times the percentages of pupils who were eligible for review and of the adjustments that had taken place. If you compare it from 2014-2015 onwards, of course, this year still has to come and there has been one year in between. You can really see a very clear, substantial increase in this. So that means that the test really does its job and that it also provides for rethinking and adjustment. We deliberately did not choose to do so, which was also changed in a debate two years ago, because at that time this was also a big topic of necessity, because then you are going to put enormous pressure on that key. This in turn leads to behaviour that may be very helpful to certain pupils, because parents can pay for it in a manner of speaking. For other students where this is not the case, it becomes a lot more difficult. In short, we have tried to find a balance in this. Mr. Chairman. I have seen Mrs Paul's amendment. That has become a sort of yes-unless amendment. I would like that amendment to be rejected for a moment, because I think it is an addition to our own legislative proposal and also a good middle way. In this way, it has not been discussed before between you and me. On the one hand, it says: schools must move. So you're not gonna let it depend on parents to do something. So a school basically has an obligation to convert, but those are the professionals again. They can have very good arguments and reasons to say: yet we do not think it wise to do so. Then it should be exchanged with the parents as well. Eventually, we also know that there is not so much use of it as it is that if parents do not agree with the final judgment of a school, they can also go to an appeal body. That is all formalized, so to speak, but still: there is always a possibility, if one does not agree with it. Have we found the number of the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u8	It concerns the amendment in respect of item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u9	The amendment in part No. 10 I'm judging Room. It's very important that we do this now, with one login moment. I myself was faced with something like this recently. I would almost say "personal," but I finally had my officials do it. But I was confronted a week or three ago with a situation where a child who had an amended advice could no longer go to the level where she was interested in a girl. In the end, this is well arranged in good consultation with the school, but there really had to be a change. It is now arranged to the satisfaction of the parents and the child concerned. But, of course, that's very annoying. We will be able to prevent that from happening because of the clarity in the login moment. Even then, there may still be situations where a child may not be placed for certain reasons, but I think that the chances of it happening in the way we know it now are much smaller. Mr. Chairman. A number of honourable Members have also asked for it, but we have asked the schools to give them a chance to advise, especially at this time of Corona. We see enormous consequences for these students due to the loss of the test in the previous year. It was inevitable then, but it has enormous consequences. Following the motion adopted by the Labour Party, we are not following these pupils for one year but for three years. I sent you the first report in December. That's what the Cito or DUO does. In any case, you have received a report on this. You will continue to receive them in the coming years. In the autumn there will be another one and in the following year there will be another one. We have seen that there has been under-advisation. We had also asked for attention to be paid to this in the past year. That is what we have done this year. There is therefore a very clear and, as I understand from the education system, good teaching has come to advise the winning hand and foot. I am very grateful to the Teachers collective for the tutorials they have offered. This shows that I will come back to the pabos later that it is important for teachers to be included in practice and to be given the opportunity to train. The latter may sound a bit heavy; at least they can further shape their thoughts and let their behavior be inspired by them. We will continue to do so in the near future, because it is important that these opinions are simply in order. We're going to supplement that now, with an opinion on the possibility of passing to junior high. Also in the following year, we continue to give that attention and continue to support schools to ensure that or follow students in the right place. If necessary, there must also be room to guide them to a place where they might be better in place. This is an important change that is taking place at this time: promoting equal opportunities for all children when it comes to their talents. In addition, as part of the national education programme, we have indicated that we want the pupils of the bridge classes to be looked at individually. That's the so-called capacity test we talked about earlier. We are going to repeat it in the second year of the vote. We are working on everything, in accordance with the government agreement, but also in addition in the national education programme, some of you have pointed this out and have asked what the state of play is in order to promote the wider bridge classes. We can see quite a good progress in this respect, by the way. At the moment we see that about 70% of schools offer broad bridge classes. So these are heterogeneous bridge classes. Sometimes this happens in combination with homogeneous bridge classes. We can also see that it is still quite difficult to do this well especially for the more theoretical directions, but it is a growing thing. The discussion about three-year bridge classes seems a little far away, but about 50% of the schools already have a two-year junior level, which is now just being offered. Again, that does not mean that all bridge classes are so designed. We are now in the process of trying even more sophisticatedly to obtain such information from us. They're working on it. I think it's important that you make sure that students end up in a bed, even when they're transitioning from p.o. to make vo. In the bed of broad bridge classes, heterogeneous bridge classes, roof pan classes or whatever you want to call them, they have the opportunity to further discover who they are, what they have in them and where they can best come into their own. That's one way to avoid a hard moment at the age of 11 or 12 years old. For some, it is already clear what they want, but not for a lot of them either. I think this bed is very important for that. That is what we are committed to, I repeat, with the national education programme. In fact, very specific funds have been made available, with your agreement. In this way, with the legislative proposal and with all kinds of additional measures, we are trying to give pupils equal opportunities, also in the transition of p.o. to vo. (NL) Mr President, I should like to comment on that investigation, following the motion by the Labour Party: that was DUO. That's where you got the first one. Mr Peters asked about these broad opinions. Mr Segers and others have asked for this. Schools are getting better and better at that. This is partly due to the fact that we have adapted the test advisory categories so that there are broad opinions. There are therefore much broader opinions. We didn't take care of it very long ago either. That's what Mr Peters' question was about. I think that schools can't be dealt with later, so to speak, on the fact that they might have given their pupils too high advice. No, that won't happen again. I do notice that it is still a bit between the ears of education. So this is gonna take some time. But once again, we see that the number of broad opinions is increasing. That's just a very good thing. I very much welcome that myself. Wherever that's necessary and where that's possible, just do it. And try to get over the cold feet a little bit. The question is, of course, justified, which has also been asked here: should we not make it compulsory? Then maybe you're out of line again. So it's here again looking for a good balance. We continue to follow this, because we have that information and it is always shared with you. I really assume that the growth of these broad opinions will continue in the coming period, even if the fear of cold water has disappeared a bit between the ears, at least some of the teachers. It was also created because there was reason to do so, so that is not a reproach. That may take some time, but it is very important to do good with each other. Mr. Chairman. Then it is also important that we involve the pabos well in the advice and also in the discussions about it, with the progressive insight that arose there. I know my colleague is working on that, too. I also know that such a hand-out, as we have made available to the schools, is also used on the pabos in education. We will, of course, also encourage this to continue to be done, not only in terms of knowledge for these students, but also in terms of wider knowledge, so that teachers are well trained in the choices they have to make to ensure that children are placed in a good place. I also make that remark about what you sometimes belong to and I am not saying that that comes from your Chamber.... that people think: if we have a broad secondary class now, then it will all work out. That is very important, but it stands and falls with the didactic qualities that a teacher has, also to differentiate in the classroom. Let me take a Havo/Vwo bridge class. If you only teach there at the level of the vwo, then perhaps something goes wrong with the student who is a bit more on the Havo side, and the other way around, of course. So you need teachers who have the qualities and skills, where we also have to teach them. For this, the national education programme also offers opportunities, which are widely used, when it comes to using the money for this kind of thing. Then didactic qualities need to be further developed. That's not something you only learn from the training courses. You learn something from it, nowadays more than in my day, then it was really a blind spot. Today more attention is paid to this, but in the end it is also very important to keep getting you cleaned up in practice, to learn from your colleagues and so on and so on. So we should also not focus in everything on the idea that, if we've arranged it with broad bridge classes or whatever, then all of a sudden all the problems have been solved. Well, there's a little bit more attached to that. Mr. Chairman. I think that with this bill and around it we are really taking a few very good and great steps to promote equality of opportunity, and that wherever it may be in the law we can ensure that the regulation is also supportive of it and can form the basis for it. Is that the dot on the horizon that some have in mind? We have, of course, had some advice in recent times that the dot goes much further. That is possible, but these are far-reaching changes in the system, which are not just the p.o. but also hit the vo and the mbo. In short, that is quite far-reaching, and that goes beyond the possibilities that a outgoing cabinet has of course. I don't think you'll blame us for that. It also calls for a very wide-ranging political debate. It has already developed a bit in the Chamber between Mr Beertema and Mr Van Meenen, in particular, who can always bring each other to unprecedented heights in a debate. That is indeed a debate that will have to be continued. It is without prejudice to the fact that the steps we are taking now are absolutely important steps, on the basis of the evaluation carried out in recent years. That also applies if you think it should go on, but also for Mr Beertema. That's why we've laid it down in the law. Around this we are trying to achieve progress in many ways, including with the National Education Programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u10	That debate on these great and compelling steps will undoubtedly have to take place, and I hope it will. Yeah, we haven't got that far yet. Then we have to make the best of what we have now. This is an attempt; I understand that. I said in my contribution: I am happy with the central registration moment. I also read the struggle to come to a later moment. Isn't it true, bearing in mind the words of the Minister of just now, that there is increasing movement towards broader bridge classes, rooftop bridge class, double advice, etc.? The time needed for schools to get children in the right place and indeed to arrange for that warm transfer, allows that one registration moment to come later than in any case 24 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u11	I have referred to the research that you have received and which pays great attention to it. What can and can't schools do? Then you can see a difference between schools. I do not exclude that the schools which are already a little further along this route, including the wide range and so on, can do this a little easier than schools where this is not yet the case. Ultimately, of course, it is just a weighting, based on that report and looking at the clarity that parents want. Not only the vo-schools must be equipped for the warm transfer. The p.o. schools also want to make a clear and intensive contribution to this. It came from their side in particular that they would like to have a little more time for the transfer. Eventually we could only conclude that 1 May is really too early to choose. I do not rule out the possibility of it moving further in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u12	It can also work the other way around if we now make another choice, which some schools already consider feasible. Then you could be more compelling towards those schools by choosing a different date. Then you send them that way, just like the other schools. Now they will have the opportunity to rest in the situation as it is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u13	I do not have the impression that schools are in this. They are quite heavily questioned about wishes and possibilities and opportunities. It's on the side of primary education. That's where people want time to hand the students over properly. I think that's respectable, too. The point is that we look to the maximum what they need to do with time. It is clearly the component of special education. It's a lot of information, but I'm asking you to take another very specific look at the report. In particular, many obstacles were experienced in these schools. In the end, as drivers, we have to consider whether we consider the feasibility to be justified in the broadest sense. If we had stuck to 1 May, I think there would have been real problems with the feasibility. That would affect children again, which we'd rather not have. That's why we chose to do this. Maybe it's an ingrowth moment and can continue later, but for the moment we don't think that's justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u14	I've got four, Mr President, so I'm gonna make them up, and we're done. I myself have had the experience, sixteen years, of working in secondary education and working with this transition. At that time it was indeed still so much so that we now go back a little bit to it that the opinion came at the end of January. At the beginning of February, you had the test and then the application. Then it was done by mid-March. It would take you, grab him, a month to transfer those kids warm. That was true for most kids. Of course, there were also complex issues. You could even say: an exception can be made for children who really have a heavy need for support and so on. But for the big group of students, you really don't need more than a month. I should also like to look at Mr Peters, who has experience with the same thing. I think there's a lot you can do in a month. If you did this May 1st, you'd have six weeks to get this right. I think it's possible and we should push the schools a little bit more that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u15	We didn't do this on the basis of one, two or three, but we did have an independent investigation, very wide, to get sufficient direction on the date of choice. You know that May 1st was my preference, too. That's what I talked to you about. But I said I'm gonna take that execution test. I sent it to you again, and we made it really serious. I think it is a responsibility that we have with each other to consider whether or not it is justified, and this is ultimately the weighting we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u16	I had to chew on an answer given by the Minister a few minutes ago. It was about the fear of cold water that schools would have to place children with double advice as low as possible. With a mavo/havo- or havo/vwo-advies they put on the havo, for fear that they would be taken care of by the inspection and would not come forward so well in the lists. Of course, that was always very bad. The Minister points out that this is slowly decreasing, and it takes time. But isn't there something the Minister can do to kick that cold feet out with a little more pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u17	We have done so, and the inspection itself has done so. The inspection itself has also communicated very clearly in the direction of the schools how they deal with this. Still, that's deep. That is why I think it will take some time, but it can only help us to talk about it here too. That's right, this is what you have to say, this is what you need to talk about. When I'm confronted with this on school visits, of course, I do so myself, in person. We are also discussing it with the representatives of education. I really see this as "a problem" that will disappear very quickly. That is what we are actually seeing now in the run-up to these double school advices. It's just really very much to be applauded that you're giving a double advice if that suits a child. Nor do we accept that this would stagnate. Mr. Chairman. One more comment on the word 'flow-through'. Some have found inspiration in this, including Mrs Pouw, to build beautiful sentences. If it was only about changing a word, then you know me, I think, well enough to know that this would not have been my proposal, because that is indeed semantic. I agree with Mr Beertema. But the proper focus on a test at the end of the elementary school period, which is the primary education period, can we say nowadays... is also very firm not only between the ears of education. It's disappearing because they know what's going on. That is also between the ears of parents and also between the ears of students. It is, I think, very important that I agree with Mr Peters that we say very emphatically that there is not one moment when you look at whether a child is in a good place or where it should be. We just have to follow that for a whole school period. So that's why we're doing it again in seventh grade, we're going to do it in second grade and we're going to follow those kids for three years. Mr De Hoop of the Labour Party has tabled a motion supported by the Chamber. We've been tracking what happens to those kids for three years now. That's really giving kids opportunities, especially when you find out that a kid isn't quite on the right track. Some people know from their own experience that if you're on the wrong track for a while, that doesn't mean you won't end up well, but it's an additional obstacle you have to take. That is why, in the wording, I have also adopted this amendment, because words matter; I believe that it actually came from the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the system, which is my second block, and the amendment tabled by Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld. This is really one thing for me. This also applies to the first block. Let me explain to you why. I started by saying that my predecessor was standing here with a law that was very clear: Central Final Test, nothing else. That law has been completely turned upside down by the Chamber, not by a small majority, but by an overwhelming majority, except for Mr Bertema. All other groups, including the SP, GroenLinks and Labour Party groups, have complied with that outcome. Read the debate again; that was quite an interesting little debate with the Labour Party, especially when the representative of the Labour Party came back with a slightly different position after the suspension. Then there was a very complicated situation for the system in the implementation, because what did we get? We actually got a test now that, I would say, came from the government. I will come back later on to talk about a market, because this is really not a market in the sense of: come on everyone, you can make money from it. I'm gonna say something about that later. It was a test that came from the government, made by the Cito, under the responsibility of the CvTE. And the Chamber has that right, isn't it? I'm not gonna take an ounce off that either. In the Upper House this is also supported by the PVV. In the end, the Chamber said in a majority: we also want freedom of choice and that also "private" sounds like very loaded tests other than those offered by the government, as long as they meet quality criteria. But that created, dear people, a hybrid system, because you got a system in which there were also two quality guards and in which the very strange figure was that the one responsible for the offer of a test, the CvTE, was also the supervisor. But that is what we have chosen with open eyes, I say this way. In addition, we had the other tests. There's never been more than four. I really don't think there's gonna be much more. Maybe another one's coming up. That might be possible, but there is also really a ceiling on what could be offered here. Those tests also had to have their own quality guard, because they weren't there yet. That has become the expert group, which over the years... Those people have done their best, hear; I want to speak with great respect about them. But it's super-vulnerable, really. It's super-vulnerable. They not only have their own quality guards, they also have their own quality framework. The CvTE was therefore responsible for the final test and the Expert Group Keys PO for the four other keys; in the end it became four. This led to very different procedures for quality control and also for standardisation. Look at what I wrote in the letter of two weeks ago about the standards, but also what we experienced in 2019. That makes it really unnecessaryly complex, which is so far too risky. We have seen in recent years that there have been accidents for that reason. The 11% Mr Beertema talked about has nothing to do with the fact that publishers have said anything about it. I told you myself. We have had debates on this. I was terrified, really, when I got the signals that around that advice two years ago something had gone wrong. Luckily, we were able to fix that. Really, the kids didn't get hurt. It has called for a huge effort from the schools. 11% of schools had just given wrong advice. We were lucky to find out. How did that happen? You don't have to believe me, but it is the reality: it really was because of the complexity of the system. We have two of those normalists. The knowledge and qualities needed to do that well... that has to do with psychometry... are very scarce, not only in the Netherlands, but also internationally. That knowledge and those qualities were fragmented and not properly applied, causing these problems. The fact that we didn't have a test last year was a real pain in the ass, but that didn't cause us a problem at all. We had another problem: the under-advisation and so on. But this year it was vulnerable again, so it's super-vulnerable. If you adopt the cabinet bill by a majority, it is even doubtful whether we will be able to bring it into force next year. That's gonna have to be hard work. But you're holding on to your heart. I'm just saying it in very clear, round language. If we tear this out, we'll fall back on the current situation. That could be a choice. I don't take an ounce of your responsibility to consider that, but I think it's super-linky. I do not think it is responsible for taking responsibility for this. Those are tough words, but believe me, it's just a tough subject. Well, we've seen something else that was pretty. I am referring to the choice of this vast majority of Parliament to also offer other tests, which at first was very shaky, also in the comparability, which is again important for equality of opportunity. Because as a child you will only take a test that is not or less good, then that also has consequences for the advice and adjustment. Maybe you won't get any adjustment, etcetera, etcetera. We worked so hard on that. I've kept you up to date over the past few years. 2018 was such a moment: then it had to be ensured that this comparability between the tests could be there. Well, that really worked out in the end. I'm referring to the anchor statements and the way they work. We saw that on the previous test, which was researched: that works. And that is also a response to the Council of State's question as to whether these tests are comparable. Yes, we dare to say that now, also on the basis of what we have been through this year. In that we are now so far away that the comparability of the tests is really in order. Of course, we have to stay sharp on that, but that's for each other. Then we faced a choice with this bill. That's what I talked to you about two years ago. Keeping this up this way is really not responsible. Well, then you actually only have two choices. Not from: then delete this change and fall back on the old situation. That is also a choice, but I think it is not very logical from the point of view of practice and what we are facing. Then you have to fall back on what my predecessor initially came to the Chamber: one test centrally from the government, all under the direction of the government, and so on, and so on. That is Mr Beertema's position. There is still a choice, which, two years ago, was still widespread in the Chamber, of offering room for freedom of choice. We have taken that as a starting point. We have tried to make it clear, transparent and workable. That's in front of you now. What is the problem with this? Well, take a look back. Isn't there ever gonna be trouble? Of course, I can't say that here either. You're pulling my tie over the table the moment something happens again, if I'm still here. Of course, that is not the issue either, because problems can always arise. But it is much more unambiguous, we also concentrate knowledge much better in a right place and supervision remains entirely in the hands of the government, to put it that way. So we take responsibility, I say to Mr Kwint. We have a clear oversight, for which the CvTE is put back in position, even when it comes to allowing the tests, I say to Mr Peters, who asked for them. Yes, tests can be stopped, as has happened in the past. We're all gonna legally guarantee that. We are given a very clear system, in which the government fully accepts its responsibility and in which the test providers are given the space to offer their tests. If they pass the criteria, they can also be offered. It can't be earned. The schools don't have to pay for it. It's not a market where it's going: if we offer it for €1,000 less, I'll just call it "what do you think they'll come to us." No, they're being subsidised from us. They're just getting amounts to make those tests. They are then spread across all schools that choose to take that test. So that is not a market operation as we often discuss it with each other, sometimes with a difficult face. This is a government that leaves room for such tests, but as a set-up manager very clearly fulfils its responsibility with regard to its design. Is it then a loss that the Central Final Key disappears? Looking at this year's decline rates, we can see that indeed a lot of schools are still using the test, but it is no longer the majority. The four other keys, two of them in particular, simply score very well and are also highly appreciated. There is always room for that final test to be offered from Cito BV. A hard cut has been made between Stichting Cito and Cito BV. Again, that's really strictly separated in everything, even though it has the same name. What is now called the final test will perhaps be added to those four in another form. That space is there, but so far we haven't seen any use of it. That is not the case with other test providers, and we have been talking about this for two years. That also says something about the fact that the market may be reasonably balanced. But those who now have to give substance to it also belong to the expert group in the field of research itself say: if these changes are not carried out, we will not be able to do so anymore. Then they might have to do it for a while. Then we will also have to see if that can be done in a responsible way. But everyone internally, including the Expert Group Keys PO, is very, very much in favour of the changes that are now being made to these laws, because from the point of view of practice it is just seen that it is so incredibly vulnerable. The Cito in this sense, in a slightly different role, especially in the advisory role, has very clear advantages. We concentrate our knowledge and expertise, even when it comes to psychometry, very strongly at the Cito. They are at the disposal of the CvTE, because that will have to advise it, even in the case of the approval of the tests. They are also available to all providers, so that they will also use them in the development of the keys. I am really convinced that this way we guarantee specialist knowledge and expertise in a very sustainable way. I therefore advise against Mr Kwint's amendment to item No. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u18	11.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u19	11. I strongly advise against this amendment, because it could have serious consequences for the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u20	That final advice doesn't quite come as a thunderbolt in the clear sky. The Minister says: "This knowledge is so specific and so scarce; we need to bring it together and bring it together." He also says: "The government still has a guarantee function. In the end, we must ensure that there is a final test, because that is legally laid down." Does he actually say, "Having seen those tasks, if you hadn't jumped in before as a Chamber, it would actually have been more logical to hold on to that one final test"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u21	I'm dealing with a situation that has arisen at some point. Also from the position I have now, I can very well justify that the Chamber indicates that it feels that there should also be a wider range than that the menu of choice only consists of one. That was also the discussion with my predecessor at the time. It has understood this in the end, in the sense that it has in the end made those changes to the law. So I get that choice. But let's say that you're going to work this way, with two standards systems, two supervisors and also a huge fragility in achieving standards and quality assurance, then if you read the evaluation correctly, and we went through it literally with each other two years ago, so to speak, then you can only say that we shouldn't go through with that in this way. At that time, I presented you with two turns, but I myself indicated my preference for one, namely that, from the wider offer, we will continue to organise the system. That is now in the legislation for you. You did indeed try to take that other turn with a motion. A majority of the Chamber did not decide to do so. However, I would like to ask you, through the President, of course, to think very carefully about the consequences of adopting such an amendment for maintaining the current situation, but also for schools. In recent years we have had a number of examples of this which I myself, but also my successor in office, and in particular the children, because that is, of course, not something that I would like to wish to do again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u22	Just a little sharp, that's all. For example, I refer to the 11% we were just talking about. Let's get that by the head. The Minister presents with great certainty that this is inherent in the system we now have and that that is one of the reasons why we need to get rid of it. I do think that if he claims that with such certainty, a little more substance, then a little more support can be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u23	But I have done so in recent years, again in the written rounds we have had. It's not just this one example. The letter from two weeks ago, you're gonna have to take it up again. We didn't send it to you for nothing. I had that information and I thought you should be right. The situation of 2019 with that 11% of the schools just really showed the vulnerability of what I just call "supervisory" not to the detriment of the people there, because they do their work in all conscience and have worked hard to do so, as well as the standardisation of what you call "private tests." That's where it went wrong and fortunately we saw it very quickly, because the schools themselves thought: hey, what's going on here? There were huge discrepancies between their own school advice and what came out of the tests. That is why we were able to fix that quickly, with a little bit of fear for a lot of children. So that's just what happened. But we can see it's vulnerable to them. That's what they're turning themselves in to. I just gave it to you in a very round language: this Expert Group of Keyboards PO is not going to last very long in this way. So if we say "they have to do this for the next four or five years, until the next evaluation," I can already tell you that I or my successor should start looking for another way to organise those safeguards around quality and standards there. Maybe one more year, but we're not gonna last another two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u24	Then we'll be back to my first question after a long round. The Minister points out a vulnerability that he believes is in the system. He says that the normalization of what I called the "private parties" and what happened there with the advice show that the system is vulnerable. It is strange to say that it is now so fragile with these various providers and that the system is complex, finally to draw this conclusion and to say: we will solve this in this way? That's exactly why you're shoving those parties back forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u25	No, that's a misconception. It's not about the keys that are offered. I have just said that they are in order, even those anchor assignments, which are comparable. Of course, we have to keep fighting for that. The issue is that the vulnerability ultimately lies in the monitoring of quality, but also in the standardisation, where it went wrong in 2019. It was on the side of the private keys. With this bill, we do make the choice made by the Chamber, and also by your group, by a large majority, to simply maintain that freedom of choice and that space for those tests, if they are recognized. But the whole supervision and the whole standardisation we are just going to concentrate very clearly. We'll put them in the same hands and not be shattered anymore. In this way, the qualities and knowledge about them, including psychometric knowledge, are also secured much more. It's not like nothing's ever gonna happen again, but I'm really convinced that situations like we've been through, that's gonna happen a lot more than just going on the same path now. We don't want that. But that is what you want with your amendment, because that is the consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u26	This is your fourth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u27	Yes, I know, but I have the feeling that this is a fairly important point in the debate. Still, I don't understand what the Minister is proposing. Of course, all this expertise in the guidance will be brought together at the CvTE, if I say it right. However, this scarce and limited expertise must then be shared for the development of four, five, six or three different tests or standards. The Minister keeps saying: the parties have agreed. That is right; there is no one at all who denies it, although there is still some discussion about the voting behaviour of some groups in the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u28	That was mean of me; sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u29	But something has changed, because you can see, for example, that through something like the Law, there is more and more room for new schools to offer their education in different ways. If that goes further apart, it's not so crazy that you're going to think towards that end point: okay, then we should bring it closer to each other there. I mean, something's changed since we discussed that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u30	The point of discussion is not that there are different keys. It's precisely because we end up working with those anchor assignments that really happened well; that's a class performance they're just comparable. That gives schools a bit of comfort to choose a test that they still like a bit more for their students and their school. So the problem wasn't the offer; it was at first but it wasn't anymore. The problem was that the standards, supervision and quality control were fragmented. This fragmentation also meant a fragmentation of knowledge, particularly very specialised knowledge. By putting a line through this fragmentation and investing it in one place, we ensure that that knowledge ends up in one place. That knowledge is made available to everyone, of course, but that has also happened in the past period. This is really much better and much better than the fragmentation we have had. So it just becomes very clear. It really gets a lot clearer, clearer and better secured. This will also enable the public authorities to fulfil much more their responsibility for monitoring the system and its quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u31	I think that the Minister might refer back a little too easily to an amendment from 2013 from the CDA and the Christian Union. I took that amendment with me for a while. By the way, I followed that discussion at the time, because I worked at the General Parental Association. That was what the discussion was about: should you give schools freedom of choice besides the Cito, which threatened to gain a monopoly position? That was the underlying reason for that amendment, which was voted for by a large part of the Chamber at the time. Now the Council of State's criticism of the Minister's proposal is mainly: do we not make it too vulnerable now? The Council of State is actually saying that it is still very early to send this proposal from the Minister to the Chamber now, because these tests by alternative providers are not yet comparable. I would therefore ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u32	Back a little bit. Calling 2013 isn't meant to be a you-bak. I said very clearly that Parliament has the responsibility and the opportunity to do so. At the time, however, it had considerable consequences, including for the establishment of the system. We said then: we will. That was indeed: audience and private side by side. I'm just gonna say it in those terms. But there were also two supervisors, standardisation and so on. We have now seen this in the evaluation, and we have even seen concrete examples of it ourselves, which simply leads to problems and which can be more unambiguous. The Council of State states that they must be very similar; I have just responded to that. I agree with the Council of State. A number of things have happened in the meantime. In the investigations that have been carried out there, because we have done research on this, we see that, after it started a bit shabby in the beginning, especially in 2018 and 2019 it just went well. This year it has gone well again. We really do have that in order now, and we also need to keep it in order. That is indeed a time to say that we can also take that next step. I sent you all the documents at the time. I think that was all part of the December papers, because we also had independent research on this. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u33	I'm the last one you want to fry. I would just like to refer to that amendment from eight years ago because it was naturally supported in a different context. The thrust of the discussion and the criticism of the Council of State, among others, was: let us be careful that the Cito does not have a monopoly position in the final test but also in the apprenticeship follow-up system. At that time, under the encouragement of the Council of State, the Chamber said that perhaps we should create a system in which schools are given freedom of choice. That was what a lot of schools wanted, which were far from being satisfied with the one Central Final test that was offered. So that was the discussion then. It is true that a system with a number of shortcomings has now been built, including on the basis of that amendment, but perhaps we should improve that system. Then I find it a little too easy just to attribute it to that amendment. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u34	I do not, but the evaluation did show that because of that amendment, which really turned the law upside down, the system was set up in a different way than would have happened if we had taken that one test at the time. The evaluation also showed that it has caused problems, that it is really very fragile and complex. Then, in June 2019, I presented to you in the main letter, "That was a nice debate when we could take those turns." At that time, the cabinet chose to do so by maintaining the freedom of choice, to some extent, of course. At that time I also indicated that the consequence is that we will not take the final test. We see in the field, by the way, it's good to say that here, too, a huge appreciation for that broader offer. That's what people want in the schools. That's pretty broad. So, from there, I went back and looked at how we could make it clear, also on the basis of the support I felt at the time from the Chamber, okay, that motion was tight, but it was a majority vote to put it in a legislative proposal. And that's right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u35	But then it is still a question of whether you can lay down in the law that there will be a central test, and then as a government you no longer guarantee that that review will be offered. That is now left to other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u36	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u37	A question I also asked in my first term is: are these providers going to offer their own training courses, which parents can sign up for, to prepare children again? I heard the Minister just said that no money is being made by offering this review, but my question is: can this not happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u38	First of all, the government is there from start to finish. That sounds very threatening when I say that, but I mean this in a positive sense. The government bears the responsibility from the beginning. It's so set up through the CvTE. The government eventually authorizes or does not authorise these tests when new entrants are admitted. The government is also looking at the current tests. At the moment when things really don't go well, that can just mean, even if one doesn't adjust in the meantime, that the end exercise is when the deadline is over and that one cannot go on. That was a question from Mr Peters, I think. So that's one. The second is that the public authorities have full control, even when it comes to standards and quality control. That's very good, too. So we make our full responsibility come true. The only thing we're breaking up with right now is the strange figure that we were both providers and supervisors. That's a really difficult, complicated situation. We're putting an end to that now. It can't survive like that anymore. Then it is also completely unambiguous and clear, no matter how you set it up. I can't help but think that's a good choice. The only thing you can argue about is whether more keys should be offered, even if they get approval, or if you stick to one key. That is a political choice that was made differently at the time, even when I discussed it with you in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u39	Your fourth question, Mrs Westerveld. Yeah? It's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u40	This is an important part of the debate. I'd like to get the facts straight. I was just wondering if they might be able to offer "teaching to the test" later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u41	I'm going to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u42	The question I would like to put to the Minister is: what if these new providers were to disappear? That could be a consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u43	That was also a question from Mr Bishop, among others. There is even an amendment to it. Let's start with support and training. Well, I just indicated that it's not like schools are paying for it. So soon the situation cannot arise that a test provider who offers a test says: well, if parents like it, we can give training for so much money. No, that's not how it works. If they want to provide support in dealing with their test, then it is there for all students. That's one. And we're paying for the test. "We" is the government. That is just normal amounts, and that is what we are sticking to. So that can never be a big earning model. That's one. The second. Of course, we also need to guarantee the situation in which something may happen that does not offer any tests at all. We had indeed included the provision of an emergency test in our plans. There is still a discussion between Cito and the CvTE which looks at how we can ensure this. Mr Bishop said: guarantee that in the law. I don't know which amendment it is, but I'll give it a judgment straight away: Chamber judgment. However, we still have to discuss how we are going to fill that out and what is a sensible way of doing it. But there has to be some kind of backup in case all the roofs collapse and suddenly no more keys can be offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u44	This is about the amendment to item No. 12 by Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u45	The amendment in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr Bishop also has an amendment to item No. 9 submitted. This ensures that there is no obligation to use nationally standardized Ivs keys.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u47	I'm gonna say something about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u48	Yeah, that'll come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u49	I'm looking forward to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u50	Then Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u51	First of all, congratulations to the Minister for explaining convincingly and clearly why you should not have the law and the amendment. I can follow that. For that, my compliments. I do have a question. You say that everything is placed in position around the CvTE. That's what checks the quality. And yes, it can prohibit a test if necessary. Well, you've devoted some words to it. Is it true that this is not in the law? At least I didn't read it. I thought I heard the Minister say: I'm going to put that in and I'm going to clarify the powers, tasks, roles and so on, possibly in the law. My question is quite simple: have I understood that correctly and are we going to come back to that in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u52	The things we have to settle with each other are just in the law. Let me check whether this is a precise legal text, or whether we are going to do so in other regulations. But we're gonna take care of it. In addition, a Key Decision PO has yet to be taken. But for the rest, not all kinds of other things are worked out. What we have to settle with each other is either in the law or in the Key Decision PO. And that is developing, as you know, because in the end, of course, this legal process must be completed in order to make it final. We have already given the field the space to react to lyrics, but that is not yet final. I will check whether there is a specific legislative text for this and whether I can provide it to you or whether this is organised through other legislation. Mr. Chairman. I'll take a look around the room. I think I have dealt with the issues that were covered by the system. Then I'm going to my third block. This block concerns a number of different things, but perhaps the main issue is what Mr Bishop said about his amendment. That amendment has a history; I am very well aware of it. At some point in this Chamber there was the law on the adequacy requirements. It is an initiative of the Chamber to see from time to time whether the dust comb can pass through and whether things can be done, because things always add up. At the time, a number of cases were submitted to the Chamber and at least two Members of Parliament used the opportunity to settle a number of matters of urgency for them through the law. That was something about physical education, I remember, and there was Mr Bishop's amendment. I agreed with one part of that amendment: to make the kindergarten test no longer possible. That was also part of the coalition agreement. By the way, your Chamber was already informed in letters about how we were going to do that. My colleague Van Engelshoven did so. The Chamber thought that was kind of a long time. It was also clear with this law that the introduction of all parts of this law would take place at different times. A few articles were specifically said: that happens three years after it is placed in the Official Journal. And there were a number of other parts in it that we knew would happen at another time, a later time to be determined. And Mr Bishop's amendment: if we did not do so, it would finally enter into force on 1 August 2022. The House of Representatives accepted the amendment. The First Chamber has even accepted the law without debate. So in principle, that trajectory of entry into force runs in different ways, including with regard to this part. I'll come back to those other parts specifically later. At that time, I did, in principle, take a performance test. In the debate I did not say so much, Mr Bishop; I read back the reports. I've already indicated that it's complicated, but we didn't, say, go through the other parts to the bone. But I had a performance test done at the time, and I sent it to your Chamber. On that basis, also because this legislative process was still ongoing, I indicated that I have concerns about the implementation of a number of parts. And I just shared that very transparently with your room, months ago, because I understood... Mr Bishop also indicated that this had to be done neatly; "unacceptable" he even took in his mouth. Let's see what else he said: "put it straight to Parliament." I did, and I honestly submitted to Parliament that I had problems with a few parts of this law, also on the basis of that execution test. They also affect quality and quality monitoring, including at system level. And that is what I wanted to talk to you about, otherwise, of course, I am not going to share it with you. We've kept that for now. That is not bad in itself, because this is also a very natural moment because this law is now before us. So that is in relation to how it went in the process. I don't know what's bothering me right now. That has to do with the following. Let me start with what that isn't. Not with the fact that schools should also have the space to choose their own tests, when it comes to the apprenticeship follow-up system, apart from groups 1 and 2; that space is just there. If that has been a misunderstanding over and over again, then we have now, so to speak, simply removed it. That's possible. Here's what's bothering me. If we choose to do so, and that is the choice of this cabinet, to stop taking the kindergarten test, so such a kind of written test in the substructure, so groups 1 and 2, then there are also other instruments that we know are just good and trustworthy, so that we can get information that is important for the school, but also for the wider view of how the development of our children is. This is quite important for groups 1 and 2, also because they then come out of the vve again with regard to equality of opportunity and we want to be able to see whether the proceeds from it can make good progress, and we can also follow them in the years after that. At the time when we are not allowed to use any more standard instruments for this purpose, I am not talking about testing, it becomes complicated to keep a good view of this and, not only in the school but also at a slightly higher level, on the broader development of kindergarten children in the Netherlands in all the schools we have. So, as far as I am concerned, that was also a point of discussion with your Chamber, like: did you intend to do so? The second was that you also want to have room for your own choices with the Ivs keys for the groups afterwards. There is. They may add everything to the apprenticeship tracking system, but we would like to see standardized tests used as well, because in this way people not only know in the school itself that they are doing the right test. This can also be done with the keys that are used in addition, which are not called rural standards along the touchstone. But we can also continue to monitor the development of pupils at system level. Can I make a very compelling reference to the State of Education we discussed two weeks ago? This subject has not been discussed. The inspection is genuinely concerned about monitoring the quality of education. There are concerns about this quality, partly because there is less and less use of standardized tests throughout the system, which are therefore very similar to each other, also in terms of yields. If your amendment is adopted now... I say it to you, but also to Mr Van Meenen and Mr Peters, because they have co-signed it. Perhaps it is a mistake for me and the people who support me in relation to what you are trying to do, namely that it is not only laid down by law for groups 1 and 2 that no tests should be used. 'Cause I agree. That's cabinet policy. In addition, however, you no longer consider it necessary for other observation tools to be standardized and used, in addition to all the choices made by the schools themselves. Also for the groups after that, you don't want to use the standardized Ivs keys anymore. As a result, the assurance and certainty we now have with approved tests could be eliminated, in terms of what it will yield in the school itself, but also in terms of the system. That would really be a huge impoverishment of the view that we can hold on to education, in the school and beyond. I can hardly imagine that that is your intention, but that is more or less the result of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u53	I give the floor to Mr Bishop, but it is not quite clear to me whether you are already giving an opinion on this amendment, or whether I am doing so depending on the explanation...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u54	Perhaps I do not even express the opinion in this Chamber, because we may need some time to do so. We did not have this change last time, but I think we should have this change with each other now, in order to be perfectly clear again, with respect for the different positions we are doing here and what the benefits and disadvantages are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u55	When we read the explanatory statement to this amendment, we see very clearly that there is still a possibility for schools to continue using national standard tests. Only, if schools make a different choice, that can very well be done in the context of such a school, of such an education programme, then schools have the space to do so. So I'm putting my finger back on the improper use of keys. Why is it being tested? This is not to be able to compare schools, but to define the progress, position and perspective of pupils. What I come across over and over again is that tests that have been mismeanoured, namely that education, those schools, must be comparable. No, that's not the point. I'm not at all so concerned about that comparability. I believe that there are quite different instruments for the inspection to determine the quality of education at each school individually. The inspection or policy bodies may need to take a aggregated look at where we stand, but you cannot use those tests for that. So it's part of each school's pedagogical responsibility to have the space to take the right test for their students. That may be the choice for a national standardized test, but it doesn't necessarily have to be. There's another way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u56	For the sake of clarity, I have therefore understood the amendment correctly. It means not only that groups 1 and 2 should not be tested, but also that no other standardized observation tools should be used. And in addition to the space available to use your own keys, for groups 3, 4, 5 to 8, the obligation to use standardized keys is deleted. Did I get that correctly? It's purely informative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u57	Yes. Look, if a school chooses to use a national standardized test related to a particular apprenticeship tracking system, that's fine. If a school says "we can better follow students in another way," then that's fine. That's the freedom of that school that you have to respect out of the educational importance for those students.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u58	Of course, there is room for schools to make their own choices, but we also have a broader responsibility with each other, also given the government's supervision of our education, not only at school level but also at a wider level, how the children are doing and how they are doing at such a school. I don't doubt schools when it comes to choices they make, but we know that choices can sometimes go wrong. So if we were to leave it completely free and therefore there is only a choice of our own in relation to the tests or any observation tools they use, then the inspection from the legal task we have given her will have to look at what is going on at the school individually each time. Then you also know that they don't stand on the sidewalk every day. So when things may not work out the way we want them to, you might find out very late, which will have some pretty serious consequences for the kids. These tests are partly used to give a school advice, for example. If we guarantee, also from the quality responsibility we have, that those statutory tests are in any case used, then it also provides a greater guarantee from the system responsibility that the good tests are used in those schools than that it is completely open. That's one. The second is that problems can arise very quickly around age groups, which we have also seen in corona time. How can we find out? Actually, only in a few ways. This is by doing very specific research, but also by making proper use of the results of such standardized tests. Not to compare them and make them some kind of rat race and take care of schools. I do know that this is a mechanism that is sometimes present, but this is not how we want it from the government. It is a question of having these revenues so that we can see very clearly what is going on with the children, where the problems are, where we may have to make extra efforts on the basis of our national responsibility and where we need to support schools more. Look again at the State of Education, at pages 40 to 55, about the system. That's where you'll find all that information. The inspection is much more frequent nowadays with hands in the air. Then some say 'that's a good attitude from them', but I do not think that is true when it comes to putting into practice their responsibility to follow the quality of the system. And we're so worried about quality? Mr Peters, co-signator of this amendment, repeatedly points out that we need to have a view on quality. This amendment really makes it easier for us to get a closer look at it. I regret that, because I do not know you as someone who would like to keep things away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u59	I'm trying to follow the Minister's line of thought. Schools will be inspected once every four years in the normal cycle. The inspection will then insert the thermometer into that school. Then the inspection will know what the state of affairs is, and will it not know whether the testing material is adequate? If that is not the case, then a risk-oriented programme is obvious, I would say. In my view, the problem of the national standardized tests is not so much that it is a guarantee of the quality of the test of children as it is a guarantee that the results can be compared. And that's what's killing the kids. That is what this amendment puts the finger on. The primate should be in the schools. Choose the one for it, fine. If they opt for another adequate system, which, of course, is also subject to inspection, then that is also excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u60	It's both. It is easy to keep a close eye on it and guarantee certainties in the way we set it up with each other, so that the good things happen in the schools. But if the inspection is to follow individually, every school, one by one, everyone must have an adequate picture of everyone and be able to intervene quickly if things do not go well, then in practice it will not work if you leave out that national guarantee. We'll need a lot more inspectors for that, too. We've even taken the four-year period a little bit wider. Some schools only get visits every five or six years, some faster. In this respect, we do not already have the right overview at school level. In addition, thanks to the information that comes from the schools at system level, we can follow what happens again, not for comparison, but for us as policy makers. For example, following the investigations we did in corona time, we saw that it was not only a problem that Corona was lagging behind in reading skills at a low SES, but also in a middle and high SES. We can send you on that right now. We are also doing this through the National Education Programme, which we have agreed to. Some of these elements are also included in the monitoring of the National Education Programme. We do not prejudice the freedom of choice. It will remain in force indefinitely. But we are now removing something that we are really going to regret and where we are already seeing problems in monitoring the quality of our education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u61	Your last interruption, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u62	Then I'm gonna hold onto it for a little while, because I suspect there's gonna be something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u63	You think Mr Van Meenen is going to bet his!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u64	Then I shall make the interruption that Mr Bishop might have wanted to do, because I agree with his point. The fact that it is complicated for the inspection to determine the quality of schools is the case with something that is not a cookie factory where you can measure very spreadsheet-like what the quality is. That's a problem. But the solution to this can of course never be to use an instrument that is not intended at all to determine the quality of schools and education, but only to say something about individual children. That is where I think the problem lies, and in any case this whole central test debate is at the heart of it. One of the reasons for looking at that whole system in 2013 was that the system of that final test had gradually turned into a kind of national beauty contest of schools with the RTL rankings, the Wedding Ranking Lists, you name it all. They are all based on tests of children who were only meant to say something about that individual child. Karen Heij also says a lot about this in her thesis. Doesn't the Minister agree with me that Bishop's amendment, which I am also under, removes that stinger? That says: no matter how complicated it is, do not use the instrument "kids test" improperly for measuring the quality of schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u65	There's two sides to it. First of all, it is important that, also from the system of responsibility we have to follow the quality of schools, we should, of course, focus on the importance of each individual pupil and ensure that we guarantee it, also from the responsibility that we have at national level. That's what we do with standardized tests. We do this by asking that Ivs keys are linked to the reference frameworks of language and arithmetic. This is going to disappear in this way, but he proposed to do so in 2013 in an earlier amendment tabled by Mr Bishop. That is to say that this is not a new debate. But then he was right on the other side, because that's when he wanted to make that connection. The moment we find out that this may not be the case, it may not have to be malicious or unwilling at all, it may be too late. Children may then have experienced the consequences in the meantime. It doesn't have to be, but it can be. And of course we want to avoid that as much as possible. We, as legislators, are also simply responsible for doing the right things, including in our regulations. The second is that, in itself, it is not illogical for us to want to know what the quality is from our national responsibility, just looking at the thousands of schools across the country. Then these standardized sources of information simply provide us with a lot of information, not to compare schools, but to know at system level how the children are doing, how they are doing with Group 3 and what is happening in Group 8. In short, that's how we know. Those are reports you'd like from me, too. You even asked me to take this into account in the National Education Programme in the monitoring exercise. You just want some really good information. It must also be unambiguous. It doesn't have to be interpreted differently if it's from another side. That is what this amendment is going to do... Well, let me put it this way: the responsibility we have nationally, but also in terms of what we ask of our inspection, is largely taken out of the law. I see that as a huge impoverishment, including for supervision. I ask you once again, although you may have already done so: look at the State of Education and what the inspection has returned from its system of responsibility. We gave her that responsibility by law, to oversee it. The inspection indicates what they're running into. Sometimes they don't really know what's going on in the country at some point. That was also a result of the loss of the final test. We have a responsibility to each other for all of this. That brings me to the question by Mr Peters, co-signator of the amendment. He says, "I'd like a learning culture." A learning culture means that you are open to this kind of information, and you want to have it and use it. By the way, we do this through the NRO. You know that. Schools also get the information back from secondary education. Mr Segers asked for that. This has been regulated by the law only recently, so we must now follow to what extent that means something to them, in that learning culture, so that they can make adjustments if necessary. That is what we are following, but at least we have now arranged very well for it to be done at all schools. This kind of information, too, what we see happening in the schools, we have a clear view of it, when it comes to the way we bring out our information, but also to what we see from other schools, is really part of the learning culture that we see and which we cannot continue to promote enough. That is why I am very pleased that this is one of the effective interventions in the national education programme. I myself note that a lot of schools are now working on these kinds of parts and are trying to invest money in such a way that they can develop further and that they can grow further. Mr. Chairman. Then Karen Heij's dissertation. I have not been a paranimph and I have not taken part in the debate on this, but I have read a lot about it. I didn't read the dissertation in full myself, but I did get reports on it. In my ministry, she was also spoken to in person. What struck me most perhaps Mr.Van Meenen took that out too, and otherwise Mr.Kwint did, who is also early to say that she says that we need our curriculum much sharper. It's too general. She says that we need to formulate our curriculum much more precisely because the assignments to education are too general and too vague, which has consequences. She does indeed have views about tests and how to use them, even when it comes to the picture of the future. It's okay. We have a free science, so she put it on paper in her own way. These kind of dissertations, I think, are important to keep the focus on each other. Of course, more dissertations have been written on these subjects and there are also many master studies. If you're gonna google a little, you're gonna come across a lot. That's good. Let us keep each other sharp on these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u66	Minister, may I ask you whether you are going to give an opinion on the amendment to item No 1 in the first period? 9 of Bishop c.s.?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u67	Mr President, I would like to ask you, at the end, about the follow-up to these amendments. Mr. Chairman. Then the school guide and the recording of it. Of course, if it were just a paper letter, it would be insufficient, but it is important that we show the parents the way and that they know where to find it. A school guide is an obligation and now it is also important to know what the procedures are for the school advice. The inspection looks at this; he looks at how it works in practice. These are all subjects that can be discussed during school visits. If it is only paper, it is of course not enough, but it really helps parents if they know the way and if that information is clearly available to them. In the letter of amendment, which I think you have also noticed, we have tightened the requirement on this point to an active obligation to communicate. So not just: here's a book. No, at this point, parents must be actively approached and told to take this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u68	Mr. Chairman. For Mrs Westerveld's question on the 10-14-educated pilot, may I refer you to the final report I recently sent to the Chamber? That only happened a few weeks ago. This shows that nice steps have been taken, but we really need to go further. But we have done good things with that during this period. Then there is Mr De Hoop's question about adapting the CXC. That is not necessary, because Article 4 of the decision already provides for pupils to be allowed to move on to education in the European Netherlands under conditions. We have also discussed this with the schools that are going to be affected by this, which I myself have visited and which I still have warm memories of. In principle, therefore, we have arranged for pupils to be guaranteed access to education in the European Netherlands. You don't have to make a motion for that anymore. Maybe it was crazy already, but I think you can do it with what I said about this. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have most of the questions... we have even got another chairman; the first chairman, I must say. Here's what I want to ask the Chamber. I have also received amendments which I still have to give an opinion on. I might need a little time to think about that. In any case, I would like to put that opinion on paper, including the amendments I have already delivered an opinion on. There's a few left. I also note that the Court has raised a number of issues very fundamentally with regard to what is the basis of this law. I would also like to make that a little shorter, but also firm in a letter to you. For this reason, I would ask that the second deadline be kept at a time to be specified, so that I can give you that information and I can also make the final assessment of the amendments on paper, with the justification, perhaps a little more extensive than was possible at this time, including Mr Kwint's amendment. That may not be right next week, because that will require something, but I hope that we will not be able to continue the debate in this beautiful place as soon as possible after the recess, but in another place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u69	Let me look at the Chamber to see if this Minister's proposal is supported to postpone the second term until after the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u70	I think that this is indeed a good proposal because we find during the discussion that the readings on how far-reaching some of the proposals are are quite apart. I would ask the Minister to explain in detail where he sees these major implementation problems on my amendment, and also how he makes the problems of the last few years he has involved even more in relation to this proposal, because that was not clear to me in all honesty in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u71	I have, of course, made a very sincere attempt to inform Mr Kwint, but I do think it is a good thing that that was why I also proposed to put it on paper once more. Thank you for supporting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u72	I'll take a look at the other members.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u73	The Minister actually saves me from my second term, because he has said so many sensible things that have got me doubting. So I'm glad I'm getting some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u74	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u75	I shall now request a vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u76	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u77	Well, no. This seems to me to be a sensible proposal. I do have a question about the timing of the preparation that schools themselves need, because it is about next spring. How about a little bit of time? I would like to hear more of that, perhaps now, perhaps in the letter. But further support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u78	I'll report that in the letter, too. I might also be able to see if things that we want to put into effect as soon as possible are going to happen. For example, I am thinking of a number of very practical things, if they are not otherwise laid down in the law, they may already be able to communicate with the schools. But I'll let you know in a letter first. Because, of course, I want you to have knowledge of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u79	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u80	I don't have a problem with that. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u82	Support for the Minister's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u84	I don't have a problem with it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u86	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u87	Then I thank the Minister. We are going to plan the second term of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u88	I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment. We shall now proceed to another debate on chromium-6.
