ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on the fight against crime and organised crime/undermining. That two-minute debate comes in a week of a terrible attack on a journalist, Peter R. de Vries. In this context, I would like briefly to give the Minister the floor before we begin the Chamber's contribution. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. While we stand here and are together, my thoughts are with Peter R. de Vries. A cowardly attack hit him hard. I sympathize with his family and friends. I can't make any statements about the investigation. When there is room and reason for this, I will do so towards your Chamber immediately. As long as I can remember, Peter R. de Vries finds injustice. He cares about victims and next of kin. But he also keeps us, the authorities, sharp. By always being critical and persistent, Peter is making a major contribution to our democratic rule of law. I would like to remind you that, thanks to him, the review procedure in our criminal law has become more just. And so there are more examples. The attack on his life shows once again what we have known for years: in the criminal circuit there has been widespread violence and unscrupulousness in recent years. But we can't let it scare us off. We are facing a difficult task in order to bring the ruthless crime that has arisen in recent years to a permanent halt. We must continue to work on this with each other; a long-term task, for the government, but also for all of us as a society. The motto of Peter R. de Vries is: rather die standing than living on your knees. As a society, let us never bow to criminals. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u3	Thank you. We are now going to the Chamber, with Mrs Michon-Derkzen of the VVD as the first speaker. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for his fine and fair words about Peter R. de Vries. My thoughts and those of my group are also with him. We asked the Minister yesterday at the procedural meeting to inform us at an appropriate time. I'm assuming we'll talk about the case later. Thank you, at least, to the Minister. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas undermining crime acts as a concrete rot for our society and needs to be effectively addressed;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet is setting up a Multidisciplinary Intervention Team to tackle undermining but that more clarity is needed as to how this partnership or independent entity will relate to existing services to combat undermining crime;]] [[considers that the MIT complements, and should not replace, well-functioning services that fight undermining crime;]] [[invites the Cabinet to share the MIT's draft institutional decision with the Chamber in advance, specifying how the MIT will relate to existing services so that the Chamber can express its views on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Michon-Derkzen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-320]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u5	My second motion is on Whatsapp fraud. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that last year there was a sharp increase in friend-in-emergency fraud and that this resulted in an average of €300 damage per person;]] [[noting that the government, together with the Dutch Association of Banks, is providing information to prevent victimisation, but still has insufficient effect;]] [[Considering that this has a major impact on the victim, as well as other forms of online fraud, but that this does not yet have a coulance framework such as spoofing in the form of bank help desk fraud;]] [[calls on the cabinet to engage with Dutch banks in order to establish a framework of assistance for boyfriend-in-emergency fraud for victims in good faith who have reported to the police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Michon-Derkzen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-321]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two days after the brutal attack on Peter R. de Vries, he still fights for his life. And all this time his loved ones are going through hell. I would therefore like to begin by expressing our condolences and wish them every success at this time on behalf of my entire group. Because first of all, this is a father, a friend and a loved one. A man whose motto "On ganged knee is no way to be free" is literally and figuratively written on the body. At the moment we can only hope that this quirky and characteristic man, an excellent journalist, will survive this. My compliments on the speedy action of the police and the D.A.'s office, which now puts two suspects in jail. I would also like to thank Minister Grapperhaus for the speedy information he has given to the Chamber. In the letter he writes about monitoring and securing the system's reinforcement and informs him to expect the opinion on it by 1 October at the latest. Now I can imagine that we will be discussing this well before that time, as Mr Michon mentioned. So I would ask the Minister to take that into account in his agreement with the evaluation committee. Then I mean the timing of that letter. Mr. Chairman. Today we would talk about organised crime and undermining, but it is still unclear from what angle the attack that was committed comes from. Undermining the rule of law is by definition an attack on a journalist, an unscrupulous attack on the free speech. The free word that we also use every day in this Chamber and which we must all stand up for. Lawyers, journalists, all those who uphold our free rule of law must know that we are right behind them. It should not matter what profession you have, everyone should be able to do their job in freedom and security. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u7	Thank you. Mr Van Nispen, SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The attack on Peter R. de Vries shocked us all. Our thoughts are of course with him, with his family members and with his colleagues. It is premature to say much now, because we still know so little about the how, the why and the "what now." Let me just say this. I hear the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice and Security say, including in the media, that they believe that the fight against organised crime needs to be stepped up, that this is an important issue for formation and that more investment needs to be made. I'll find some of that, because how long have they had the chance? Prime Minister Rutte has had ten years to do more about it. How many times have we made proposals to invest more? In the Rutte I and II Cabinets, a lot of savings have been made on security. I think it's a lot to say right now that things have to be different. Last Tuesday, a motion from us was voted down which suggested that we invest more in justice and security. That was last Tuesday afternoon. The minister didn't betray that motion and the chamber didn't bite. Now we hear the Minister say that much more needs to be invested. Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to table a motion on this right now. I'm not doing that. I told you, it's premature to speculate now, so I'm not going to. Here's what I want to say. I said that last Tuesday afternoon, I said it last week, I said it two weeks ago, and I said it a month ago. I want more investment in the Justice budget. That is why I am going to look him in the eye and ask him to do everything he can to step up the fight against organised crime. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is more investment in the future budget in the police, in the Public Prosecutor's Office and in the judiciary. I do have a very different motion on the supervision of the trust sector. That has to do with taking criminal money. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Dutch trust sector many thousands of billions of euros are involved but De Nederlandsche Bank only monitors this sector with about 20 fte;]] [[Whereas trust offices have a so-called gatekeeper role and in this capacity must do everything possible to keep criminals out of the door and not give them a chance to close and launder criminal money;]] [[considers that the current supervision of the trust sector leaves much to be desired;]] [[calls on the government to invest heavily in more and better supervision of the trust sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-322]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Nice words from the minister about Peter R. de Vries and the attack on his life. As a fraction of JA21, we also think of him. The Minister gave a fair analysis on television of the battle to be waged. We have a proposal for that which we are presenting to the Chamber today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses her horror at the shocking and repulsive attack on crime reporter Peter R. de Vries;]] [[Whereas organized (drug) crime seriously disrupts our country and poses a potential danger to every Dutchman;]] [[Whereas the deep-seated influence of serious (drug) crime undermines society and must be strongly combated;]] [[calls on the government to send a letter to the Chamber in the shortest possible time, presenting additional proposals to further intensify our fight against organised crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Eerdmans, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Haga and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-323]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u11	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Kuik, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u12	Mr President, thank you. I agree with the Minister's words. Our group is also shocked. I think everyone's working on it and having a bad feeling. In mind, we are with him and his loved ones. Crime in the Netherlands is hardening and criminals seem to have nothing to do with it anymore. The Minister sent a letter yesterday afternoon in response to the gruesome act. In it, the Minister writes that the committee that monitors and protects the system is coming up with recommendations in October. The system of guarding and securing can literally be of vital importance to people. Indeed, we see an overall deterioration in the undermining crime. In the debate we therefore discussed, for example, the fruit company in Hedel. It is more than urgent to put this system in order. That is why I ask the Minister whether the report and the recommendations cannot be completed sooner. Could this be done by September and is the Minister further prepared to come up with a comprehensive policy response to the report, so that it is clear to the House of Representatives and the country whether and what is needed to get the system in order? Hopefully we can talk shortly afterwards based on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u13	Thank you. So much for the contribution of the Chamber. I'm suspending for a few moments or can the Minister answer directly? Yeah, he can when I see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u14	Mr. Chairman. First, I will deal with the questions that have been raised quickly and then I will deal with the motions. The first question is that of Mr Van der Werf and Mr Kuik on the committee's report on the strengthening of surveillance and security. It is, of course, an independent advisory committee, but I promise that I will do everything I can to see whether this advisory report can reach us sooner within the limits of that independence. It would be very important for me to be able to discuss it with your Chamber a little earlier. I shall return to that in a moment when Mr Eerdmans' motion is being discussed. Mr van Nispen's point. Mr Van Nispen knows that from day one, 26 October 2017, this cabinet has released a lot of additional resources to fight organised crime. Then, over time, I asked the cabinet for even more resources. The thoughts that have been unfolded in the Pact for the Rule of Law, namely that more is needed, I also endorse. A lot of action has been taken. I have had an overview of all the actions carried out in recent times and reported in letters to your Chamber. I would be happy to send that overview to the Chamber at the beginning of next week, because that is very clear for everyone. It can only make the thought formation even better. I acknowledge that Mr Van Nispen is one of the Members of Parliament who is constantly calling for attention to be paid to this issue. I share that with him, and where I myself would not take any action, he urges me to do so. But this is a multifaceted monster that I said yesterday will be working on for ten years to get it all out of the way. That's miserable, but we'll do it together. The note with that overview is pure service, but I think that we should put together all the things that have been done again. We can then look at what we want to evaluate and what else we want to do. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the motions. The first motion in part No. 320 is about the Multidisciplinary Intervention Team. We debated this very well the other day, and I agree with the idea of the applicant that it is an addition and should not replace the well-functioning services that are already fighting undermining crime. In recent times, excellent examples of how they do things have been shown in the rural unit of the police and the national parquet. I think it is a good idea to share that draft institutional decision with your Chamber in advance. However, I assume that I will announce that at a time when: well, this is the draft decision and the idea is to make it a decision in 30 days' time. Then there is plenty of time, if your Chamber so wishes, to discuss that decision with each other. I'll leave the motion to part no. 320 therefore judges Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 321 by Mrs Michon-Derkzen, on this WhatsApp fraud, I have to advise against. Friend-in-emergency fraud does not involve banking fraud. There will be no abuse of banking products. Even if the victim acts in good faith, the victim makes the payment himself. It doesn't make sense, and it doesn't make any legal sense, to expect banks to take over the damage of that kind of scam. The financial burden of damage must first be recovered from the perpetrators and not from the banks. Moreover, since January 2021, banks have been providing victims with the naw data of fraudsters so that they can initiate civil proceedings against those fraud victims. That is something I have negotiated with the banks, even after consulting your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u15	The motion in part No. 321 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u16	I have one question about this. Can't you just say, even if you're in good faith, that you've been depositing money to someone, but that it wasn't meant to be, whether it was a wrong number or if, as in this case, it was a fraud? Can't you just say, "Can I have my own money back?" You say that the banks do not have to pay for the damage. But that person says, "I just gave money to someone, and I want that money, my money, back." Your way of explaining it makes it a little bigger than I actually meant. I just want whoever transferred that money wrong to get their own money back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u17	I think that is a sympathetic idea, but we must, of course, keep an eye on the relations, the contractual relations, between the parties. I would, however, like to say that I am going to have another conversation with the banks about how we can set up an additional security mechanism. But, as I have just said, the fact that someone who is in good faith is doing something that harms him does not mean that the person who has been merely facilitatingly involved in this is paying for that damage. There's nothing I can do about that. However, I would like to say that I am going to talk to the banks about this again, because that of the naw data I have also been able to get into conversations, also a little thanks to pressure from your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u18	Then the motion to part No. 322.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u19	Yeah, the motion to part No. 322 by Mr Van Nispen. I would like to say to Mr Van Nispen that this motion should be put to the House. There's a lot of things, I always notice, that fall into my wallet, but not this. I would therefore like to see whether the SP can bring it to the finance colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u20	Yeah, or can be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u21	I brought this up in the debate. I brought this up a year ago. I think it has something to do with pasting off crime money and mixing the underworld and the top world. It's a request to the government. I am not saying that this Minister should carry out the motion, and I am also fine with the Minister of Finance who is going to carry it out, but I would suggest that we vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u22	Can I say something about that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u23	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u24	On 9 September, my colleague from the Treasury and your Chamber held a debate on the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. I think it would be best to discuss it again and then put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u25	So you cannot provide this motion with an opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u26	Yeah, well, I guess I'll have to dissuade her. We shouldn't do that. That is a shame, because it is an understandable motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u27	Mr Van Nispen will think about it for a while. The motion in part No. 322 will therefore not be judged. Finally, the motion in part No. 323 by Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u28	Yes. I have a lot of sympathy for that motion. I would like to send a brief note on Monday of what has been done in recent years about measures and action against the undermining crime, but what has unfortunately been stagnated by corona. "Sending a letter to the Chamber": may I read that in such a way that "the government requests to send a letter to the Chamber immediately after the summer"? Why do I say "right after the summer"? That will then congruate, coincide with that report of the Committee on System Review to monitor and secure. It is a sensible time for me to put that into effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u29	Mr Eerdmans, a proposal from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u30	I understand you say after the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u31	Right after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u32	Right after the summer. Much is happening, but I am particularly concerned about what we see in terms of powers, perhaps also the penalties and the unorthodox means that we do not yet apply, but which you can think about. It is up to the Chamber to decide on this and perhaps to a next cabinet, but we must, I think, go further than we are doing on organised crime. I think that's what you want. Then it is not so important to me that it lasts a week or two longer, but it is almost necessary and above all a lot of new energy for the big issue, because we are indeed not ready for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u33	So you keep...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u34	In short, I am indeed holding up that motion, but this is an excellent addition that I can also deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u35	Yes, and I would like to say this about this: the energy is still present with me, despite the missionary status, to go on with this. Mr President, you will have that overview on Monday or Tuesday. Then we also see a number of things that have happened in recent times; we put that in a row. And then we'll send that letter right after the summer where it says what business we really need to go through. Then we'll see what that has to do with other consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u36	So Mr. Eerdmans is holding his motion? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u37	Yes. But I'm okay with it, because the crime isn't missionary and it doesn't go with recess. We often say that, but in this case I am glad that the Minister's attitude is that this is and remains absolutely urgent, so I embrace that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u38	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u39	Thank you to Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-50.u40	On the other three motions for resolutions, we will hear what Mr Van Nispen is doing with his motion... will be voted on later this evening.
