ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the initiative proposal 34325, the proposal for a law of Mr Karabulut amending the Participation Act and some other laws relating to the introduction of a displacement test. We are now ready for the answer of the initiator and the Minister in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking all the senators Mr Van Gurp of the GroenLinks Group, Mrs Sent of the Labour Party, of course Mr Kox of my own party, the SP, Mr Van Kesteren of the CDA, Mr Van der Burg of the VVD, Mrs Stienen of the D66 Group, Mr Raven of the OSF, Mr Schalk of the SGP and Mr Van Paren of the Nanninga Group, and Mrs Huizinga of the Christian Union for the congratulations to my address and the kind words about our initiative on improvements for workers and jobseekers with low paid jobs or looking for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u4	It's Mr. Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Look, there you go. I wanted to adapt very much. I'll keep an eye on it, Mr. Chairman. It is my honour and pleasure to have my last debate as a representative of the people, at least for the time being, with your members of the First Chamber in this medieval historical hall full of royal characteristics. I notice that the electoral fever has increased slightly here in this Chamber: all kinds of freeages, thinking about the formation; beautiful. But it's not nearly as bad as it is in the House of Representatives. And, of course, it's all very courteous. I have followed your debate and input with great interest. I have no difficulty in complying with your rules: courtesy. Mr. Chairman. It has been recalled by several members that we have been working on this bill for a number of years. In dealing with the law in the first term, I suspended it as initiator because of the need for further investigation and the need for further information from your Chamber. That was indeed in 2018. I wish I'd been here before. It's been too long. Members asked for an investigation into the prevention of displacement and why it took so long. Those are legitimate questions. I apologize for the long wait. It was a difficult search, perhaps an impossible mission, in addition to the busy work that MPs have of course also. I'll explain. The government doesn't keep national records of displacement. The VNG has no data and no investigation. The Ministry doesn't keep track of anything. The CBS doesn't keep data either. That makes every investigation you'd like to conduct in this area flawed. However, employment rates are maintained. However, no relevant conclusions on displacement can be drawn from the figures that are being kept, the employment figures. Scientists with whom we have spoken indicated that this makes every research in this field problematic. The unemployment rates of The Hague and Rotterdam, for example, could be compared, but the CBS rightly warns that differences in unemployment rates cannot be attributed to displacement. There are many other local factors that can play a role in local unemployment disparities. Moreover, according to the CBS, in a city like Rotterdam much more than 300 jobs have to be replaced before only 0.1% difference can be measured by the CBS. Anyway, Mr. Chairman, I ran into all sorts of problems trying to figure out and deport research for your Chamber. In general, I can conclude that the research in this area is very lean. SEO made a valiant attempt, I shall come back to that later, but had to admit that no real conclusions can be drawn from that investigation. As I said, what you and I would like to do is not possible at the moment, simply because there are no records. In my view, this is all the more in favour of the present law with a clear definition and criteria to be tested, which makes the results measurable. That doesn't mean we don't have an investigation. 'Cause of course I'm going through the fire for you. We want to share as much data and data as possible with you. Looking for what I could do for you, I've been talking to the FNV. They have moved heaven and earth and provided a valuable report in my view, as offered to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u6	I don't understand the "so." You say that there is no scientific research available anywhere and that the VNG and the Ministry are not keeping up. No one's keeping track of it, so that pleads for the present law. But the present law is based on the assumption that there is a problem, when you say that no one can prove that there is a problem. Can you tell me more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u7	Thank you for this very relevant question. I shall come back to this in more detail in the further reply, but I will give you a first brief reply. The type of scientific research we were looking for at first is not there, because it is not kept up to date. And it is not kept, because there are no clear criteria and definition and because it is left to municipalities. Since all municipalities deal with this differently, you cannot compare it with each other, especially over time. That's the problem. That doesn't mean you can't say anything about it at all and there's no record of it. In other words, if we decide to test for displacement and to apply a clear criterion and definition, as I propose, then that can be investigated in a while. Mr. Chairman. Where was I? At the FNV and the request from a number of municipalities! I'm going back to the SP investigation, at least to the eleven local examples we've offered. That was only to give you an impression of how a number of municipalities deal with the displacement test. So that's not about the extent of displacement, it's about how they deal with it. Mr. Van der Burg, you can do whatever you want with this. There is no need to draw any major conclusions about this either. I can appreciate that local representatives are actively looking for answers. We only wanted to share those answers with you, as an additional service, to give you an impression of municipal practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u8	Mrs. Sent? He's doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u9	I like to hear myself louder, I think. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u10	I'll turn it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u11	Perhaps Mrs Karabulut will speak about what comes out of the research of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the SEO Economic Research. Because the Central Planning Bureau states that there is little empirical evidence and SEO also states that the evidence is limited. Well, I'd like to hear what she's going to say about that, but now I'm really curious about her interaction with the VNG. Did she have any conversations with the VNG? Is the VNG prepared to provide evidence? What are the experiences with this social enterprise performance, with Divosa's hand-off? I would very much like to hear from Mrs Karabulut what she knows about what is happening at municipal level via the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u12	Yes. I shall come back to both questions in greater detail, but I would nevertheless like to serve Mrs Sent directly. Of course, I speak with congregations and aldermen, especially in the time when this law came into being. I and we as a group have, of course, asked many written questions about this. So it wasn't through direct contact, then we have been through indirect contact through the Ministry very often... and several members also referred to.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And I have indeed been very well informed about municipal practices, which does not mean that the position of the VNG is quite frankly that I have not been in touch with the VNG recently, and I was not aware of this. And I've been in touch with aldermen who functioned within that VNG framework. But I will come back to the VNG's objections in greater detail. So as far as the eleven local examples are, and more than that, or larger, you shouldn't make them SP's. In response to the same examples, Mrs Sent had a specific question about the municipality of Leiden. You asked: the municipality states that there is no question of a displacement test because it is only about additional labour. Well, we only observe, and we make that out of the answers of the municipality of Leiden, that there is no displacement test. That is the only thing, and in that sense I do not want to judge how the municipality of Leiden functions. I didn't mean to. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the individual answers of your Members, on a number of issues that many of your Members have asked questions about. I'll do that thematically in three blocks. The first is proportionality: how big is the problem, and is this law necessary? Secondly, subsidiarity: is this law going to solve the problem or can it simply be left to municipalities, as is the case now? To end with the third and final point, a point of substance: is the law enforceable? I have heard the concerns well and listened carefully, and I hope I can answer your questions and take care away. The first point. The central question to which all the groups were actually asking attention: how big is the problem of displacement now, is the problem really there and does it require the law? I would like to answer this question in two parts. First of all, I would like to comment on the results and questions that your members have appointed regarding existing investigations, including the SEO investigation. Then I want to take you to what is available, and what we do know about displacement. We have, of course, had an evaluation of the Participation Act of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. It concludes that the objectives of the Participation Act have hardly been achieved and the law in this sense has not been fully successful. However, it also concludes that commitments and financial incentives are hardly linked to less benefit dependency. So there are no more people from the assistance as a result of this law, just as there are in return and other obligations. The SCP's own investigation shows that "for the withdrawal from the assistance it does not seem to matter', they write, "whether municipalities impose many or few obligations on recipients of assistance to speed up integration into the labour market'. The other important studies on displacement or extent of displacement do not explicitly address this research. The Minister writes in answers to our questions the same about the investigations of the CPB and the SCP. He writes about this. "The study of CPB and SCP does not examine separately the instruments characteristic of the Participation Act for possible displacement effects. However, SEO does pay explicit attention to instruments of the Participation Act, such as labour cost subsidies and consideration, and the circumstances in which the use of these instruments could lead to displacement. This investigation does not relate to wage costs subsidies and compensation and displacement. In spring 2019, my predecessor, also on the basis of these results, organised an expert session with scientists to answer the question of whether and how research on the extent of displacement can be carried out. On this basis, my predecessor has concluded that such research is not yet possible because data to establish displacement should be better available than is currently the case." There he is again! "A longer period must also be available in order to arrive at reliable rulings." Mr Van Gurp, Mrs Sent and others also referred to SEO's research, which would show that displacement is hardly a problem. "Offsets, competition and displacement" is the name of this research. In that research, only the consideration and social return are investigated, and not the many reintegration pathways, for example. That is the first point I would like to draw your attention to. It is a very limited study on today's subject, namely displacement. Moreover, the authors write that no conclusions can be drawn from the figures. "It should be stressed that the above analysis of developments in the number of welfare and WW beneficiaries cannot in any way demonstrate that displacement is or is not taking place as a result of the consideration provided for in the Participation Act. This requires a more in-depth analysis of the inflow and outflow from the assistance and WW that can be related at municipal level to municipal policy regarding the consideration in the Participation Act. In order to have sufficient variation between municipalities, municipal policy should be defined as concrete and precise as possible." I have already given you the response of the CBS in the first instance. Mr Van Pareren recalled the point made by SEO that the criteria contained in our legislative proposal could, in particular, hinder reintegration. At least that question raises SEO. I think it will have the opposite effect: more focus on sustainable reintegration, fewer revolving door constructions and, of course, checks on displacement. I therefore do not share SEO's concerns on this point. Then what is it? From research from 2011 I admit directly that it is a somewhat older research project of Research for Policy, commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, it appears that displacement is perhaps the most important unintended effect of activating reintegration. Research for Policy researchers estimate that displacement is generally around 25% based on previous studies. Then there is a study by the FNV, in which a number of qualitative studies and essays are also cited. In the research of the FNV, the union zooms out research by researcher Paul de Beer. The net effects of activation measures are generally small and/or undetectable. Despite the fact that the number of people employed has increased, the amount of work available in hours per capita of the potential labour force has declined on balance. I am not saying that this is a hard fact that demonstrates displacement, but it shows the circumstances, the context, the type of jobs and the part of the labour market that we are talking about. There are too few jobs for a lot of people. Another important and frequently asked question concerns quantity: how big is the problem? The short and honest answer is: we do not know exactly. There's no other way. You will understand that if you have listened to the foregoing, and you have. But we know from the FNV report that was delivered and specially prepared for you, that 17,000 beneficiaries worked for more than three months without a salary in a SW company. This is a doubling compared to 2015. For the sake of clarity, these are not people with disabilities. They're people who want a real paid job. And we are not talking about the healthcare sector, where tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs, which are often filled with welfare recipients in the context of, for example, compensation. It was written in the newspaper around Christmas about a scandal that had to do with the Participation Act. Again, it was a major scandal. I am referring to the message that I believe a lady in the municipality of Wijdemeren had to pay back €7,000, because her mother sometimes helped her by buying her groceries. Then Jasper van Dijk of the SP launched the hotline on the Participation Act. At that reporting point, 40% of the 600 reporters indicate that they have to work without receiving a wage. And about 47% of them have to do that for months or longer. So it's not a matter of just working a short time to see if you're functioning. No, it's a time of months or more. The average figure for what was learned in a reintegration pathway was a 1.6 on a scale from 0 to 10. Thus, learning does not necessarily seem to be central to these pathways. There are hundreds of detectors. Many have expressed hearts to put an end to working without wages and repression. In addition, of course, there have been investigations and hotlines of the FNV and the CNV, including hundreds of reports and the 25% displacement rate I mentioned earlier. You can find all this in the documents that are part of this bill. These are the numbers we do have. So with a cautious assessment, we are talking about thousands of cases. In my view, that number is large enough to bring about legislation and it is far too big to ignore it. To quote Mrs Sent: everyone matters. I would like to add that anyone who loses his job by displacement is one too many. We have talked in the past year about front-line workers who are simply working very hard in the services. They often work at low wages and these jobs are often surrounded by great uncertainty. These people often go into and out of welfare. If we organize further competition for low-paid jobs, this is, of course, a matter to be taken into account. And not only that: we should act on it as well. Despite the fact that we do not know the exact size, it is indeed a large group of people. I would also like to point out that there are, of course, more laws and rules for matters whose exact size is not exactly known, but of which we have clearly defined the standard. I refer, for example, to tax evasion or trafficking in human beings. Finally, as part of this section on quantity, I would like to point out that a single definition, as in the present legislative proposal, and a review framework make it significantly easier to measure. Mr Schalk asked me if the FNV study was independent. I believe that the facts listed in the report are crystal clear, just like the interests of the largest trade union in the Netherlands. These are those of the workers, the job seekers and the pensioners. But the union also represents the interests of Petra and Cindy, for example. I would like to give these two concrete examples. It is women who want to work, it is women who want to be economically independent. They're women who can barely keep their heads above water sometimes. Petra is an aid beneficiary from Amsterdam. She followed a learning process from the assistance, where she worked unpaid for four days a week as a helper in a nursing home for two years. At the same time, she went to school one day a week to get the diploma for helping in care. She got that diploma after two years and would finally get that job in the nursing home. Then the cut came and the job passed by her nose. But six months later, the municipality ordered her to fill out a holding place. She had to work as a helping person in her own nursing home, with a degree but still without pay. Whoever had to work without pay is Cindy, another welfare worker. For years, she's been working up and down through social work, but without pay. The last time she worked there, I talked to her extensively last weekend. She had to prick bulbs for three months, work that bring in social services for disabled people, but which also non-work-disabled people like Cindy are working on. With one difference: the disabled person gets, quite rightly, pay for it, and Cindy doesn't. While she has diplomas and can and wants to work, she is treated unfairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u13	It was Mr Van Gurp who said: no one in this room will be for repression. So that's not up for discussion. Mrs Karabulut now comes up with examples of work without pay. That is not automatic displacement, because the idea behind the Participation Act is that a return must also be provided. Your party's having a hard time with that. I mentioned this morning the example of your successor, who therefore even left the board. But delivering a return is not the same as displacement. You consistently call that "working without wages." I think that, in the context of the purity of the debate, it is good to make that distinction. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u14	Yeah, sure. I certainly don't want to have that discussion here right now. I'd be happy to do that another time with Mr Van der Burg. I know how much he likes discussions with SP'ers, because that makes the differences clear. But the discussion here is not about the consideration. It is not a question of whether or not we should expect anything from those seeking assistance, because that is what we are allowed to do. They have a duty to get to work when there is work. The discussion here is about the fact that when you work in a normal relationship of authority and contribute to production, so it is not about volunteering or a learning process, but about real production as these women do, on the other hand, that you should earn at least the statutory minimum wage or the associated collective wage. I would like to mention these examples in order to clarify what people are dealing with. In the case of social employment, this is sometimes at the expense of the work of the people for whom the sw has been set up. That is indeed displacement, in the case of the jobs in care that have been cut off and filled by people like Petra. While she works for it and even obtained a diploma, she is then fired. These are all undesirable practices. That should be tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u15	In the example of Petra, who obtained her diploma, was cut off and came back six months later, I stayed. I stood up because then Mrs Karabulut consistently started talking about working without pay. But the basis of the Participation Act is that a consideration can be requested. This also means the component working without pay, as long as there is no displacement. Behind me is the leader of the SGP, who always rightly points out that words matter in the debate. That's why I started with "working without pay." That is not the point of discussion. The point of discussion here is displacement. That's what Mr. Van Gurp and I, and everyone else, agree: we can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u16	That's right, and those two are very common.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u17	I would like to return to Mrs Karabulut's comments on the FNV report. I have a specific question: is that an independent investigation? You were here a few years ago. You have just given a very exposé on quantity and proportionality. A lot of that data was also more or less known back then. Maybe it's the latest numbers. But then it was said by yourself: okay, I'm going to look for an independent investigation to see if the bill is actually needed. In the end, we have an FNV study which states: we support Mrs Karabulut's research. So my question is: is that an independent investigation? Or do you say, well, no, it just helps to support my law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u18	It's an FNV study and it's still an FNV study. In that sense, it is not an investigation as we have tried to achieve. The reason for this and the impossibility I have tried to explain. It's an FNV investigation. I did offer it to you for the simple reason that I think it is very valuable, because it is based on objective statistics. Based on the FNV research you can also find a number of facts about displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u19	Thank you for that answer. That's crystal clear. This means that we can see that what you were planning in 2018 is not there and we cannot succeed. There is no independent investigation. We must do it with what is provided to us by the SP, by the FNV or by what you yourself have to contact with people you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u20	I think that's too easy and that it takes away from what is. I referred to earlier research which shows that there are 25% displacement effects. That was an investigation of Research for Policy, commissioned by the Ministry. Of course, I will come back to that later on, and I will come back to all kinds of findings from the Labour Inspectorate. We also have the data from many research projects, such as FNV, trade unions and research programmes, including ourselves, with facts about displacement. I tried to tell you what quantitative data we do have. In addition, I say quite honestly that we do not know exactly. But behind that lies, of course, the story that we cannot investigate because it is not kept up to date, despite the fact that we all agree that repression should not be allowed, that we do not want it and that it should be combated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u21	Mr Schalk, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u22	And last, Mr. Chairman. I certainly don't want to put it away too easily. I would just like to point out that it has not been possible to get the research you wanted done, when this process has been going on for six years and has stumbled into this Chamber three years ago. That says it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u23	That's what I've been trying to explain. Not only can't I do it, but the Minister and the scientists can't do it either. I didn't make the link for nothing and explained why it didn't work out. I think that if we agreed on fixed criteria and a clear definition, and they were worked out and included in the implementation, we would know a lot more in a few years' time. Then we can investigate it in several years. That is not possible now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u24	It's still a little bit gnawy. I shall continue with what Mr Schalk has brought in. Here's what I'm wondering. However, SEO Economic Research has carried out research into displacement in certain areas and has concluded that they do not find significant empirical evidence of it. Can these research methods applied by SEO Economic Research on these routes not be extended? I'm still struggling with the question of whether it's methodologically impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u25	That has been shown to me, and that has been demonstrated by the Minister after round tables. SEO himself says they'll try to explain it. At the same time they give a disclaimer and they say: you cannot draw conclusions from this. Then you should measure it at labour market region level. In addition, you must have a very clear map of the variety that can play in municipalities. That means it has to be defined. That's why I'm thinking: none of that can happen right now. We do have some facts. I think the urgency is there. The great thing is that if we took the Displacement Test Act, we could make it possible precisely in that way that we would be able to measure and keep track of it for the future. Then we just have stronger data in our hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u26	I have another very different question. Mrs Karabulut said that every paid job that is being replaced is one too many. I agree with her. But I also asked her partymate about the concerns of Cedris, Divosa, VNG and VNO-NCW. They say that places for people with a distance from the labour market are not created when there is a displacement test, so it becomes more difficult for that group of vulnerable people to participate in these kinds of pathways. Does she agree with me that this should be an important point of attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u27	Absolutely. I shall dwell on this in detail later. That's incredibly important. I think that's what we all want to do. Mr Van Kesteren of the CDA mentioned it a moment ago: not for nothing is there now, partly as a result of the evaluation of the Act of Participation and all kinds of developments in society and given the fact that disabled people are getting into very difficult jobs, are there being re-opening or re-launching of social services. It is not for nothing that a job agreement has been made to guide those groups to work. From the Lower House I can say that in the meantime, if they were not already convinced that they want to take care of this properly. I believe that this law can contribute to that. But above all, I shall try to explain to you in greater detail later that we do not want to interfere with these agreements on the implementation of the job agreement and the way in which they are implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u28	Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u29	This is a task that has also been allocated to the municipalities, through the Participation Act. So this would be a double. Do you recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u30	I acknowledge that this is a task of municipalities. I can also confirm that it remains a task of municipalities. The only thing we are doing with the legislative proposal before us is to create clarity and define 'displacement', because it is unclear what that is. A few simple, clear criteria, so that municipalities can take them with themselves and take them into account in their implementation. We therefore do not deprive municipalities of any responsibility. In fact, a few years ago I wanted to admit that I wanted to do a thorough overhaul of the Participation Act. You know that. Well, that wish comes naturally now; that's special about this time. But I didn't do that on purpose, for a number of reasons. The law had just been introduced. We had to wait for the evaluation. But I also didn't want to step into the responsibility of municipalities. So they retain that responsibility. We only give them tools to apply it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u31	The municipality has several institutions that control that, too. The municipality also has an interest in checking this, because it costs money, including municipal money. There is therefore a great importance for the municipalities to deal with it properly. They are thus already naturally encouraged to take their measures. In any case, you are not aware that it is a major problem. At least, there's no proof of that. You can't tell from numbers. There are no stories from the municipalities that it is very serious. Then why would we have to arrange something extra? I myself indicated this morning that in the municipalities where I asked for this, there is a very clear policy on this, with regulations and everything. Why don't you trust those municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u32	However, I would like to make it very clear that this should in no way be seen as mistrust towards municipalities. I have deep respect for all the performers, especially in these times of crisis, for all the work they do. In fact, I know how difficult municipalities are with all the tasks they have been transferred from the Empire, and we also note that not always enough resources have been given to municipalities to carry them out. I'm not gonna change that with this law. What this law does... The municipalities that are already doing it, fine. If they already have a displacement test, if they have already included it in their regulations and if it is working properly, then that is nothing more than a plume. I will come back to that later. But there are also municipalities that don't know, who don't check whether those acts are necessary because they don't know how to check for displacement, while the law says it's forbidden. What this law does is merely put an exclamation mark behind those articles in the law that prohibit displacement. Implementation remains with municipalities. I will come back to a number of specific concerns and questions in my further story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u33	I also have to deal with interest groups such as the VNG and Divosa. I have mentioned some of them and they have also been mentioned several times in the debate. They indicate that we may achieve the opposite. That would be a big risk if we passed that law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u34	At the risk of repeating myself later, I would like to answer this question. How is this key going to be performed? It will be necessary to develop this broad framework, the clarification, the definition by general administrative action. The minister has an important role to play in this, but even more important are the municipalities and the VNG. They will be involved in the implementation. If there are problems, this general measure of governance can be adapted. This will first be submitted to your Chamber and also to the House of Representatives. In that sense, I want to remove that fear. Secondly, as I have just mentioned: the job deal. This law does not apply to, as they call it, the most vulnerable people in the labour market, those with disabilities. Thirdly: municipalities that already do good work, fine. Fourth, Divosa. It's helped me a lot. The fact that Divosa has produced a manual has to do with the fact that we have indeed been discussing this issue for several years in the Lower House and also in the Upper Chamber and are looking for instruments to do it right. I have just been inspired by, for example, the good example that Divosa himself mentions. I want to remind Harrie the street sweeper in The Hague; his story will also know and recognize everyone. He had a job as a street sweeper, he got fired, and then he had to do the same job without pay. Well, there's been a lot of discussion and debates about that. A protocol was then drawn up in consultation with employers and trade unions. And a lot of criteria that we set out in this law, I recognize from that protocol. So I hope that this way I will make it clear to you that this is not a law directed against municipalities, or it was drafted because we would distrust municipalities. On the contrary, the law is right to help municipalities move forward. And there's another extra thing, which is that we also have to watch from people's point of view how it's going to work out. We really have many examples of this, but we also have a number of facts and figures about it. Because it's not like we don't know anything. We cannot investigate it at a certain scientific level, but apart from that, the facts lie ahead of us. It is unfair, especially when it comes to the precarious jobs, the precarious jobs. People have to struggle in it year in, year out to survive and to find a job at all. It is unfair to create perverse incentives and additional competition in this particular segment. If we dare to take the step towards introducing a displacement test, which can be very practical without red tape, then I believe that this can also have a positive impact on a more secure labour market, on sustainable reintegration, and, of course, on removing the immense uncertainty that jobseekers and workers in this type of employment often have to deal with in the services. Not everything, but a very small part of that uncertainty is removed. And I think that removing that uncertainty is also worth a lot, also in view of the current discussion about all kinds of laws that we later have, on which we now find that they are working very hard. These are laws that have passed your Chamber as well. Those laws also show that perhaps we should have listened a little earlier to people's signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u35	My question is perfectly in line with Mrs Karabulut's speech. On page 95 of the report of SEO Economic Research, the conclusion contains a nice piece on social consequences of displacement. I am not going to read it all out, but the first sentence says: "Although displacement due to unequal competition occurs only on a modest scale in the Netherlands, its impact on individuals should not be underestimated." Later in the piece it is also about the social effects of displacement, so that on the one hand people may lose their jobs, but on the other hand people get a job or opportunities again. Here's what I'm wondering. There's an emotion underneath here, a sense of injustice, of uncertainty. That's what you see in the SCP report. These are people who do not have a very easy position in that labour market, who feel threatened quickly, by migrants, by migrant workers, by people with different training. My group is wondering: should we have a displacement test for this emotion of uncertainty? Or should we consider how to remove that feeling of injustice in another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u36	It's wonderful that you mention this, Mrs. Stienen. I think this is an issue that we could discuss in detail. Maybe we will, in another place and at another time. But today we are talking about preventing displacement. I think it is perfectly understandable and logical for people to become rather desperate when they are dealing with this. They simply work, but do not receive the wages that the other does. They lose their jobs because someone else is actually bypassing the laws and regulations we have agreed on, for example through the assistance. I feel a lot about that myself, and so do Mrs Stienen, but it is not just emotions, of course. One: we have agreed with each other that displacement of paid labour by unpaid labour should not be allowed. That's even in the law. And two: we have agreed every day, day in, day out in this country, which can use a little more civilisation occasionally, which we are all working hard on, that when you work, the legal minimum wage or collective wage is considered a bottom. As a bottom. What this is doing, thousands of cases, tens of thousands of cases, or ten cases, is sawing at that bottom and pushing and pulling at that bottom every time. That soil is also the soil of many people, workers and non-working people in the Netherlands, who go under. Maybe not for a few months, but after that, I will. So yes, emotion, absolutely, but it is also a real problem. I think it is precisely this test that can satisfy people's feelings as well as improve their immediate working and living conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u37	Furthermore, I think, on behalf of the D66 Group, that the report contains some good suggestions on how to deal with labour market displacement in a different way. This does not require a displacement test. But I am also very curious as to how the Minister will answer our question about which examples of how municipalities do. So I'm gonna wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u39	Mr Van Gurp, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u40	It's good for my back once in a while, Mr. Chairman. In that sense, I was helped by the turn of events that the interruptions took. I have a question about the execution. I would have liked to save it for the third block, but since the debate took a turn in the wake of the interruptions by my fellow Members, I would like to put it now. I hear Mrs Karabulut passionately argue that this is really only support for implementation and that this way, without much red tape, you can strengthen the labour market position of vulnerable workers. Of course, it's beautiful if it is. Then you have me with you. At the same time, we have letters from organisations which will be responsible for this implementation. They claim exactly the opposite. They say: it's going to be a lot of red tape, it's not helping us, and we're afraid that we're weakening the position of people who are dependent on participation paths. The main task of this Chamber is to assess the feasibility and consequences for the implementation of legislation. We are now faced with this dilemma, in which these two visions run counter to each other. We are being asked to vote on this. I feel powerless in that. I would like to ask the initiativer, as a matter of urgency, whether she would not be prepared to take one more step in the meantime and talk to VNG, Divosa, the UWV and Cedris, to take an execution test on the law and to inform us of the date on which it came. Then I can weigh it more well-founded. Maybe I'll make it worse than it is? Fine, then I shall have a very important objection that I now have against the law. Or is it perhaps much worse than you think? Then we really have to ask ourselves whether we should want to do this. Would you mind paying attention to that thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u41	Sure I do. I'm definitely gonna do that. I'm gonna give you a full answer to that. And I'll let you stand when you need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u42	I won't let you ask a question unless I tell you. How far along are you, Mrs Karabulut, with your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u43	Mr President, I had a few more examples, but I think that we have had an adequate exchange of views on this issue in this debate. I hope that I have been able to convince Mrs Huizinga and others of the need for the displacement test. That brings me to the second point: subsidiarity. Is this law gonna solve the problem? Not to be silly, but of course there's only one way to find out. That is by taking over the law and implementing it. But a more serious and comprehensive answer is as follows. The law is an effect of displacement and gives municipalities the tools to pre-check for displacement, with the aim of preventing it, of course, as stated in the Participation Act. But the law also fits within the system of the Participation Act. Mrs Stienen asked me to respond to her statement that the reports of FNV and SP do not prove that the articles against repression in the Participation Act are not being properly applied. Indeed, that causal link cannot be established. Mrs Stienen is certainly right about that. What the FNV's report and previous reports from, among other things, my group do prove is that displacement occurs and a lot of damage is being done to the people who are affected. In this way, we can conclude that the review is inadequate. I have also had an exchange of views with the leaders, with this minister, but above all with the predecessors. Fortunately, we are not alone on this point either. That is certainly the case when we refer to the findings of the Labour Inspectorate as the Inspection SZW, which are currently looking into this issue. In the investigation of the Inspection SZW, it concludes that there is often hardly any active role of the city council in the development of policy against and control of displacement. The inspection advises municipalities to better anchor reintegration policies and goals through e.g. regulations or policy papers. This law, which is now before us and which we are discussing with each other, ties in seamlessly with it. Following many questions about, a series of surveys and evaluation of the Participation Act has shown that the Participation Act currently does not provide sufficient tools to combat displacement effectively. This may not apply to all municipalities, but at least it is flawed. That brings me to the feasibility, the third point. On the one hand, there are the reactions of Cedris, VNG and VNO-NCW and, on the other hand, those of the ABU and the OSB, the association of cleaning organisations or, in short, the cleaning bosses. The latter two are in favour, simply because displacement leads to unfair competition, they suffer from it and they oppose it. SMEs are taking a kind of middle position. Cedris, VNG and VNO-NCW are concerned. The main concerns lie in the concerns about the vulnerable groups covered by the job agreement and its feasibility. Many of your members referred to these topics in their contributions. Mr Kox asked me to respond to his question as to whether the employment agreement for people with disabilities would be included in the displacement test, as VNG and Cedris assume. I can be brief and clear about this: this must be based on a misunderstanding. In the direction of Mr Van Kesteren and others, I would like to say that the importance of the job agreement is the creation of more opportunities, as are both our political groups and others in the House of Representatives. We also appreciate the commitment of employers on this point and the initiative that Mr Van Kesteren is chairman of: The Normal Case. At least in my time, I have often had discussions with the Social Affairs spokesperson there. Also at the time of the treatment in the Lower House the concern was that the displacement test would make execution of the job appointment impossible. That fear and care I can take away here. Jobs and pathways resulting from the job agreement are not covered by this proposal. This means that the pilot placement of people with disabilities from the job appointment, if used, does not have to be subject to prior testing. I hope that I have made it clear that the job agreement and the routes set up in that context do not fall within the scope of this legislative proposal. I think that would remove one of the two main objections. That does not take away the other concerns about feasibility. I take it very seriously, because I tried to express it just now, too, and I very much appreciate what our executives, municipalities and municipal officials are doing. I did not consider that an execution test was necessary in the first instance, because, as many have said, municipalities are already supposed to fight repression. That is also said from the VNG. On the contrary, I believe that it is easier for municipalities and interested parties to set out a clear framework for this. I have, of course, taken note of the existing practice, the definition and principles of the Ministry and the Programme Council, the findings on administrative embarrassment in municipalities by the Inspectorate SZW and, of course, the many examples of municipalities. If we don't want displacement, we have to prevent it. For this purpose, the displacement test shall be used. This is the purpose of this law. The execution, so how the test is performed, remains with the municipality at all times. Mr. Chairman. I listened very carefully to the Members. I would like to respond to the concerns of both the Members and the organisations concerned, particularly the UNG, on three points. First of all, the test must be prepared by general measure of governance. The municipalities, the VNG, employers and trade unions, but above all the municipalities, have an important role to play in this process. The performers determine the execution. When drawing up the general measure of governance under the direction of the Minister, I propose that an execution test be carried out. In doing so, I would like to respond to the wishes of your Members and to offer the possibility of implementing any improvements in the handling of the general measure of governance in both Chambers of the States-General. One example is that issue of pilot placement, where, I understand, there are serious concerns about vulnerable groups and how they should be dealt with in implementation. This can also be agreed in the general measure of governance. Mr. Chairman. I also understand that municipalities have a lot on their plate. The pandemic and crisis pose new challenges. That brings me to my second point. I would like to give interested parties ample time to introduce the law. That is why I propose that the law should not be introduced this year but next year. In addition, there is the deadline for the municipal regulations to be amended six months after the law has been introduced, unless there are reasons, e.g. as a result of the displacement test, to depart from it. Ms Stienen asked for a hardness clause in the general measure of governance to remove any undesirable effects. I would like to respond to this request, particularly as I share the opinion of Mrs Stienen, as has already been said, that there should be no unnecessary rules or bureaucracy and that vulnerable groups should not be excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u44	I have an enlightening question about the execution test that Mrs Karabulut has just referred to. She said: that may mean that the law needs to be improved in both chambers. Am I to observe that she decides to take him back and work with a novelle?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u45	No. I mean that changes can be made to the general measure of governance. So we outline the framework and establish that, and the implementation is developed by general measure of governance, with a large role for municipalities and a long time to introduce it. When drawing up that general measure of governance, an implementation test may also be included, possibly with a hardness clause. This concerns, in particular, those vulnerable groups and a number of other major concerns that I hope have been able to overcome to a large extent. I would therefore like to conclude the legal process, hopefully in a positive way, but I would like to offer the implementation all the scope and possibilities to present problems, if they are observed, in practice too, by means of an execution test, also because that wish is once in your Chamber but also with the organisations that have to implement the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u46	That seems to me to be the opposite world. Because then we are actually being asked to adopt the law, knowing that we have a lot of things to figure out and that all kinds of things may need to be changed in the future. The question is, is that a good route? I would also like to know what the Minister thinks about that. Through this interruption I also put this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u47	There are no doubts about the frameworks and the clarification of the Participation Act. That's what the law says. I have tried to make it clear, and thereby try to remove your concerns about implementation, that we are not entering into implementation. Implementation remains with municipalities. If this law is implemented, it is governed by a general rule of administration. Moreover, the law already stated that it was being developed, with explicit reference to it, because there is a desire for an execution test to be carried out. So that's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u48	Go ahead, Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u49	I think Mr. Van Gurp is going to make a similar point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u50	Mr. Van Gurp's birthday isn't yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u51	He can speak for himself. Sorry. One of the core tasks of this Chamber is to look at the feasibility of legislation. An execution test is an essential element in this. Then I find it so complicated to wait for all these steps. I am happy and I think it is very good that all these steps are being taken, but I think it is premature for us as a Chamber to rule on the bill before we know what the outcome of that execution test is. That is actually in line with what Mr Schalk is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u52	I understand, but I still want to refute it. I would like to stress once again that, because the law states that reintegration pathways should not lead to displacement, but is not intended for further elaboration, we should regulate this as a framework in the law. The second point is that I do not want to enter into the system of the Participation Act and leave its implementation there. I think I have been able to overcome a lot of concerns, but since that is where the major concerns lie and I want to meet you, and because implementation should be regulated by general administrative action, with or without an execution test, I thought I would be able to meet your wishes and overcome those concerns in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u53	We are indeed now at the crucial point in the debate, I think. One of my mischiefs is that I always try to bridge the difference. I can see that you are also trying to do so, and yet you are still standing right in front of the gap. That at least in how it looks to me when I listen to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u54	It depends on which gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u55	You say that you want to listen seriously to this Chamber's objections to the absence of an execution test. That's what you're showing for yourself. We need an execution test to be able to judge a law. It is not an implementation thing that comes up once in the implementation; it is part of the assessment of the law. It is extremely difficult, at least for our group, and I belong to a number of political groups in this Chamber, in order to assess a law without that test. Your call for "just say yes to the law; these execution questions will all come to the execution," however well-intentioned, is just missing the point where the core task of this Chamber is. I'm just saying, the risk is that you think you have one bird in your hand, but it's ten in the air. I would actually like to say to you: better half an egg than an empty cap. You can continue, but that makes it almost impossible for us to agree now, given our core task. You can also say: I would have preferred it in the implementation, but I hear the Chamber well; let us take those implementation issues with us before the vote. Then the vote will only be one or two months later, but then the Chamber will also have something to vote on, given its core task. I therefore urge you to take that last step over the gap, because otherwise I feel that we are going to fall into it. That would be a shame for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u56	Of course, I cannot determine Mr Van Gurp's political decision. That is your consideration and your group's consideration. I can tell you that this Chamber has passed laws with execution tests and has also been adopted in the House of Representatives, and that this is not a guarantee either. I have, on the basis of current practice and on the basis of what is stated in the law, with the knowledge of today, perhaps I would have done so differently.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's a framework. The elaboration should be carried out by general administrative measure. That is why I believe that this route is acceptable in order to meet your wishes, to actually detect problems that might arise in the implementation. But the consideration of whether or not you are in favour of this displacement test with these criteria is ultimately up to you. However, I would like to point out that, even in the current situation, municipalities are, of course, expected to be tested for displacement. That was also my consideration of not taking a preliminaries test, because it is so explicitly stated in the law. But over the years and given the facts that lie ahead, but also because of correspondence with the Ministry and the facts I read to you about investigations of the Inspection SZW, I think this clarification can help municipalities. In step two, I agree with you that this should not lead to bureaucracy or the exclusion of groups. I don't think that's necessary either. That is why I want to give municipalities an even greater role. I think we might have to take that performance test in second instance. But that does not alter the fact that I think that the law is workable and effective in this way because there are municipalities that do it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u57	I hear it's your conviction, and that's your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u58	I'm trying to argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u59	The last thing I would ask the initiator to do is to take over my or our political responsibility, but I too listen to the debate and I hear representatives of very diverse political groups saying: give us the test of implementation so that we can do our work for a good reason and do not move it towards the implementation process, because that is the turned-over world. From the logic of this Chamber, regardless of the political weighting that each group makes, my intervention is not intended to allow you to take over my responsibility, but to ask you to listen carefully. Could this not be a helping hand to put the law, albeit with delay, to the vote here in a way that groups can agree with when voting? Whether they vote in favour or against is still everyone's responsibility. Don't miss that opportunity. Of course, I am not going to take over Mrs Karabulut's responsibility either, because it is her responsibility to take this up or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u60	We are all in agreement on this. I would like to stress once again that the Act before us is an elaboration of the Participation Act, on which, of course, we have had a wide-ranging debate before. Municipalities are considered to be a large number of municipalities also do it to test for displacement. That is why I did not consider this step necessary at this stage and still do not consider it necessary. What I do want to meet you in is three points. Firstly, in the general measure of governance, I would like to include implementing matters and tests. Secondly, I would like to offer a broad implementation period for municipalities, not only because of the great crowds, but also so that they can really prepare themselves for implementation. Thirdly, I have already said to Mrs Stienen that if there is to be a special article in the general measure of governance, a kind of hardness clause that can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u61	Mr Van Gurp, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u62	In doing so, I hope to give you the hand-in-hand, and I will take that step forward over the gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u63	The point is: you take that step and that's where my interruption came in. You are now repeating what you said before this interruption, and that is your right, but I was just asking for that additional step. Anyway, I can't force you to do something you don't want to say yes to. That's obvious. I would therefore like to put my question to the Minister for his term in a moment. Is he prepared to enter into consultations with the municipalities and implementing organisations such as UWV and Divosa and to inform us about this in a letter on the same issue? I'm gonna need something to hold on to in order to determine my voting behavior. Depending on the Minister's reply, we can then see what that means for the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u64	So you're asking the Minister for a letter before the vote? That is what Mr Van Gurp means, I say for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u65	Recapitulate for a moment. We have waited quite a long time for investigations to see whether this displacement test is feasible, feasible and enforceable. We have just discussed this very extensively. What I had hoped was that those reports and analyses would have included an implementation element, because that was a major concern in the first period of this debate. Now I'm really going to make someone very happy, because I studied Arabic myself and the lesson was always: you have to go back to the dictionary. I'm not a lawyer, so I can't go back to law school. But I can go back to the note attached to the focus on legislative quality on our own website. This was prepared under the inspiring leadership of Alexander Rinnooy Kan, together with a list of questions and concerns in the assessment of feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u66	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u67	This can be obtained from your own group chairman, but we certainly want to share it with you. It's a checklist for feasibility. Then I'd like to get to the point... you'll have to forgive me, because this is our own manual. This is what Mrs Sent says about what we have to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u68	I forgive you for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u69	Point 3 states: assessment of the feasibility by and for the parties concerned. Paragraph c: feasibility from the perspective of local authorities if applicable. That seems to me to be clearly the case here. Then there are four bullets. The first is, in fact, the most important: does the proposed law mean that new tasks are invested in local authorities? The second is: what new financial and organisational implementation efforts do this decentralisation require? I'm not gonna read it; it's searchable. Mr. Chairman. My group needs to get this test, this question, before the vote. I cannot therefore be satisfied with the fact that we are going to do so during the handling of the AMvB, because I do not think that this is the job we have to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u70	I offer to do so in the second instance, because that AMvB is also being presented, because I am in line with the Participation Act, for which a test has already been carried out. Municipalities are supposed to test for displacement. But I heard you. I had heard you and other colleagues before. I've tried to meet that. I have also proposed that this test be carried out. I will take your note, which makes sense to me, by the way. So I've just made a different assessment. That's what I'm trying to give you. You don't have to agree with that. But I've tried this and I'm still trying to meet you. If you're telling me right now, go perform an execution test... yes, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u71	Well, I'll let Mrs. Karabulut finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u72	Then you still have to shape how we are going to work out these criteria. That is precisely the intention of the general measure of governance. That's why I think it's an appropriate way. Then, of course, the Lower House and the Upper House still have the possibility not to agree to the general measure of governance, as a way of doing so, when all kinds of implementing matters come to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u73	This is a question of "the glass half full or the glass half empty." Berthold Gunster then says: the third asks "where is the crane?" Maybe we should look for the crane together. In addition to what Mr Van Gurp said about letter, I ask whether it might be possible to write a letter together with the Minister to the Association of Dutch Municipalities and a number of other implementing organisations asking how they see this, before we vote on the legislative proposal. That will be a slight execution test, but at least we will have an estimate of how the VNG sees it. That may take a few weeks, but at least we will have a decision before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u74	What only the people in Vlaardingen know is that Mr Van Gurp and I were formatters there and that we then had a nickname: bear and gentleman. That was in the odd assumption that men in a suit are a gentleman, while Mr Van Gurp here today again proves to be the gentleman of the two of us and not me. I see a slight annoyance with Mrs Karabulut's speech. Because to our question what the problem is, her response is: we do not know exactly, because there is no objective scientific research that can support this. The question of whether this law will help solve a problem is her response: we know that when we implement the law and therefore collect data. And at the time when we ask for an execution test, which is not that crazy for the First Chamber, Mrs Karabulut says: yes, you have often passed laws where you did take a performance test and it turned out to be wrong afterwards. Now we are courteous, because we are with 74 people and the President restrains me, especially to colleagues of ours, but if the Minister had made that speech, he would have been grilled. Because no misunderstanding, you already suspect that the VVD is not for the law, but that was GroenLinks in the Lower House, so was D66 in the Lower House, so was the PvdA in the Lower House. Why don't you look for bridges to cross that gap?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u75	What's your question, Mr. Van der Burg?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u76	Sorry, now I'm overreacting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u77	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u78	But I don't see Mrs Karabulut doing that. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u79	I'm definitely trying to do that. I tried that in my first term. I do not know how long I have tried to explain all those things that you may not see or where you disagree with the usefulness and necessity of this law. I have also seriously tried to do so, and I am still trying to do so to meet the wishes of the Members of your Chamber. And apparently all this has not helped to minimise Mr Van der Burg's irritation, but I will certainly continue to do my best to do so. And I have always listened carefully to the Chamber; I have only tried to explain what considerations we have made and what the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u80	Of course, I can sit and reason in that place very simply: I am not in favour of this law, so if it does not, then I am satisfied. But that's not how I'm gonna be. I just want to have a good debate with each other here and see if bridges can be built. I think that's right for this room, too. And that's what I don't see at all. I see several parties asking for variants of bridges... Or at least let me keep to my conclusion: I still do not see enough. That's what I wanted to put down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u82	I will conclude, Mr President, and you will not see me again for the second, sorry third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u83	Well, you've had it with this, I guess. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u84	"If the fox preaches the passion, farmer, watch your chickens," I would like to say to colleague Van der Burg. "I am going to vote against the law, but I feel so sorry for the parties who have supported this law in the Lower House, but now I see problems." Nice try, Mr Van der Burg, but that is not the solution. I think that is what I would like to ask Mrs Karabulut to say that there are two ways. I think that the path proposed by the initiator is a systematic one, because implementation goes through the AMvB. At the same time, it is also true that the opinion of a large number of parties on this law is in principle positive, but they want more explanation and more information on the implementation before they vote here. Well, I'm still listening here. But I also always count, and I think that in this case, and I would like to ask the initiator, she is indeed prepared to explain that second route in a letter after the invitation which I believe was made by Mr Stienen, with the Minister or at the same time with the Minister, after first consulting the implementing authorities, who, according to the initiator, should finally do the work before we proceed to the vote. That seems to me, in these proportions, more likely to be the end result. And in the end, of course, it's about the end result. And that Mr Van der Burg will then say 'yes, I might have wanted to vote in favour'... The invitation to Mr Van der Burg is or, when the bridges are made, between the initiator, the minister and the positive parties, he is so brave that the VVD should finally vote in favour. But I can't ask him that question. The question is whether, together with the Minister, she wishes to meet the wishes of the Chamber, so a letter before we vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u85	Yes. I know my position here. And I can count, like Mr. Kox, I can assure you. I really and sincerely meant and tried to build bridges. I think some of that worked out, too. I have also made a number of commitments. But I also hear and notice that this is not enough. If I can help you forward and if it could produce a positive result, I am prepared to write, together with the Minister, a letter to the performers, with a number of questions, as you put them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u87	And then, of course, I see the reaction of Mr Van der Burg and his group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u88	Would you then like to write that letter for the vote or for the third term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u89	We can do that before the vote. I think that was also the request: to receive that letter before the vote. So if the Minister agrees, we can do the third term now. In response to this promise, the letter can be sent. That's how we can do it, unless you say no, we don't want the third term until later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u90	I very much welcome the intervention of the group chairman of the SP and your constructive response to it. It seems logical to me to suspend the debate now and to keep the third deadline if we are in possession of your letter, so that we can immediately reflect on that letter in our third term. Otherwise, we're gonna apply for a fourth term, I can tell you, and you're gonna stay busy. That seems to me to be the most practical way of doing things. It's a consideration; I'd like to leave it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u91	I'll take that as an order proposal. I understand that you are making an order proposal to suspend the debate at the end of this second term, when the Minister is also speaking, and then to wait for a letter... just a moment of consultation. I interpret it so that Mr. Van Gurp makes an order proposal. We are going to vote on this later, or at least we are going to see if there is sufficient support for it. The proposal for a regulation includes the suspension of the debate at the end of the second term of the government and the initiator, I have to say the other way round, pending a letter. On receipt of that letter, at the time the committee asks me to do so, the third deadline may then be scheduled in the agenda. Then we need to find a good time for that. That's the order proposal. I suggest that we put that order proposal to the vote, or that I at least ask the spokesmen to come forward and let them know if they feel like it, but only at the end of this period. So we let Mrs Karabulut finish her story first, then let the minister finish his story and then we'll vote or see if there's a majority for this order proposal. I therefore propose that we do not vote on this at the moment, if the Chamber agrees. If no one objects, then we are not going to vote on the order proposal. But the order proposal is clear. The point of order is that at the end of the second term we will suspend the initiativer and the government. That is the order proposal; we are not going to take a decision until the end of this period. I would like to look at Mrs Karabulut; can she tell us how far she is with her second term? Because when she's done with that, I'm giving the Minister the floor for his second term, and then we're going to consider this order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u92	Mr President, thank you. I'll come to a conclusion. I think, I hope and I assume that bridges will now be built and that, when the execution test is in place, we will find a formula that can actually apply this displacement test in practice. Mr. Chairman. I know that I would like to conclude by saying that there is a lot of social debate about laws and rules, whether or not with execution tests, that punish people instead of helping them forward. This law aims at the opposite. I am convinced that we share this objective here. We want the human size back, with clear standards for working and not working. Mr Raven asked me an important question about the Borstlap Committee, which advises to create additional jobs for people who are not coming to work. I can only wholeheartedly agree with that. I hope that we will see the concrete results in the coming years. Because, as Mrs Sent said, there is too much work of value that remains. Perspective, trust and space: that's what it's all about. Let us make work valuable again, I would add; also for people on the front line, also for precarious jobs. Let us not only say that we are against repression, but also do something about it. I am convinced that, in the end, everyone will be better off. Mr. Chairman. It was my honor and pleasure to discuss this with your Chamber, with the senators. I would like to thank them very much for their contributions. It is once again a special turn of events in the handling of this bill. I say immediately that when an execution test should be requested, it will take a few weeks. Anyway, we're gonna have to have a little more discussion about that. That will mean that I will most probably not be able to do the rounding. But I am confident that my successor will take on the last term of this law in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u93	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. Mrs Sent and Mr Schalk have a brief interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u94	If it is true that we are no longer going to talk to Mrs Karabulut about this, then I would like to thank her once again for the great commitment. I would like to thank her for all these years of hard work and evidence. I am very grateful to her for that. I hope that with a constructive coalition in this Chamber and with more support we can get comfort in voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u95	After these words of praise, it is a bit difficult to go back to the problems we are facing at the moment. But I want to do that anyway, because we will probably decide not to hold a third term today. Then there will be an execution test, as Mrs Karabulut calls it. But Mrs Stienen calls it a request to the VNG to see if there is some kind of implementation test light. So a very light variant. But what if the VNG then comes up with an answer that doesn't offer a positive result? What happens then? Will we then have a third term and then have to tell Mrs Karabulut's successor that it is very unfortunate and so on? Or does Mrs Karabulut say here: okay, if that performance test light doesn't lead to the desired result, then I'm not coming back?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u96	I can't comment on that at all. We have to do what we agreed to here first or meet later. Then there's a result. On the basis of that result, we determine the follow-up steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u97	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. There may be a positive or a negative result. But that does not mean that it is clear that my party, for example, would suddenly take a different view. I would very much like to make it clear that beautiful bridges have been built. But for some, that last two meters has not just been bridged. And then you don't jump.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u98	I'm not asking you to jump or anything. In my opinion, you are dealing with your own order proposal which still needs to be put to the vote. I think the letter will be asked. On the basis of what the municipalities come up with, the substantive debate will then have to be held with each other. And then you can finally determine your position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u99	I would like to give Mr Schalk the metaphor of Saint Christopher. Sometimes you don't need a bridge or a boat to get across. So let's see what's in the letter. That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u100	Thank you. Then the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment has the floor for his part in the second term of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u101	Mr President, thank you. And in the first place thanks to the initiator. I am indeed the third member of the government to be allowed to comment here. I am the third after Mrs Klijnsma and Mrs Van Ark. It's always an honor to do that. I'll be brief. I think that the core of this debate is now focusing on feasibility. There is one technical thing I would like to explain. The aim of the proposal is very sympathetic. I believe that there is broad support for combating displacement. In fact, that's already in the law. If I walk past today's debate, I see two major questions. The first question is the size. The second question is feasibility. Let me be very brief. A number of questions have been asked about the size. I think Mrs Karabulut has already replied. Since last time, March 6, 2018, requests have been made by the Ministry of Social Affairs to, for example, the SCP, the CPB and SEO to map the size. We know from this that there can be theoretical displacement and that it does occur in practice. There are examples from FNV research and SP research. But there's very little view of the size. There's a question mark as to whether it's large-scale. As Mrs Karabulut said, this has not been clarified in all these studies. My predecessor, Mrs Van Ark, also spoke as Secretary of State with a number of scientists who have done research on this issue. They say: theoretically it can occur, but in practice we actually see few examples of displacement, apart from the casusism that we do see. In short, that is the core of what we know about size. Nor is it, I say in the direction of Mr Kox, that the cabinet has been sitting still, because we have just asked SEO, the CPB, the SCP and those scientists to get a better view of this. In the meantime, in the three years between the first treatment and the treatment now, we have tried to map that, but we are facing data problems, research methodology problems and that sort of thing. I think that subject is one. The broad conclusion of the CPB and the SCP is, in short, yes, displacement exists, but we have serious doubts as to whether it is frequent. The second problem is implementation. I'm gonna make it a little bit more complicated. Sorry about that. There are two things in the functioning of the bill. One is a test on displacement. Are the work carried out cheaper? Is sitting staff being replaced? Are the wages and other conditions of seated staff affected? Are the work previously carried out against collective wage or wml now carried out under the wml? Are the activities carried out by people on benefits? These are the five criteria which are briefly outlined in the law and which need to be assessed. But there is one article, Article 8g, which is crucial. This is about the fact that the agreed activities, e.g. trajectories or work or learning paths, may not continue if they are carried out under the wml. The post may not have been carried out in the previous three years by a person who has performed the function against a wml or a collective wage. There's the crux in there. Mrs Karabulut said: "That is not my intention. That's not the intention of the law. That was corrected in the second letter of amendment." I've just checked with my people, who really know. They say that this has not been corrected in the second letter of amendment, because it excludes people with disabilities, but not in the right way. For people who, for example, are going to work through a learning process or pilot placements, both in the Participation Act and in the WW, or through training on the job and the like, this cannot happen if Article 8g enters into force. There is the implementation problem of Divosa, Cedris, the VNG and also of VNO-NCW, because that is where it also affects the job deal. For example, people who are distanced from the labour market and who want to get into work from a participation law can continue to receive benefits at work for a period of time. During that period the wage value shall be determined. Wage values are once again the basis for the wage costs subsidy given to finance up to the wml. I've only been working on this for ten days, so I have to say that I haven't explored every corner of the playing field right now. But that, I believe, is the heart of this discussion. Mrs Karabulut says it is not the intention; I agree with her. But VNG, Cedris and Divosa say that it can be the outcome of this, and that it is therefore more difficult to achieve these tests. That puts us at risk of putting the horse behind the cart. Mrs Karabulut says: that is not true; that is not my intention and that is not the purpose. Here is a difference of reading of the law. Think of the second letter of amendment. Article 8d (2) (e) aims to ensure that only people with disabilities are excluded, but not test placements, not under the WW, the Participation Act, the IOAW and the IOAZ. In the eyes of my officials, it means that there is a potential problem here. For the feasibility, you should actually go through this test for all routes, with the risk that employers will not do it anymore. Again, Mrs Karabulut does not want that. She says, both in the Lower House and here: that is not the intention of the bill. But I would like to record this together with Mrs Karabulut in order to check this point also for feasibility, in the municipalities but also in the UWV, because the UWV carries out some of these tests in the WW. We'll inform your room about that. I'm probably going to pick that up with Mrs Karabulut's successor. The formal execution test takes a few weeks, as you know. It concerns six to ten weeks for the municipalities and the UWV. You must therefore bear in mind that it will take some time. If I am right, or rather, if my officials are right, then we still have an issue at law. In Article 8g there is a potential barrier to the functioning of the labour market and to the entry into employment of people with benefits. If I'm wrong, it's a matter of: what are the execution costs and how are you going to perform it in a way that municipalities and the UWV can handle it easily? I can now give all kinds of answers to the questions that have been asked, but I think this is at the heart of the debate. I think we should just suspend now, ask for the letter, take the execution test and then come back in the third term, if that letter is there. Then we'll tell you how to proceed. I would like to thank Mrs Karabulut for the initiative. Thank you for letting me be back in the First Chamber today to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u102	Thank you, Minister. Then I note that the reply of the initiator and the Minister has been completed in the second term. That concludes the second deadline. Before we reach the third term of office, we have an order proposal from Mr Van Gurp. That proposal of order means that we are suspending the debate at the moment, so after the second deadline has been completed and before the third deadline on the part of the Chamber begins, and that we are not planning the third deadline until the committee makes a proposal to me to schedule that third deadline. Did I put it that well, Mr. Van Gurp? Yes. I would ask the spokesmen to briefly inform the interrupting microphone whether their group supports this order proposal. It is important for the Acts to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u103	D66 supports this order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u104	Also support from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u105	The PVV supports the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u106	Support from the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u107	The CDA Group supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u108	Mr. Chairman. Every week there's something special going on in this room, even today. I'd like to give that to you. Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u109	Now that the SGP supports the proposal, the SP, which has one less letter and another philosophy, supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u110	That's a good proposal, Mr. Chairman. The OSF supports that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u111	The Nanninga Group supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u112	Unfortunately, Mr De Vries decides on unanimity, but the VVD also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u113	Then we shall go for unanimity: support on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u114	Thank you. I note that Mr Van Gurp's procedural proposal has been accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-13.u115	We now come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, Mrs Karabulut, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the staff who made this meeting possible. I wish you all well at home and close the meeting.
