ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the decision on the controversial declaration of legislative proposals. In accordance with the procedural rules, I have submitted to the Chamber two lists of decisions to make possible a controversial declaration of any legislative proposals pending before the First Chamber. The A list contains the legislative proposals ready for plenary consideration. The B list contains the legislative proposals that are at the stage of written examination. Then there is an additional C-list with other topics. Having taken stock of the political groups, I have concluded that for three of the legislative proposals listed in the lists, there is a majority of political groups which propose to declare the legislative proposals controversial or support proposals for a controversial declaration of those legislative proposals. These are the legislative proposals: 35282, Amendment of, inter alia, the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act and the Education and Vocational Education Act to lay down rules for the accessibility of higher education and for language in higher and secondary vocational education, the Language and Accessibility Act; 35532, Declaration that there is grounds for considering a proposal to change the Constitution of the provisions governing the election, establishment and composition of the First Chamber of the States General; 35533, Declaration that there is grounds for considering a proposal to change the Constitution in order to introduce consideration at a unified meeting of the second reading of changes to the Constitution. My proposal is therefore to declare these legislative proposals controversial and also not to declare the other proposals on the lists controversial. Does one of the Members wish to speak on this proposal? That is not the case. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this proposal? That is not the case. I conclude that the Court declares the aforementioned legislative proposals controversial and does not declare the other proposals on the lists controversial.
