ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35552-(R2148), Amendment of the Passport Act in relation to the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/1157 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the strengthening of the security of identity cards of Union citizens and of residence documents issued to citizens of the Union and their family members exercising their right of free movement (PbEU 2019, L 188), shortly implementing Regulation ID cards. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Where a passport is always a symbol of a sovereign state and the most tangible proof that a citizen belongs to that state, this instrument is increasingly being stolen from Brussels from the nation states and made part of the EU superstate. In fact, the EU dictatorship that is behind this law recommends that the blue EU flag should be printed pontifically and full colour on our passport. In popular terms, the old Dutch passport that was used from the 1950s onwards, the model-1950, also called "the black rag," was taken here as an example of my late grandfather before this was given a beautiful burgundy-red jacket. With the blue flag of Eurocrats on it, we can speak better of "the blue rag." In exchange for that flag, the EU also comes with this new European regulation to demand a piece of privacy. Due to this EU regulation and the current law, fingerprinting for passports and identity cards is again required, while the Netherlands itself decided in 2014 to abolish the mandatory fingerprints, because this had proved technically inadequate and unworkable. Now it does not come back on its own initiative, but on a mission from Brussels. Last week, this Chamber received a letter from the organisation Privacy First, explaining punctually what legal obstacles it sees in the enforcement of this law with regard to the mandatory fingerprints. This afternoon we also received a petition on this subject. In the reply, the Secretary of State replied to our PVV Group's question about responding to previous objections to fingerprinting, but only indicated that insufficient supporters could be found at EU level. Privacy First, however, points to various objections and obstacles. In the absence of a second written round, I would ask the Secretary of State to address these issues in this debate. First, in May 2016, the Council of State ruled that fingerprints in Dutch identity cards are contrary to the right to privacy due to a lack of necessity and proportionality. Can the Secretary of State indicate how this bill responds to these objections from the Council of State? According to Privacy First, Wob requests show that the phenomenon of look-alike fraud with ID documents to be combated is so small that mandatory fingerprinting to combat it would be disproportionate and therefore unlawful. Can the Secretary of State reflect on this objection and on the possible opportunities for legal proceedings that could follow on this basis? They also argue that fingerprints in passports and identity cards would have a biometric error rate of 30% a few years ago. It refers to a letter from State Secretary Teeven dated 31 January 2013. In 2011, Minister Donner indicated that it would be an error rate of 21% to 25%. Due to these high error rates, fingerprints in identity cards were no longer used in practice. Can the Secretary of State indicate what is now expected of error rates and what steps have been taken to prevent such high error rates? Furthermore, it is stated that in September 2009, because of these high error rates, Secretary of State Bijleveld instructed all Dutch municipalities not to carry out fingerprint verification in principle when issuing passports and identity cards, because in the event of a mismatch, the ID document has to be returned to the passport manufacturer. That would create problems for municipal desks, especially in high numbers. Can the Secretary of State indicate to what extent this obstacle has been removed by now? Can he also comment on the point we put forward in the written round, namely the situation in the case of a defective chip? The Secretary of State says that the ID document will be taken. But can citizens quickly obtain a replacement ID document with which they can still travel? There are temporary passports that are being issued, which, by the way, were a lot of problems in Almere today. Can they be seen as an equivalent publishing document? According to Privacy First, since 2016, several individual Dutch lawsuits have been in progress at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, challenging the mandatory issue of fingerprints for passports and ID cards for breach of Article 8 ECHR, the right to privacy. The PVV Group does not have much interest in the European Court, but it is important that this might lead to problems. Can the Secretary of State indicate the state of play and the likely consequences for the enforcement of this law? In 2011, the decentralised and planned central storage of fingerprints was abolished following a lawsuit of Privacy First on the Passport Act. To what extent are these objections now being met? The government's argument for this bill is only small: it has to be done by the EU, so let's just do it. Given all the previous objections, it is only the question whether a political surprise will come out of a box sooner or later. Such an unpleasant surprise also happened to the rulers of the Lubbers cabinet, in the 1980s, when they tried to develop a new, fraud-proof, European passport. This eventually led to a parliamentary inquiry, led by the well-known Loek Hermans, and the resignation of Minister Van Eekelen and Secretary of State René van der Linden, well-known here. Can the current outgoing Secretary of State therefore argue what he has done to prevent a successor from presenting a nasty political surprise, given the many legal and feasibility objections? Finally, Mr President. In the reply, the Secretary of State states that, among other things, Frontex encounters many cases of passport fraud. Then it is a drop in the ocean to strengthen the safety requirements of ID documents while the borders remain wide open. Thus, in an EU without effective border controls and with open borders, this is no more than a dummy solution. As far as the PVV is concerned, we do not need this EU interference at all. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u5	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing what the new identity card in the Netherlands is going to look like. But what exactly is identity? You do not choose identity, you get it, or as Sinan Çankaya puts it in interviews about his book My countless identities, from 2020: "Idident is always relational. It's mostly about how the environment defines you and reacts to you. You don't have your identity." Yet the European Commission has decided that uniform identity cards should be introduced within the European Union, with the main objectives of better tackling fraud at EU borders and facilitating the right to free movement of EU citizens. The innumerable identities of a person shall be reduced in the card to a name, a date of birth, nationality, a number accompanied by two fingerprints and a facial image. The map is 'ornamented', I say to Mr Van Hattem in particular, with the European blue flag with yellow stars, a well-known symbol of Europe in the world. The new identity card will no longer indicate the sex of the person after the law has been amended in due course. At the end of 2022, the Secretary of State will submit the bill that makes it possible to do so to the Lower House. But why not much sooner? In Europe, Greece and Germany have already abolished gender registration, which is also known as gender registration, on their identity cards. The Dutch Government has long been urged to refrain from unnecessary gender registrations. For example, in a 2011 report on the rights of transgender people in the Netherlands, Human Rights Watch has already recommended the design of forms and documents that allow people to stop mentioning their gender or gender. And in 2007 and 2017, the international experts who drew up the Jogjakarta principles developed international human rights "the right to legal recognition." The experts call on States to ensure that identity documents contain only personal information that is relevant, reasonable and necessary. End the registration of gender in identity documents, they recommended in 2007 and 2017. Since 2007, all Dutch governments have endorsed Jogjakarta principles. Finally, I would like to mention that the Dutch Government has set up the Equal Rights Coalition together with Uruguay. 42 countries in the world are now members. They also share this view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u6	I have a question for my colleague...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u7	Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u8	Of course. I just wanted to calm down for a moment, and I did. So let me ask Mr Dittrich a question. Can he also imagine that there are vulnerable people who find it very nice and important to have their sex mentioned on their identity cards?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u9	I'm gonna have to think about that. The point is that there is some information on an identity card that guarantees the identity of the person. In the scheme that is to apply, that name, bsn number, nationality and then that biometric data. These are the necessary and also reasonable requirements that can be imposed on an identity card. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u10	Yes, but one step further, back to my question. Are there also people in a vulnerable position who like the fact that these important data also indicate that they are male or female?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u11	I can imagine that an identity card actually only has necessary data. I started my introduction by saying that the identity of a person consists of many more layers and data than the reduction on the card. If someone thinks it's important that his or her sex is part of the identity, you can shape it in very different ways. That is not necessary with this card, which is eventually read by technical means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u12	I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u13	Also in the 2017 government agreement, the government undertakes to prevent unnecessary sex registration. By letter dated 3 July last year, Minister Van Engelshoven wrote to the Eerste Kamer, also on behalf of this State Secretary, about the state of play. A report appeared from Utrecht University. Organisations like Atria and Transgender Network Netherlands have designed a toolkit on how governments, business and social organisation can reduce unnecessary gender registrations. Those records are pretty obvious. So there is no need for further research at all. That brings me to the question to the Secretary of State why things are going so slowly. It's not that hard to write a bill, is it? Would the Secretary of State promise us that he will submit that bill before the end of 2022, as he writes in the documents? Mr. Chairman. Then I have a number of questions about the feasibility of the legislative proposal before us. The new identity card, now still with the gender registration, will be issued from 2 August next. In the written preparation, the Secretary of State replied to questions from D66 that there is no provision for extra attention to the containment of ethnic profiling when checking the card. The D66 Group is concerned about that, I must say. Officially the fingerprints should only be verified if there is a photo uncertainty about the identity of the person, but of course we all know the stories about black men or women with headscarfs that are subject to extra checks. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take advantage of the introduction of the new identity card in order to point out to the inspectors that ethnic profiling is out of the question? The biometric data will only appear on the identity card and, as the Secretary of State explained, they will not be centrally stored. That seems to us to be quite right. The Secretary of State says that a key is being developed that allows the countries to read the data on the map. But that key isn't there yet. Other countries are therefore not yet able to check the fingerprints, should there be reasonable doubt as to the identity of a person. What's the status now? Is it true that the key that is being designed also gives access to the citizen service number, biometric facial image and other personal facts on the card? Where are the other countries with their equipment? How far is the Netherlands? Will that equipment be safe enough to withstand, for example, hacking? Because we all know how this technique develops, and we all know stories that on the darkweb fingerprints of innocent citizens are being traded. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State that the key that will be designed is safe. Will the Secretary of State inform us about this? Within 90 days of issuing the identity card, biometric data shall be erased and destroyed by the municipality that issued the card. In the written reply, the Secretary of State wrote to us that the Minister of BZK oversees the actual destruction. But how does this supervision of actual destruction actually work in practice? Because we shouldn't have biometric data lying around. That happened in 2006 with empty passports. That was also decentralized. They were stolen and traded. The question, the underlying thought, is of course: is it safe enough to anchor supervision in such a way? Finally, Mr President, another question about Dutch people abroad. A new identity card may only be issued after the person has physically appeared and surrendered his biometric data. But if you live as a Dutchman in a far country, far from the embassy or Dutch representation, if you are ill or if there are other serious circumstances that prevent you from appearing in person at the application location, it is virtually impossible to comply with that requirement. The solution found by the government is the ""Now comes a horrible word "Mobile Fingerprint Recorder," the "MVA." Then the house is satisfied with the obligation to appear. In itself, that seems a good solution, but how does it work abroad, for example, if you live in a large country where there is no Dutch representation? I would just like to mention Cameroon or Zambia, where the Dutch embassies have been dissolved. Mr. Chairman. D66 would like this bill to come into force to evaluate the technical aspects of fingerprinting in terms of safety. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? In the context of the evaluation, we also think it is very important that the results of the legal proceedings currently before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg are taken into account in the evaluation. The question now is what is the state of affairs with regard to these trials. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take note of this in the evaluation? That brings me to the end of my contribution. I'm very curious to hear the Secretary of State's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u14	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Mr Schalk has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u15	Thank you, Mr President. An identity card is, of course, about what is on that card, but sometimes it is also important to discuss what is not on it. I may still be speaking in riddles, but I will resolve them in my speech. One thing is certain: the normal data is needed, which is now supplemented by a facial image and two fingerprints. It is quite logical that there should be an obligation to appear. It is also important to keep an eye on those who cannot appear due to all kinds of restrictions. This is fully taken into account. My group would like to thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. What else can and/or should be on the identity card? The Council of State has indicated that a correlation table should be attached to a regulation, in particular to reflect how the government handles the policy scope of such a regulation. This table contains an element that raises questions for my group. Article 3 states in the "policy space" section: "sex on identity cards" optionally. Next, there is the explanatory statement on the choices in the definition of the policy area that under Article 3 of the Passport Act the gender is mentioned. My question is why this element is included in the transposition table, while there is no further reference to it in this legislative proposal. I saw that the Secretary of State began his first term in the House of Representatives by saying that the Passport Act is so dynamic, I quote, 'because it has all kinds of dimensions, such as the gender issue, the dimension of privacy and the dimension of security'. To my written questions on this subject, the government has replied that this element falls within national competence and that this is not currently covered by this law. I would like to have an explicit confirmation of that. But why was it mentioned here? What is the benefit of mentioning sex in terms of safety and identity verification? The Secretary of State therefore stated in the written round that at this stage the registration of the sex on the identity card is not being carried out. He has announced that he will do so in the future, but how does this intention relate to the aim of optimising identity verification of the identity card? This seems to be about the word "unnecessary": unnecessary gender registration. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is precisely in terms of security and identity that it is important to know whether men or women are crossing the border? Think of terrorist attacks. Think also of the cowardly attack recently on Peter R. de Vries, after which a description immediately went out, which actually eliminated half of the possible perpetrators. Does the Secretary of State see with me that it would be very strange for a description to stop talking about a man or a woman? After all, that eliminates half the potential offenders. Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on the European regulation, but that is another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u16	To be honest, I do not understand why the police, if they want to send out a description, could not say: we suspect a man or a woman. What does that have to do with that I.D.?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u17	I understand. Maybe I jumped too far, but it could be just in the event of terrorist attacks that someone wants to cross the border. Then he's got an I.D. and, for example, he comes to an airport gate where he shows his identity card. I thought of that when I mentioned this example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u18	If a potential terrorist wants to commit an attack and he or she shows an identity card, then it is completely irrelevant whether that identity card says "man" or "woman"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u19	I've made the leap of heart whether, if you don't want to put it on an I.D. anymore, you can still yell or say it. I am glad that Mr Dittrich agrees with me that you can just keep saying that in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u20	Yes, because we are talking about the necessary data that should be on a map. Anything that's unnecessary doesn't have to be on it anymore. You agree with me that the sex is not necessary on that identity card.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u21	I'm not going to draw that final conclusion with you yet. I think it might be necessary. I have just had an interrupting debate with you on this. I would particularly like to comment on this if the Secretary of State ever made a proposal. You might also get a very large group of people into trouble by not making it optional and saying: we think it is unnecessary, so we don't put it on a map anymore. I can imagine that a number of people, especially from the vulnerable group, might find it very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u22	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u23	That's what I'm gonna do, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to say a few words about this European regulation which will lead to the new identity card, which will have the EU's stamp on it. That is going to get over it for a while, because it must and will have a European flag on it. What does this element actually add to security and identity verification? Besides the EU flag, blue with yellow stars, the letters of the Member State are printed on the map. Is it also allowed, I ask the Secretary of State, to depict the national tricolor? Can the European flag and the Dutch flag be both depicted? I'd find that an interesting option. Mr. Chairman. My group is curious about the answers, as always of course, to the questions concerning the inclusion of gender in this change. If it is clear that this is not the case at the moment, my group may be able to accept this change in the identity card. I am therefore curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u24	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-13-eerstekamer-20.u25	Then we will continue on this subject, after a short third period of consideration of the bill on Invest International.
