ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security. I would like to welcome the leaders: the Minister of Justice and Security, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and the Minister for Legal Protection, as well as the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. We have a total of 29 speakers. Unfortunately, Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party has to apologize, but 29 is also quite a lot. So I would like to agree with you: eight questions or comments to each other in the first period and eight questions or comments to the directors. I would also like to agree with you that interruptions consist of a brief remark or a question, without any introduction. I really appeal to you to really limit yourself to that and simply use the input for the formal input in the first term and the second term. Interruptions therefore consist of a short question or comment. It's very annoying, but I'm really going to stick to that, because we just have a lot of speakers and we want to leave everyone to the floor. I would also like to point out that, as of today, there is an obligation of 1.5 metres away. I therefore appeal to everyone to keep to that. After all, we also have an example function in this House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u2	Then we will start quickly and I will give the floor to Mrs Helder of the Party for Animals. Sorry, let's do it again. I call Mrs Helder of the PVV. She told me that she has some throat problems, so we need to see how far we're going to get. Otherwise, her colleague, Mr Markuszower, will take over. I call Mrs Helder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm trying anyway, because I really can't help it. "JenV is working hard on a safe and just Netherlands," says the budget for 2022. This is a hollow text from the Hague bubble, which is not recognized in the country. Ask the victims in the premium affair, who, if they could still afford legal aid, encountered judges who were afraid to give them equal treatment because they were afraid of the Council of State. Ask the residents of municipalities who no longer have a police station in the vicinity. Ask victims of a sex crime whose file is still on the shelf because of a lack of detectives. Or ask police officers who see more and more colleagues disappear and more and more tasks and aggression come upon themselves. Mr. Chairman. From this point on, I would also like to express my support for all the officers, firefighters and paramedics who have been violently harassed by unsatisfied people in recent days. It's unacceptable. We need to arrest these people, punish them hard and get them to pay for the damage. My pants are falling when we hear the Minister and the Head of Unit talk about "we have to offer those young people a perspective." The only perspective is, as far as PVV is concerned, prison and compensation for the damage in full. Can't you afford it? It is possible to claim up to the length of years if the claim is not statute-barred. Does he have any income later? Then you can just impound it. That's a frightening thing to do. Years behind bars for this violence and then years of working to compensate for the damage; so you punish this unrelenting violence. Mr. Chairman. The tone has been set. And again this year I don't have a happy note. Because where there is an acute budget of EUR 7 billion for climate action, that is more than the entire police budget in total, security is still not a priority for this cabinet. Why not? What good is a climate-neutral country where the police can't handle it anymore, where our streets aren't safe and our vital infrastructure can be hacked from the attic? Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the police capacity. What the police need is long-term and structural funding. Not: first money, then money off, and then some more. Once people are gone, you don't get it back with a bag of money. How is there a budget deficit of 230 million this year? I understand that a job vacancy summit has now been declared. Does this mean that there will be no more influx of much-needed capacity? And, if so, how long is this gonna take? Can I conclude, therefore, that we have actually already done that the promised occupation will not be realized in 2024? Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the need is so high that the training at the Police College has been taken from three to two years to get the agents who are there on the street as soon as possible. But then I ask the Minister: this does not benefit the security of the agents concerned and their escorts, does it? I would like a substantive response to that point. Mr. Chairman. Because, of course, the number of agents has not been supplemented from one day to the next, I also ask: why more and more tasks? The Minister still owes me that answer. But let me do a hand-out: is the Minister aware of the success of the city Marines? There's a report from the police academy that shows that success. This is also evident from daily practice in Rotterdam. City Marines are civil servants with a hefty portion of experience under the direct orders of the mayor. They are therefore not covered by a municipal service and can operate through bureaucracy with a small budget of their own. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this in the National Security and Police Consultation? Mr. Chairman. I have stressed it many times, and I am doing so again this year: the police stations. Unfortunately, the closure of police stations continues unabated. Of course, this does not help the visibility of the agents. The whole of the North Netherlands, or Friesland, Groningen and Drenthe, has 34 police stations in total. In the East of the Netherlands, or Overijssel and Gelderland, there are 46 police stations. So we are talking about five provinces with 80 police stations. How can the police get there in time and be visible to the public at all? I would remind the Minister once again of the article 'How The Hague disappeared from the Netherlands'. I would like to have a substantive response to that, and I would also like to have a guarantee that there will be no further closure of police stations. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the visibility of the police. My mailbox is flooded with messages from agents who feel offended by the nonsense of diversity at this point. Last year I told the minister a quote about the headscarf at the uniform. The corps leadership is in favour of this, but the Minister then confirmed the code of conduct with the requirement of neutrality. But now there will be a pilot for the boas, the extraordinary investigators, in which they would apparently be allowed to wear them in two large municipalities. The Minister said that this is a local matter. Boas aren't policemen, but that's a paper reality, because they fill the hole that the police are forced to leave behind. They maintain in public space. They are the face of the government and are legal investigators. In addition, neutrality is an absolute condition. The Minister cannot dive by saying that it is a local matter. He is responsible for the rule of law. There is a sliding scale here. My group believes that the Minister should intervene. He can, because he determines the frameworks for the boas. So let us have a clear statement from the Minister on this point, just like last year, but now with regard to the boas. Mr. Chairman. The lack of police capacity and visibility is also a bridge to organised crime. In that business, billions are made. And unfortunately, from prison they can continue their practices. We saw that. The chances of getting caught and the penalties remain unabated. There may be some money, but 0.5 billion. Calculating criminals choose the Netherlands because of the faults, namely the chance of getting so low and unfortunately also the punishments. The conclusion is therefore that crime pays off. During the General Political Reviews, my group chairman said, and I quote literally, "Hard drugs are the poison of our society. This also means that we must realise that anyone who uses hard drugs is partly responsible for the misery that is being poured out over our country." At the end of that quote, it is said that the government has the task of tackling hard-drug users. Prime Minister Rutte agreed with my group leader at the time. He said he'd have it figured out. That would be for this budget debate. That is why I am asking: where are the measures? And I'm not talking about a WODC report, I'm talking about measures, i.e. action. Mr. Chairman. As part of the fight against organised crime, we have also referred to Italy, where serious criminals are in complete isolation and only one hour a month, behind glass and filmed, can see one family member. I see the Secretary of Law nodding. That's right; he's been to Italy, Mr. Chairman. That's what my text says. We received a letter about this, but unfortunately the media were first informed and then the Chamber. There are a lot of measures in that. That is to be welcomed, but unfortunately it did not contain the article of law which applies in Italy to lovers: Article 41a of the law on the prison system, which makes it possible to lock them up in complete isolation. So my question to the Minister for Legal Protection is: why not just this article of law? Mr. Chairman. Then cybersecurity and cybercrime. The National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security calls "ransomware," or hostage software, as I have to say in Dutch, a "threat to national security." In the US, the use of ransomware is even called a terrorist act. That's where the Office of the National Cyber Director was recently established to assist the President in this. In the Netherlands we only have the National Cyber Security Centre. But that almost exclusively protects companies in the vital infrastructure and should not share threat information with other parties. Another weakness is that we, I say neatly, do not have a cyber chief. In the Netherlands there are many visions of various ministries, visions that are often contradictory. In 2011, I also asked, and even suggested, that this should be an overarching task for one ruler, with his own budget and with perseverance. So it should not be a coordinating minister, it should be a separate minister. For example, call it a Minister for Digital Affairs. Does the Minister agree with me? I don't mean the name, but I mean one minister. Mr President, finally, there is a very different subject. First we had the sexual abuse within the Catholic Church, then in the youth institutions and recently in gymnastics. The common denominator is that those who could have stopped the abuse, the so-called enablings, did not do so. They chose the institute or the higher purpose, the sport and the performance, and did not help the victims. Professor Guiora of the University of Utah interviewed many victims. Almost all of them thought that the viewers were worse than the perpetrators themselves, because they consciously chose to look away systematically, knowing very well what was happening. This allowed the abuse to continue for years. Professor Guiora has written a book about this with a plea for criminalising this look away. A number of senators in the United States have adopted this, and legislation is being prepared in a number of states. I gave that book to the Secretary of Law last year. I'd love to show it here, but I dropped it off. However, I would like the Minister to investigate the possibility of criminalising this also in the Netherlands, in order to prevent or protect victims of sexual abuse. So my question is: is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr President, I made it! I end with a quote that is almost the same as the quote I started with, but this is 100% true: "Not JenV, but the PVV is working hard on a safe and just Netherlands." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. It's very good of you to be able to understand until the end. Perseverance! I give the floor to your colleague, Mr Markuszower of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also for the presence today of the trio sitting in box-K. Minister Grapperhaus of Justice and Security has, I see, made time for us, even though he has been busy with everything in the last few months, except with the work for which we had hired him. With Corona's apologies in his back pocket, he restricted our freedoms through dictatorial rules. Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that we reject the violence we have seen in Rotterdam, for example, over the last few days. Not only do we reject it, but we also want to see it dealt with very hard. And that will prove difficult with this minister, because the minister is a wailer. Last Sunday on television, he did not talk about a tough approach, but mainly about prevention, opportunities in neighbourhoods and providing perspective for young people. And he refused, as all politically correct wauwelers actually do, to face the truth, namely...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u6	There is an interruption by Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union. But now let us also make an agreement with each other not to do insults, such as 'wailer', which does not make the debate more beautiful or stronger. I call Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr Marskuszower uses the words 'dictorial rules'. First of all, I distance myself from that. But most of all: we are a parliament here, which has a controlling function. There is no rule that a minister can impose without a parliament, either in the legislative sense, as Mr Markuszower knows very well, or it is really a ministerial arrangement, but then too, Parliament has plenty of possibilities. So there are no dictatorial rules here. There are democratic rules here, which Mr Markuszower can find out all about and on which we can have a strong debate. I don't think that's a problem, but don't call it dictatorial rules. Check out countries where it is and what Parliament is proposing there. And be a little proud of your position as a parliamentarians instead of being the Minister's lapdog.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u8	Speaking of the "shootdog," that's exactly the problem. Had we had a real parliament, we would have had a real coalition that wasn't like "well, the word was already mentioned by the lady herself "a lapdog..." The coalition does not act in a dualistic way. The coalition, and certainly the Christian Union that Mrs Bikker is a member of, does not agree with a great many measures, and yet they are being taken under pressure from all kinds of backroom deals. So I keep calling that "dictatorial," because the coalition acts as the real lapdog of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u9	Now it's gonna be funny. Because the government does things that the Christian Union sometimes doesn't want, it would be dictatorial... Well, I just don't see it anymore. This is pretty paradoxical. I really think Mr Markuszower is a great parliamentarians when he talks about the content, because sometimes we can fight a little rubbert, and sometimes we agree. But please, stick to the facts. We're a democracy. The Christian Union is called "the Christian Union," not "Green Left" and not "Group." Sometimes we disagree with the cabinet, sometimes we do. In both cases, the cabinet will hear that. That's exactly what I'm going to say in my contribution. But stay away from words like "dictatorship," because that is not the issue here. Choose your strong position as a parliamentarians, invite us to the debate, and really, then we can have very nice days. I think that is much better than the fact that we, as a parliament, are actually undermining our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you. And then let's start the debate on the content. I call Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u11	I didn't hear a question, but... Let's just say it doesn't make any sense anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u12	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u13	Yeah, exactly. He refused to face the truth, as politically correct waublers do, namely that a substantial of those street terrorists in Rotterdam, for example, were non-western immigrants. Of course, they need to be picked up and locked up, and then our country gets squished out. And as long as the Dutch Minister of Justice and Security covers up the major security problem, the Netherlands will remain unsafe. And those who hijacked that legitimate corona demonstration must therefore be arrested. But what do we see? It is unacceptable, but that corps in Rotterdam is led by Mr Westerbeke, watje Westerbeke. A real police chief makes sure that when his corps is confronted with war violence, he deals with those offenders brutally and inconspicuously...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u14	I'm going to interrupt you again. This is also a rule that we have agreed on with each other, and we do not mention it here. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). I really want to ask you to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u15	I dared to afford it, because that Chief Constable I will not mention his name has presented himself as the ventriloquist of the great wimp Grapperhaus. In the program last Sunday at WNL we saw the minister nodding all the time that man a day, one day after all that violence was bumped on his agents, so that those agents were confronted with that war violence... What did he say? He said, "We need to invest in them"; "You need to give those offenders perspective"; "We need to listen to each other"; "They need to get good housing, and education." That's incredible, isn't it?! That man better start handing out soup in South Sudan. What's that guy still doing with the cops? I say to the minister who is sitting here: if I had been Minister of Justice and Security, I would have fired that pussy I will not say his last name immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u16	I'm going to interrupt you again. I hear a number of insults again: wimpy, wimpy. I really want to ask you to conduct the debate on the content of the matter, and that is where the debate really gets better if we should address the questions to the executive and not talk about officials. I'm not just saying that. It's really important that we do that with each other. I call Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u17	Despite the above, the ineffective and even counterproductive measures, I have left out the word 'dictatorial' but I have left out the word 'dictatorial' for firm resistance, of course democratic and nonviolent. But it does require resistance, because our government is really lost. If we ask the Minister to lock up real criminals for a long time, he will not. What Minister Grapperhaus does is to punish the racket with QR codes twice as long as he puts ISIS terrorists behind bars. Terrorists are the real hobby of Minister Grapperhaus. In the book he wrote not so long ago, he fantasized about how he could cuddle with them. Now that he is a minister, he is mainly importing ISIS terrorists back to the Netherlands. That will make this minister unique.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u18	There's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u19	I'm gonna finish this. Of course, the Minister for Security, who does not take out life-threatening Muslim terrorists, but takes them back to the Netherlands on a voluntary and non-compulsory basis, is not worth a slap in the face.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u20	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Van der Werf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mr Markuszower just called for resistance. I'd like to ask him exactly what he means by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u22	Resistance to ineffective corona measures. I said it in my text: non-violent and democratic. This can be done here in the plenary room or in Rotterdam, but in a normal way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u23	What exactly does the call for "normally" resist?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u24	Violenceless and democratic; always nonviolent. The PVV says, "Always nonviolent."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u25	I think it's a bit of a silly game from Mr Markuszower, because he's hiding behind this disclaimer here. At the same time, he'll make that call. People are looking at us. They're in awe of the House of Representatives. They think, "These people know what to do." Then you legitimize the word "resistance." What do you think as a spokesman for security of the PVV, with in mind the policemen and women who were thrown into Rotterdam bricks and had to defend the fire department? That's crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u26	I'll mention a few things. That violence against those cops had nothing to do with the legitimate resistance to the ineffective corona measures. The demonstration was hijacked, especially by non-Western immigrants from West Rotterdam. Even the mayor of Rotterdam says that. Those people weren't arrested and they weren't taken care of. There were riots all over the Netherlands last weekend. Thousands of people have behaved badly. Only dozens, maybe less than 200, have been arrested. I'll give you a note. They'll be back on the street in two weeks. If I'm wrong, it'll be in four weeks. So they're not getting arrested. They're not being dealt with. The person she has to pick up and tackle is on TV talking about offering perspective, giving them good housing and training and going into dialogue with them. That is the Netherlands of Minister Grapperhaus and that weak chief of police in Rotterdam. That's why things went wrong in Rotterdam, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u28	Every person who has behaved violently there knows that the chance of getting caught is almost zero and that if they are caught, they will have to suffer for a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u29	I'm gonna have to be careful with my interruptions today, so I'm just gonna stick to my starting point. If you've been so disturbed by the riots, the hassle and violence this weekend, why do you start here yourself with the word "resistance"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u30	Resistance to the corona measures, non-violent and democratic, is important, because these measures are not effective. To mention just one of the examples... I'm not a spokesperson for myself, but at least they're not effective. And that is something you must be able to oppose as a parliament and as a citizen. By the way, everyone agrees that as a citizen you have the right to resist. There's a right to demonstrate. The Minister suddenly called it quasi-demonstration law on TV. That's a new term. I have always learned that we have demonstration law in the Netherlands, but the Minister reduced it to quasi-demonstration law. It is important that elected representatives continue to say: of course you can resist, but you can be nonviolent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u31	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u32	And today, in the shadow of Grapperhaus, Sandertje Dekker, the Minister for Legal Protection, also sits...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u33	I'm going to interrupt you again. It's the Secretary of Law. Just a little respect for the rulers. That's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u34	I won't say "Sandertje Dekker" anymore, I'll just say "Minister Sander Dekkertje," the Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr. Markuszower, let's not do this. Let's just keep it clean. It is a debate on the content and I think you have a lot to say. You are really failing yourself by conducting the debate in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u36	Okay, I'll do my best. It's also a miracle he made time for us. As the master of the ceremonies of the many feasts and parties held in his prisons, he obviously has something different to his mind than to listen to debates for two long days in this Chamber. The PVV is critical of the minister but the prisoners of the Netherlands walk away with this party nose. The only concern the criminals now have is next. If he's here, who's gonna be organizing those bangs in his prisons for the next few days? Because it's one big party in Minister Sander Dekker's prisons. Even during the lockdown when all the restaurants were closed and the whole of the Netherlands was in the curfew, this minister took care of ball in the prisons every night. Drugs, a lot of drugs, had Sander Dekker smuggled in. There's music, there's dancing, there's sex, and everything is filmed on the cell phone. Except for those times when those criminals need that same phone for a moment to take care of their cases, sometimes their murder cases, from prison. Minister Dekker also has a hobby: he likes to pardon life-long punished murderers in his spare time. Just because he gets to. But don't worry, I tell the Minister, for two days here in the Chamber, and then you can treat the prisoners of the Netherlands and treat them to nice visas. The Secretary of State for Asylum is, of course, also here today. And you will be pleased, Mr President-in-Office, to hear from Mrs Broekers-Knol. The whole world thinks our Ankie is a treasure of a lady, a really sweet woman. And that's exactly the problem, because Ankie Broekers-Knol lets everyone in and doesn't send anyone away. Everyone can come to the Netherlands from this Secretary of State, from our Ankie.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u37	I would also like to ask you: it is the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. Please stick to this naming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u38	The Secretary of State hasn't given them a homemade apple pie yet. For the rest, they get everything from the Rutte/Kaag government: our homes, our benefits, our care. And because the ministers are fucking with Grapperhaus and Dekker, they're gonna get our women, too. So the whole world loves Ankie Broekers-Knol. Except the ordinary Dutchman because the open borders of the Rutte/Kaag cabinet destroy the Netherlands completely. The asylum stream is huge. It is an invasion, an invasion of often raised, hot, combat-ready young men, often from Islamic countries. They're coming at 5,000 a month now. Every month. A constant stream of wretched people. They call themselves refugees, but they're foreign invaders. They don't come here to build, they come here to break down. They hate our culture. They hate our way of life. They hate that women are equal to men here. They hate that Jews and Christians walk freely across the street here. They hate that the gays in the Netherlands openly love each other. But they love our homes, our care, our women, our energy, our benefits. And everyone knows that these so-called asylum seekers, except for a few perhaps, are not real refugees at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you. A few interruptions. First of all, Mrs Podt van D66 and then Mrs Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u40	There's a lot to go into, but let me pick one point. Of course, we know this from the PVV: the mass immigration and the huge asylum flows. I wonder where Mr Markuszower gets that from. Does he have any figures on that? What is the idea of mass immigration based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Markuszower. And I would ask you to keep the questions and comments brief. That's what we just agreed on for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u42	I think it would be better for the debate if I continued, because in the course of my text I supported it with, among other things, costs and figures. I just mentioned that number of 5,000 a month. I think that's quite a mass. If it goes on like this, there's 60,000 a year. This is only about asylum; of course, there is also a lot of immigration coming in. Perhaps you would like to wait until the end of the text, because I think we have enough arguments to support the fact that there is mass immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u43	It is useful for Mr Markuszower to finish this section. Then I'll give you the opportunity. I won't count this as an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u44	Most so-called asylum seekers have paid a small fortune to travel here. They have often travelled through five, six safe countries before they end up in the spread Dutch bed via Ter Apel. Often they come not from a war zone at all, but from safe countries such as Morocco, Turkey and Algeria. With this policy, Broekers-Knol, the Secretary of State, facilitates ordinary trafficking in human beings. They in this Chamber and those of the government who speak of a humane asylum policy are the greatest liars and hypocrites of all. It is not human to facilitate fake refugees here in the Netherlands. It is not humane to keep our borders open so that filthy smugglers continue to abuse them through life-threatening routes. It is not humane for our own Dutch people to be forced out of their own country for strangers who hate us. It is not humane that more than 1 million Dutch people are poor, while all these foreigners get everything for free. It is not humane for Dutch people to be made a hunted minority in their own city or village. Human is to offer the real victims of war and violence safe ports in their region. They must therefore be taken into account in their region, not in ours. That's what the PVV is advocating. But, Mr. Chairman, do you know what is so insanely false? That the elite of VVD and D66 ensure that those asylum seekers are always housed in places where they are not bothered by themselves. Do you really not think that an asylum-seekers' centre will be located anywhere near where the Grapperhausen and Broekers-Knollen live? They'll watch out, the ministers and mayors, the elite. They ensure that the miserable person takes place as far away from them as possible. And if asylum seekers are at risk of getting near their residential neighborhood, they will really make it happen! It is important to note that these asylum seekers are walking around their villas on a special walking route with a large arc. Mr. Chairman. I went to Ter Apel last month and to other places where asylum seekers are or are being placed. I've been talking to people around there. With the women who are constantly harassed and forced by the danger to stay inside. With a lot of people in Ter Apel walking through the meadows at night with new loads of lucky seekers tearing up and throwing away their passports in those meadows so that they can lie that they come from war zone. I've spoken to fathers who are afraid to let their daughters ride their bikes anymore. With the woman who got kicked out of her cripple seat. With the staff member of the asylum-seekers' centre who is instructed by his bosses not to mention in particular the misconduct of asylum-seekers. With the man who was almost stabbed to death at his own apartment. The influx of asylum seekers is a disaster for the Netherlands and asylum seekers' centres are hell for those living around. Mr. Chairman. The costs of non-Western immigration are enormous for the Netherlands: 20 billion euros per year, every year. Rutte...Excuse me, the Prime Minister has already spent more than 200 billion euros on Dutch taxpayers' money, I say to the people at home, to foreign fortune seekers. Every asylum seeker entering the Netherlands costs the Netherlands more than €550,000 and if you count his followers, that costs even over the million euros. Do you know how much money that is, Mr. Chairman? If Rutte and Kaag get their way and we do not close our borders to these immigration flows, then the costs will rise, even double. It is unthinkable that these enormous costs can be absorbed by the Dutch welfare state. Every hour that we allow this to continue, about EUR 5 million disappears. I repeat: about EUR 5 million every hour. As a result, we cannot take good care of the people who live here in the Netherlands and who may need it. As a result, Dutch children will starve, and people will no longer be able to heat up in winter. We will no longer be able to pay pensions to our hard-working elderly people, and we will no longer have enough money for our care, for our homes, for our infrastructure and for our education. Mr. Chairman. It is a disgrace, especially at this time, that the cabinet closes hospitals but continuously builds new asylum seekers' centres. It is a shame that the Netherlands pays the care staff of the Taliban, terrorists in the emirate Afghanistan, but cuts off the Dutch care workers in our own country. It is disgusting that Dutch people are trampled by their own government in their own country, but that lucky seekers from Africa and retarded Middle Eastern sandbox countries are coddled by that same government. The current Dutch immigration policy is actually one major crime against the Dutch people. And they, all of you here too, who do not stop this self-hating policy, you should all be brought before a tribunal and answer for your criminal open borders policy, because you are destroying the Netherlands completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u45	Before I say anything about it myself, I see Mrs Kuik getting up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u46	We've been given the ability to speak, all of us here. And words matter. Your language matters. People here on the outside, including school classes, are looking at us, so we also have the responsibility to choose the right words, not to intimidate and threaten each other. It doesn't belong in this house. So stand up for that content. That's what we're going to debate, but this isn't enough for our house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u47	I would also like to look at Mrs Podt when it comes to the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u48	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I am here for the first time in plenary today, and it is really terrible to hear how this way of dealing with each other, with making threats. It is almost impossible to imagine that we are dealing with each other in this way. I really hope Mr. Markuszower doesn't mean to, that he might want to take it back. 'Cause I really don't think this is the way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u49	Last week we also had an extensive discussion about this: let's just not do this. The words seem intimidating, because you are pointing your words towards the Chamber, towards colleagues. Don't do that. I really appeal to you and some of my colleagues too. You don't need it, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u50	I'd still like to respond, Mr. Chairman. I didn't threaten anyone. The CPN, not to mention the PSP, the PvdA, the VVD and the CDA, I received the first interruption of the CDA, who advocated a tribunal, the tribunal on women in social insurance law, in the 1980s. But in our own period...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u51	But you know exactly what you're doing right now. Let...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u52	Someone said, "I'm not guilty of threatening or intimidating anyone." The chairman was himself a member of the D66 Group at the time. In 2018, so I assume that was agreed, the MP Maarten Groothuizen, former colleague of ours in the House of Representatives, argued in favour of a tribunal. He wanted to prosecute the criminal leaders behind modern slavery through a tribunal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mr. Markuszower, I need you to listen to me. I really want you to stay on the sidelines of the debate. You don't need this. I see you've been well prepared. We had a discussion on this last week. Once again, let us have the debate on the substance. You really don't need it. I see that you have done your research well, but a number of colleagues have also appealed to you. I would like to close this issue and I think you will come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u54	Sure. I'm shutting it down. I have here a list of six. I won't name them all now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u55	I'd love to. I shall now give you the floor again to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u56	Seven tribunals I didn't mention, but the largest tribunal...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u57	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u58	We know the tribunal, of course, because my group...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u59	You just said you didn't use those words. Then you shouldn't. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u60	Okay, thank you. The power of the microphone: what can you do about it? Mr. Chairman. Did you know that activist D66 and Green Left judges grant asylum seekers who rape women a lower sentence, because they could lose their residence permit in case of a higher sentence? Did you know that bus drivers and other staff in public transport are being abused, intimidated and harassed by asylum seekers? Did you know that asylum seekers who steal in Ter Apel are often not prosecuted and are not even punished, but instead a foul talk, and continue committing crimes a few minutes later? Did you know that there is not even a police station in Ter Apel and that the 9,000 inhabitants of Ter Apel feel permanently hunted by the thick 2,500 asylum seekers in their beautiful village? Mr. Chairman. Did you know that Dutch people are simply discriminated against in their own country? The Dutch have to wait ten years and sometimes even longer for a home, but status holders never have to wait. They'll be getting a house in a few weeks. And the VVD doesn't even think that's fast enough. Just last week, the VVD came up with the crazy plan to help status holders even faster to a house. It's not gonna stop. The hatred of the elite for the common Dutchman does not stop. Foreigners get everything, at the expense of the common Dutchman. Mr. Chairman. Did you know that only one in three illegal immigrants who have been told to leave the Netherlands actually leaves the Netherlands? Did you know that asylum seekers do not have to pay a care premium, a risk of their own and a contribution of their own, while Dutch people have to pay an average of €6,000 each year for their care? Did you know that of all the children who are now born in the three major cities, more than half are non-Western immigrants and that the Dutch are simply replaced in their own country? Did you know that 52% of welfare recipients are non-Western immigrants? Did you know that half of our prisons are full of non-Western immigrants? Did you know that immigrant thugs like hungry packers trample our streets in search of the ordinary native Dutch and especially make them a victim? Did you know that non-Western immigrants are suspected eight times more often of street robbery and Moroccans even twelve times more often than Dutch? Did you know that gay haters are mostly immigrants? Mr. Chairman. I'm really coming to my conclusion. Did you know that two weeks ago a Syrian asylum seeker wanted to commit a major suicide attack in Liverpool and that the open border policy that almost all the parties here in the Chamber are exposing us in the Netherlands to this kind of danger on a daily basis? This place is full of Syrian asylum seekers. There are radical Muslims here who are prepared to attack churches, schools, local supermarkets or anywhere else. Mr. Chairman. The PVV wants this madness, this destruction of our beautiful Netherlands to stop. The PVV wants to close the borders for all asylum seekers. Zero is zero, because the Netherlands is full. The PVV wants zero immigration from Islamic countries. And those immigrants, or their children or grandchildren, who have dual nationality and are misbehaving here, must be expelled from our country. As long as these terrible asylum seekers' centres are still open, we want to turn these centres into closed facilities, so that the Dutch people living in the Netherlands are not at risk and no longer have any trouble with those foreign invaders. But we're not there yet. The PVV wants to subject the damage to the open borders that Rutte has caused to a massive remigration offensive. The temporary status of asylum seekers is withdrawn from the PVV and all illegal immigrants allowed to stay in the Netherlands by Rutte and Broekers-Knol must all return to the country of origin or to one of the countries in the region where they come from. If this does not happen immediately, asylum seekers and illegal immigrants must be detained until then. The Netherlands can only be the Netherlands without a hostile fifth column in our midst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u61	Thank you. There are a few interruptions, first of all Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u62	I am concerned that Mr Markuszower is not allowed to explain his idea of a tribunal here. As soon as he takes that word in his mouth, turn off his microphone. I find that very worrying, because in this house, I believe that all ideas, all views and all beliefs should be openly discussed. I hear panicky reactions about that word, but apparently Mr Markuszower is under the impression that serious crimes are being committed. I miss the sincere interest in his point of view. That is why I would very much like to know the following. What crimes, in Mr Markuszower's view, may be committed? And how exactly does he see the establishment of such a tribunal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u63	Let me reply myself to the question as to why I kept the discussion brief. We're here in the house of democracy. At the moment when colleagues are addressed, whether individually or collectively, with 'there will be a tribunal; that will come', I find that intimidating. I won't allow that in this room. There are limits to the debate. We can discuss all kinds of issues. Soon you will also be given a time limit in which questions can be asked and comments made. But there's a limit. Then it's about harassment to colleagues. So that's why. I'm not gonna have this discussion anymore either. I think I have said enough about it, and it has been said enough about it last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u64	Well, then it's very interesting to know what you mean by harassment. Because I believe that a tribunal is something that belongs in a rule of law. Surely it would be foolish for crimes to be committed without being allowed to talk about whether or not these crimes should be punished?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u65	The good thing is that the President decides whether words are intimidating or not. And I classified it that way. I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u66	Thank you for your words. I would like to ask Mr Markuszower whether I can see from his remarks that he rejects the rule of law as we know it in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u67	I don't know why I would have given reason to say that. We live in a rule of law. But you can see that the rule of law is not working very well. I have not mentioned many of the elements that I have mentioned in the budget in recent years, which show that I do not think that the rule of law is working properly. I have not even mentioned, for example, those judges who trampled on all those parents of the supplement scandal. I didn't even mention that one. I would like to mention, for example, a subject that I have discussed and where the rule of law does not work. You have judges in the Netherlands who say, after a long time, that this asylum seeker cannot stay. Two-thirds of those people stay. A lot of municipalities, just where GroenLinks is in the college, then give those people illegals that are bed, bath and bread. That is a sign that the rule of law does not work, because you have judges who say: Mr or Mrs asylum seeker, you must leave. And then they'll stay. Aldermen of GroenLinks give them bed, bath and bread and thus ensure that illegality continues. That is a sign that the rule of law does not work. So we have judges who do not judge and impose very low penalties. I do not think that the rule of law is working properly, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u69	Only 10% of the rapes are solved, but 10% of the rapes are solved. So 90% of the unsubs are out there. I think that is evidence of a non-functioning rule of law. But we do live in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u70	These last words are important: 'We do live in a rule of law'. I would also point out that Mr Markuszower does not propose to set up other courts or forms of law in parallel with the rule of law that we have and which we cherish. He doesn't propose to put something next to our rule of law, in parallel to the rule of law as we know it and as we cherish it? Isn't that what Mr Markuszower says?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u71	I find the word "parallel" difficult. I have just learned from Mrs Bikker that we are in a parliament and that that parliament functions. I just learned that. I think this is about that tribunal, a word I can't say anymore. But if that parliament is working, and that parliament decides to check whether policy that has been pursued is not going towards the crime of office, I do not think it is "parallel'. We know the felony just in the law. Whether that parliament can decide to see if there have really been crimes against the Dutch people. I don't think that's "parallel." I think that should come from a parliament. So I don't really understand that word "parallel." But it's not so weird every now and then to look at what the people who led us have done to the country. That shouldn't be parallel, that should be "in", that should be "in"! That shouldn't be parallel.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u72	Thank you. Mrs Koekkoek van Volt wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u73	I fully understand that question about the parallel rule of law. I think a lot of people here with me are wondering that. I have just heard in Mr Markuszower's speech that we are giving up all the fundamental rights of people who, according to Mr Markuszower himself, would not fit in with the definition of 'the Dutch'. They come into hopeless detention, purely and simply because they exercise the right to asylum here. That is a parallel rule of law and I would like to hear Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u74	No, just not detention. People are coming in. Yeah, the PVV says, "You're supposed to make sure no one comes in anymore." So shut down all asylum seekers' centers and create a great pushback force. We now see in Poland that that just works. So create a great pushback force and keep all those asylum seekers, who are not real refugees, but fake refugees, away from us. Then you've got a bunch of people already sitting here. Those establishments, those asylum-seekers' centres, must of course be closed down. That is not detention, because the violence that comes from those asylum-seekers' centres and the nuisance that asylum-seekers cause in the immediate vicinity are enormous. Detention? I'm just saying shut it down. Make those things closed settings. That also creates an opposite effect. This is because there is a suction effect. Everyone loves Mrs. Ankie Broekers-Knol, our Secretary of State. It's got a sucking effect. The whole world knows: we have to be in the Netherlands. But if they know you're going to be in a closed facility in the Netherlands, you'll still have freedom of movement and of course you'll also get to eat..... and that it's not all that pleasant here, then they don't come anymore. Then you take care of it...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u76	...that they stay in their region.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u77	A little shorter, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u78	We can make a semantic game of this: "fun, a closed facility" and "oh, detention"! But what's the difference? The moment someone gets stuck and can't get out of there, that's detention. When that happens only because of the fact that someone is exercising the right to asylum, we live in a parallel rule of law, which we do not have to make difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u79	It's even the other way around. Do you know who really has detention? The people who live near those asylum seekers' centres. They can't go out anymore. They have self-imposed detention. We impose detention on the immediate vicinity of any asylum seekers' centres that the Secretary of State is now building. The women can't go out anymore, the girls can't go to school normally and the men can't just mower their lawn anymore. I talked to them. They're just getting stabbed in front of their own house. Sorry, almost stabbed to death; I shouldn't lie. They're almost stabbed to death. It just happened. I talked to those dads. They say: we can't let our daughters ride late here at night, because it's unsafe here. The real people who are now being held are the people who live near those asylum seekers' centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mrs. Koekkoek, finally. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u81	It's hard because it's going to be a semantic game. I have heard this before in Mr Markuszower's speech on what is and is not part of the rule of law and what has been and has not been said. We are trying to understand each other in this debate. The moment we start playing each other and not speaking each other's words, the debate is over. The moment Mr Markuszower says here, "Do you know who really has detention?', We are still not talking about the same rule of law and the same rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u82	I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK. You can ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u83	I was wondering if Mr Markuszower was ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u84	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u85	Good! I really like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u86	We can ask Mr Markuszower if he still wants to continue, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u87	I'm not gonna encourage him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u88	What is your question, your interruption? A brief question or comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u89	I notice from Mr Markuszower that he is a bit excited. I wonder how he himself thinks his contribution is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u90	Self-reflection isn't really my greatest strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u91	This is actually too serious to laugh about, because if you listen to those lyrics, you feel like you're not in the budget treatment of Justice and Security, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u92	I would like to ask you a question or a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u93	Mr President, I really am in my second sentence! This is my first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u94	Yeah, but still.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u95	I have a serious question. I would like to put that question first by saying that we are in the debate on the budget of Justice and Security and not in the general extreme right or something. My question is very clear. Mr Markuszower was concerned about the victims of the premium crime. They have been wronged a great deal. I wonder how he reflects on the reports of the Council of State and the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u96	Mr Azarkan is now addressing a very large subject. This is a very complicated question, so the answer is long. I've seen that the big problem is that judges could have known that the government was trampled on those people, but didn't do anything about it. I think I have already said something about this in my text, or I would like to say that if I had taken over the other part. They did it for their own good. They were afraid of the Council of State. The tax authorities just didn't give them some documents, and the judges actually let them. A good judge. Moreover, I am in favour of elected judges, so that we can replace the bad judges themselves as a people... I hear Minister Grapperhaus say something, but I have been in favour of that for a long time. The PVV has been advocating this for a long time. We want elected judges, because the non-functioning judges and the judges who trampled on those people in the bonus affair must of course all go away. They can write those reports themselves. I just said crazy about myself that I am not so strong in self-reflection, but of course those judges are not strong in self-reflection at all, because they have failed, they have trampled people and they have not given justice but have wronged. But they're still in place and they get to write their own reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u97	I think Mr Markuszower can really learn something from the self-reflection that was there with the judges last week. They really looked very deeply and said that we did not give these people legal protection on balance. That is an important point, because we are talking about legal protection, justice and security, asylum and immigration. Mr Markuszower can really learn something from that. This is what I'm talking about. This group has also been selected on low income; they have been discriminated against on low income and they have been discriminated against on nationality. Then Mr Markuszower actually says that there are a lot of people who are profiteers in this country, that they should actually get out of this country and that those people get benefits that they don't do anything for. How can you defend these people on the one hand, I say through you, President, because they have not had legal protection and because they have been trampled by our government and, on the other hand, give them a hell of a kick in the second part of your contribution? Why are you doing this, Mr. Markuszower?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u98	I didn't do that in this contribution. That's just not true. Everyone here in the Netherlands has equal rights. All Dutch people enjoy equal rights, but if people behave badly, they break the law. I have said: they break the law and happen to have a double nationality, you can take that element, apply a penalty-complicating measure, take Dutch nationality and send them back to their country of origin. That may be true, but if people didn't misbehave, a lot of the victims of the premium affair wouldn't be misbehaved. Of course, it's a terrible shame for the government to trample on them. We agree on that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u99	Now Mr Markuszower says that if he behaves badly, he will receive a different treatment than I do. That's what he says, because I have a different nationality. I would just like to say that Mr Markuszower says that my father once lived in another country and came here and that I have a different nationality. Is that what Mr Markuszower says?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u100	That's what the PVV has been saying for a long time. We are equal in that, by the way, because I have the same kind of background. I would like to say to Mr Azarkan: renounce that other nationality. That's what I did. But if Mr. Azarkan has such a problem... This House of Representatives has long adopted the same principle as law. If terrorists have a dual nationality, their Dutch nationality may be taken away. That's the law for a long time. All the PVV says is, expand that bit. But this Chamber has been beyond the threshold of the principle for a long time that people of dual nationality can be punished differently from those of single nationality, fortunately, I would say. So Mr Azarkan should not now pretend that I have a very crazy, far-reaching position. In the rule of law that Mr Azarkan also lives in, this principle has long been law and rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u101	Mr Markuszower is a lawyer himself. He said in the beginning that it's punishing. That's different from the law we know, because it's about circumstances in which you can take away someone's Dutch identity if they have a second nationality. That's really something else. We know from Mr Markuszower that he is with a party that actually wants Muslims to be treated differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u102	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u103	From Mr Markuszower we know...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u104	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u105	Then let him be honest about that. I think his story is a little cowardly, too. He's hiding behind things a little bit. Just be clear! You come one way for people because they are victims of the surcharges, but on the other hand you think that all these people should not be given the same legal protection. Then be clear about that! Do not run away from that by saying that you have done so here! No, what do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u106	I think Mr Azarkan is turning it into a discussion that is not at all there. If people are innocent they have done nothing wrong they should not be punished. That's what happened to a lot of people in that supplemental scandal. If the Tax Department doesn't give exculpatory evidence to the judge, the judges are too lazy to ask for those documents and just like a muck of sheep moths and moths with the elite because they're afraid of their future jobs or the Council of State, which is run by a D66 bobo, that's injustice. But if people haven't behaved badly, they shouldn't be punished. That makes sense to me. And if people do misbehave, they must be severely punished, whoever they are! If we see that a person happens to have a dual nationality and has committed violence, then what is that person going to do in our country? Then we can send him back to his own country...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u107	A little short, but this is your sixth interruption, isn't it? You're in charge of your own interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u108	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I've got three more. Thank you. No, three? Six, seven, eight...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u109	No, from now on, three more. I call Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u110	Yeah, well, I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u111	Yeah, that's right. Blame the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u112	Self-reflection's been spent on me, too, you know. I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u113	You can think about it for a while. Let me give Mr Ceder the floor first. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u114	I'd like you to do that. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u115	Mr Cedar, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u116	I have a question, in addition to what Mr Azarkan said. He asked you about the Council of State report. I hear you saying that it's terrible that judges are oppressing people, and that there has to be more room for those people. At the same time, I hear you say about asylum legislation that it should actually be even stricter. According to you, any form of a harrowing test should be removed from the table. It's got to be tighter, tighter, tighter. The same Council of State stated in the investigation that, despite the fact that the mission was aimed at the premium affair, they also encountered foreign affairs that they had to scratch behind their ears. There is an annex containing all the foreign affairs points that we say: I think we should look at this too, we should see if people are not oppressed. Here's what I want to ask you. If you truly believe that judges should not oppress people and that we should apply fair justice, do you not agree that this should also apply to foreign affairs, to people seeking asylum here? And if so, do you agree with me that your story is at least inconsistent?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u117	No. I do not agree with Mr Ceder that it is inconsistent. I believe that the Dutch who live here and are here, who are just Dutch citizens, have certain rights and that asylum seekers, people from outside, have a different kind of rights. I do agree with Mr Ceder that our legal system, our all systems, our Netherlands, cannot cope with the continuous influx of so many asylum seekers. That's one of the reasons to just stop. I have not even argued for a stricter asylum policy, but not for an asylum policy. We have to cope with zero more asylum seekers, because our country of origin and our judges, I would also like to give in to Mr Ceder... cannot cope with this continuous influx, that influx, of mostly 77%, men. We can't handle it. We can't handle it on every level. We can't handle it financially. We can't handle it in terms of security. And the judiciary cannot handle it either, says Mr Ceder, and I believe him directly. If we all see that we can't handle it, do you know what we should do with it? Then we have to stop...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u119	... so that we can adequately protect our own Dutch people, our own people, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u120	Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u121	... adequate...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u122	You really need to be shorter. You're passionate about it, I see, but it's got to be a little shorter. No, Mr. Markuszower. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr Markuszower often talks about suspects, and then he comes up with all kinds of statistics. Well, there's people in there who are suspects, but aren't ultimately convicted by the judge. Why do you always talk about suspects? You were once a suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u124	No, you're not!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u125	That means that you would be included in those statistics. But that's not the point. The point is that you always talk about suspects, when we have the starting point that people are innocent until proven guilty, even if they are suspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u126	The fact that you're suspected of a crime does, of course, mean something. But I really didn't just talk about suspects. I'll look it up for you, but I know it's a little out of my head. Half of the prisoners, so convicted, are non-Western immigrants. So it's not like I'm always talking about suspects in my input. I refer to prisons or asylum seekers convicted of crimes. One in three convicts for destruction or open violence, for example, is a non-Western immigrant. So I'm not just talking about suspects. However, I think that the figures on suspects are also very clear. For example, Moroccan young people are suspected 12 times as often. I think I said that. I can't find it that fast, but they're 12 times more likely to be suspected of a crime. Yeah, that sounds like something to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr. Azarkan? No. Mr. Markuszower, that brings you to the end of your speech. Thanks for that. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Michon-Derkzen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u128	Thank you, Mr President. It is honourable to be able to speak on behalf of the VVD here today on such an important subject. After me, Peter Valstar speaks. He's making his maiden speech today, but I don't want to leave it unmentioned that we've prepared this debate with all the JenV spokesmen. That is Mr Ellian, Mr Verhuijlen and Mrs Rajkowski. All have a very relevant experience on this file. We are bound to do so, as our predecessors did. Unfortunately, although we cannot achieve a 100% safe society, we can do everything we can to make the world around us as safe as possible. Because feeling safe might be the most important thing in your life. Without it, the rest is worthless. That's why I'm so grateful for all those people who are ready to jump in front of us day in, day out. Literally, as we saw last weekend. First of all, of course, we are talking about our police, the fire department and the paramedics. With that bizarre weekend over, I want to say to them once again literally: the VVD is incredibly proud of you, and we find it shocking and shocking that people think you should attack and attack. These people should be ashamed of themselves. This has nothing to do with demonstrating. This is deliberate rioting. Mr. Chairman. Our agents on the street are always at risk. That's part of their job. But it's really going from bad to worse. I'd like to ask the Minister about the equipment of agents. Does anyone who needs that in the first half of next year have that power surge weapon...................................................................................................... I'd like a clear answer to that. The police say they want to work more with drones. How does the Minister view this? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is still a safe and free country, but it is a country with a lot of serious drug crime directly below the surface. I am putting my focus on this approach today. For years, drug crime was not visible in everyday life. That's really changed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u129	I make out that Mrs. Michon is done with the block of police. I have a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u130	With the block of riots.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u131	It's the police that matters to me. I have to hand it to the VVD: if one party is able to put the image that she stands for more blue on the street, then it is the VVD. But unfortunately, when we look at the figures, we see that the capacity of the police is still not back at 2012/2013 level. I would like to ask Mrs Michon, since of course the VVD has been in power all along: what does she think of this now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u132	Yeah, I was expecting this question, too. And I'm just glad you're saying, you're sketching the picture you're standing in front of the police. I stand for the police; we did and we do. What we have seen in recent years is that, as in so many sectors, there is also a huge ageing population, which means that the police must also train accelerated agents to stay on that agreed operational strength: those 52,000 men and women blue on the street, who are all so nice to us and do that good work. And we are talking about what is needed to ensure that this operational strength is maintained. We often have a debate on this with each other, including in committees. The Minister has indicated that I am shortening the training of the Police Academy so that they can get on the streets faster, so that we can get that blue back on the street faster. We have given a tremendous financial boost to this budget, and also to the General Political Reviews with the Hermans motion, to ensure that there is more blue in the street. So I'm actually thanking you for encouraging me to keep doing that. And I will continue to do so, because I want the agreed 52,000 operational blue on the street to actually be able to do their job on the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u133	Yeah, these are nice words. And honesty commands me to say: I believe Mrs Michon when she says "I stand in front of the police"; I have no doubt about that. But my question was actually about something else, namely that there has been cuts in the police and that those cuts have never really been fully repaired. And let's face it, we weren't mugged by that big group of cops retiring, of course. Of course, we have seen for a long time that the ageing population and the large outflow were coming. So my question is again to the VVD, to Mrs Michon: shouldn't she honestly admit that it is something else that you say "I stand in front of the police," then all these years investing in the police and ensuring that the level is maintained, and that we avoid a shortage that we have seen coming for a long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u134	Mrs Ellemeet refers to the start of Rutte II, when we were in a huge crisis with the country, and where we also asked the police to help us solve that crisis. That was very painful. That was also extremely painful for my group. Afterwards, when we could do that again, co-opted on the initiative of the VVD always with the police, where that was possible. We have done this occasionally, for example for the equipment. We did this in a structural way last August: almost half a billion in total for safety. That is what we did at the APB, as has just been said, with the Hermans motion. Where there is any possibility of supplementing the police financially, my group will always do so, in view of that operational strength, which must be in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u135	Actually, I think of that as a hand-off. Look, at Rutte II, we saw a lot of cops disappear, because Balkenende IV sent 3,000 away. My group, together with the VVD and the CDA, managed to keep that 3,000. And indeed, at the start of Rutte II it went wrong: there was half a billion cuts. And that never worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u136	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u137	Now I hear Mrs Michon say: where we can add, we shall do so. The Hermans motion is not enough for that. I believe that we received a letter from the ACP this morning, in which it states that additional to the 650 million for the chain of law, 300 million is really needed for the police. Is Mrs Michon-Derkzen going to make a proposal to that effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u138	I thank Mrs Helder for this question. I want this minister to direct on those numbers of operational strength that we have agreed on. So when I hear this minister say in the media, "I've been a little bit mugged by that big aging wave," I find that painful, because you can send on this. I want him to send that because I want us to always have those agreed 52,000 operational agents on the street. Indeed, I read that letter from the unions this morning. I would also like to ask the Minister whether, with the momentum of August and the extra impetus of the funds of the Hermans motion, we can now, in structural terms, achieve those agreed numbers, and if not, what is needed for that. So I will also ask him for a response to this very point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u139	We have a huge problem with organized crime in the Netherlands. There's hardly any crime money taken. Neighborhood cops are barely found in the neighborhoods anymore. Detectives aren't enough; things are building up. The Police College has serious problems, so the influx will not be reached in the coming years, or at least not from the qualitative level that we would really like. So how can the VVD say here that it stands for the police and security, as the VVD has always promised in every election campaign and over and over again, but this, after ten years in power, is the state of our security and our police? How is that even possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u140	When Mr Van Nispen says that it squeaks and cracks at the police, that they have an enormous workload, that they stand in the wind every day with their heads in the wind and they get more and more violence and if he asks how they can handle it, then I am totally on his side. I'm totally on his side. So I would also like to say to the police here: "You are doing a good job. Hang in there. I stand behind you and I help you." Mr Van Nispen says that there is always a financial squeeze. I'll see where the room is. We did that in August. That's what we did in the APB. We'll see where the room is to give the police a financial boost. We'll see if they can get on the streets faster by asking the minister: if we shorten police training, is it still possible? Can we still do that? Do we still have high-quality policemen on the streets if we can also use their services more quickly? I would like to invite Mr Van Nispen to tell us what else is needed, because my group is doing everything in its power to ensure that we have sufficient and high-quality policemen who can do their job. I would particularly like to congratulate them on the work they do every day in very difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u141	The latter is self-evident, but the VVD has not done its utmost in recent years to ensure the quality of our police and a good state of safety. I blame the VVD for that. I've been doing that for years. That extra money was late, way too late. How is that even possible? It's too little, too. Mrs. Michon knows that. If she says she's going to use this debate to ask the Minister if it's enough, then she knows what the answer is, because it's not enough. Mrs. Michon knows that. Mrs Helder's question is therefore justified. What will the VVD do in the next two days to see what more can be done for the coming years? Or are we going to hear the answer that it becomes part of the formation? Then I have the specific question: what is the VVD's commitment to formation? What can the police, the prosecution and the judiciary count on in the coming years in terms of stable and robust funding, which everyone has been crying out for for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u142	Mr Van Nispen asks a lot of questions in a row, but his last question has stuck. He asked, "What comes out of the formation?" I hope we're gonna see that soon. In any case, you can count on the VVD always to ensure that security comes out of any discussion, as we have always done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u143	Mr Van Nispen's question was also what the commitment of the VVD will be for the next two days, also in terms of results.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u144	Yes. I have sheets full of what I would very much like to say about this now. I believe that this minister should steer towards the agreed operational objective of 52,000 agents on the streets. I also asked him, through Mrs Helder's question, to respond to the emergency cry of the unions. That's my answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u145	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u146	We're seeing more and more serious drug crime under the surface. So that's what I want to talk about today. For years, drug crime was not visible in everyday life. That is really different now, because our children can see in the schoolyard that other children are recruited to deliver packages. Or think of the entrepreneur who works hard for every penny and sees that he passes it to his neighbor, a shopkeeper where miraculously no one ever gets into the business, but who does drive a fat car. You could be on your way to a grocery store while the bullets are flying around your ears. The absolute low point was reached with the murders of Derk Wiersum and Peter R. de Vries. Those were people who fought every day for security and justice. That has shocked our entire country. It has shocked and even damaged our rule of law, but the rule of law must and will prevail. Mr. Chairman. I feel responsible for doing whatever it takes from this place. That starts with money. I am therefore pleased that, at the express request of the VVD, the cabinet has been able to arrange an additional 0.5 billion a year to tackle serious drug crime further and more firmly. Now the VVD wants us to be crystal clear about what we are going to do with it and what the ambition is. How many extra people in FTE is this gonna bring to the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary, the FIOD, customs and all the investigation services? What results can we expect? What's the Minister sending? It's tricky. See the taking away of criminal property. Everyone wants an unfairly earned car taken away, but that still doesn't happen. Every year, we see very poor results when we take them away. Besides extra money, we also need to protect the people who need it. Journalists, judges, lawyers, mayors and politicians are increasingly confronted with violence and threats. A criminal trial can't take place without a major security operation. It's outrageous, but a mayor needs security these days because he's closing a drug house. Same for crime fighters who fear for their lives because they're trying to put drug criminals behind bars. So we need to make sure that the right people are eligible for security and that it is properly implemented. The Bos Committee has put forward many sensible proposals for this in a splendid report. It is our duty to do so. It also contains important recommendations. For example, the study of how much information can be legally collected and shared. I would also like to mention the discussion on security with the person concerned. The third important point for my group is to look at the capacity for this surveillance and security so that we do not lose people we need so badly in our basic police care. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he supports these three points and how he ensures that the necessary resources become structurally available. Then there are a number of points about this organized drug crime. It starts in the neighborhood. Power in the neighborhood is the core of good police work by the neighborhood cop. The district cop knows his pappenheimers. He works with the schools, with the youth boas and with key figures in the neighborhood. And that's under pressure. Neighborhood agents are pulled away for other things, for example for demonstrations. It's beeping and cracking. Then it is a good thing that my group leader during the APB, with the support of almost all colleagues, has managed to arrange 200 million for this in order to make our country safer. More than half of that, we're gonna bet on 700 extra district agents. We've been able to read that we can see the first 300 district agents since 2024. My question to the Minister is whether we can speed it up. The Minister has indicated that the 700 additional district agents are distributed in consultation with the regional mayors. How's this going? Is this bull business? What's the Minister's bet on? More district agents in the problem areas we know in our country or more district agents in growing communities? Because as much as we hate it, for young children, it is still very attractive to make money quickly with crime. That often starts small but once you're in it, come out again, especially if you still have some problems at home and things don't go so well at school either. On the street the first steps in crime are quickly taken: just stand on the lookout, drop off a package. The question with these really younger children of 10 years, for example, is often whether they are the perpetrator or the victim. What if you're a victim of criminal exploitation? Isn't that just a form of human trafficking and therefore a form of undermining crime? The question is whether these young children should be punished. As far as my group is concerned, punishment and care for this group must go hand in hand to offer them a serious opportunity to choose a different path. But anyone who does not seize that opportunity, as far as my group is concerned, we are taking it harder than before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u147	I find it very interesting what Mrs Michon is saying here and I agree with her. When it comes to young children, it's a question of whether they're victims or unsubs. For this reason, my colleague Kröger and I will make a proposal to give, under strict conditions, a statement on behaviour to young people who, when they are underage, have once gone wrong and therefore have a criminal record. I think that is very much in line with Mrs Michon's speech. We want those kids, those young people, to get out of that criminal world and get them on the right track. Could she be excited about this, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u148	I always look with enthusiasm at the proposals made by colleagues. I'll do the same in your case. However, I would like to make a clear distinction between very young children who start with a criminal career and young children who are persistent recidivists and who, as far as I am concerned, we are tackling them harder. So, as far as my group is concerned, there is a distinction between them. But I will look very seriously at your proposal. Mr. Chairman. Whoever doesn't seize this opportunity, we're gonna take it harder than before. As far as my group is concerned, I have already said that small crime victims should be notified to the Security House. Then we'll look directly at the brothers and sisters. Can the Minister arrange that? Because the chance that they too are slipping is lifelong. Punishment tailored to the young criminal, preferably in the neighborhood where it goes wrong and where the youngster is known. That's why the VVD is looking at the district court with interest. What are the experiences so far in Rotterdam-Zuid and Amsterdam? What's the status on the right-hand side? Does that work? When are we gonna hear more about that? In the neighborhoods, the police can't do it alone. In addition to a sufficient number of district agents, there must also be sufficient investigative capacity, especially in order to have an answer to these minor offences. They must not remain on the shelf; they must also be dealt with. Does the Minister agree with the VVD? The neighborhood cop works closely with the enforcers, the boas. With the Hermans motion, which was mentioned earlier, there is an additional 25 million for more enforcers. It is good that the Minister has taken the first steps with his vision of the boa. That was a very useful, beautiful piece. I very much look forward to the final document. I would ask the Minister to devote more text to the green boas in the final version. For this, too, money has been released with the Hermans motion: 5 million extra. The green boas do much more than just look after our nature. They play an important role in tackling drug crime. They'll find that barn full of hemp. They think it's drug waste. So they have to be equipped for that, too. What does this task of the green boa mean for its equipment and above all for cooperation between the green boa and the police? I hope that the Minister will give a concrete answer here in the final document, with that view on the boa. Can the Minister confirm in this debate that this vision document is the basis for the distribution of the 5 million additional funds for the green boa? This vision shows that the Minister takes the task of the boa very seriously in the security domain, and rightly so. In that context, I really do not understand that the Minister sees no problem in wearing a headscarf by enforcers, by boas. This discussion takes place in a number of major cities. There's a reason we agreed that the authorities should wear uniforms. That radiates neutrality, and there is no place in it for expressing your faith. The minister says he thinks the boa uniform is a local issue, but this minister is responsible for the whole system in which boas operate. That is why I want the Minister to change the national regulations to include rules on the uniform. If the Minister does not want to do so, I have asked him written questions about this. Mr President, back to the serious drug crime. Of course, it all starts with the drug trade. That's lucrative for a young boy. They're often boys 10, 12 years old, but also for the big drug lords. They are both sensitive to money and status, each on their own scale. The big boys get away with a much lower sentence than the 12 years ahead, and that has to be broken. The VVD wants the sale to minors, including the sale to the drug runners, to be applied as a criminal offence at the prosecution's request. What does the Minister think about this? Is the Minister aware that the police need to identify seven unique buyers in order to get a file on drug trafficking? Many of the perpetrators are now convicted of possession rather than trade from the point of view of the burden of proof. Does the minister want to talk to the state's attorney's office to change this, too? Drug trafficking often starts abroad, where the drugs go into the container. The Netherlands also has its own drug labs, which we often see as a transit country for drugs. As far as the VVD is concerned, we're going after the drug trade at the source. Can the Minister confirm that with the extra money we station Dutch agents in South America, in the source countries, in order to identify drug lines earlier and prevent imports? The moment the drugs enter our country, we need to find out more effectively. The ports remain a weak link. So it is good that there will be additional capacity for customs and police and that the exhalers, who take the drugs out of the containers, can now be punished more severely. The VVD also wants more use to be made of drones to see these extractors faster and to catch them sooner. Customs would like that, too. Can you do that within the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u149	I have a question for Mrs Michon. The Fundament report was discussed earlier, while the police say in a letter today: the foundation is not in order; we just need 300 million for that; it is code black with the police. Those neighborhood agents you dream of, they're long gone. They don't exist at all, because they don't see the neighborhood. This is another political wish; it is a political wish, because now we have to station police officers abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u150	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u151	After ten years of shouting "blue on the street," there are tens of thousands of cops too few. What aren't we gonna do anymore? What's the VVD's choice if we want the cops in the neighborhood? That's what I want. We want to tackle organized crime. That's what I want. What are we gonna do? What choices do we make?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u152	I really think this is an entirely official discussion. The police can't choose not to do anything. All investigative services cannot choose not to do anything, because they have to deal with that where the need is high. And they always do. You can see that now that drug crime is becoming a huge problem in the Netherlands, so the police must also focus on it. And that's what they do in full width. Not only do the police, but they do the same; the green boa is part of it, as I have just said; the FIOD is part of it, the customs are part of it. With this extra sum from the summer, we have also strengthened the various services working on it so that they can deal with this problem. So you can't say to the police: leave the accident for a while, because we don't have time for that right now. So they always do everything, and they always do. That's why they're doing such good work, why we can't do without them and why we have to treasure their good work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u153	So you are right to answer that if we do not add 350 million, then we will have to choose what we no longer do. You also know that it is not enough; you can present everything, using drones and perhaps other companies to secure things, but that is just bullshit. So without that 350 million, we're gonna have to make those choices. So now we're gonna argue with each other that we're gonna get that 300?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u154	I'd like to ask you to talk through the chairman. That doesn't mean you, it means the president. I think we know it. Mrs. Michon-Derkzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u155	We got an extra half a billion on security in August. We still have no idea with each other how much extra FTE that leads to, at which department, at which investigation service, at the police, at the D.A.'s office, at ZM. I just asked the Minister about that. And you're already saying, can you say 300 million more, because there's too little anyway? I asked this Minister at the beginning of my speech: where does half a billion go? How much extra FTE at which organization, what ambitions and what results are behind it? I'm asking this minister: if we have 52,000 operational agents agreed, blue on the street, 52,000, are we gonna make it, yes or no? That's what I asked the Minister. I'd like to send you on that. You can always call me on that, but I hear Mrs Kathmann say that it is too little anyway, 300 million more. I want to hear the Minister's answers to the questions I asked. Then we'll see if we can meet the objectives we've agreed on. Then we're gonna agree on whatever ambition we think is real, for example when it comes to taking it away. I think we should say here: what do we want to see of the money we put into all these services? And then I'll talk to you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u156	It is not that we are talking about police deficits for the first time in JenV's budget treatment today. Everyone can do the math, and the math is presented to you. With the Hermans motion, with everything that comes with it, there is a fundamental shortage, even to have the basis in order, of 300 million in the police force. So again, what does the VVD intend not to do anymore if they don't plead for that 300 million? Because we all have those answers from the Minister a long time ago, and I really don't have to wait for them anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mrs Kathmann does not have the Minister's answers, because Mrs Kathmann does not know how much extra FTE comes out of that half-billion that we added in August throughout the criminal justice chain. So right now, pleading for more money, I think I'm putting the horse behind the cart. Again, where that is necessary to live up to the agreements we have made, she will find me at her side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u158	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u159	I was at the pickups from the containers in the harbor. I thought that's what Mrs. Kathmann is for. But no, we've had it. Then the proceeds for which the criminals do it all. There's an incredible amount of drug money circulating in our country. That money is devastating and disruptive. Everything and everyone is bought or purchased. It's paid off. Those money flows must be broken and criminal assets must be taken away. The temptation of money starts with young children, because money is status. I would like to ask the Minister, if we can extend the Rotterdam patser's approach, to take away from those children the stuff bought with criminal money. Thanks to the additional resources, services such as the FIU and the FIOD can also give better follow-up to signals from suspicious money flows. It's very important. But what stands in their way now, I would like to ask the Minister. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are working towards at least half a billion taken-off assets per year from 2024. If the bill is going to help us with this, I ask the Minister. Finally, on drug money. The facilitators are killing me: brokers, notaries and lawyers who don't report, or worse yet, cooperate in money laundering themselves. How can we beat up these rotten apples in these professional groups? As far as I am concerned, this must be done by using criminal law alongside disciplinary law. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. In order to tackle undermining, it is essential that services cooperate effectively. Only you're faster, but together you're stronger. Working together means sharing information and we do so within a clear legal framework, as far as I am concerned. I therefore welcome the Data Sharing Partnerships Act. This law is desperately needed. That's what I hear from every work visit. From my contact with my colleagues from the Upper Chamber, I understand that they are now awaiting a response from the Minister in response to the criticism of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. What is the case with the trial, I ask the Minister. Can he also briefly comment on this criticism? Mr. Chairman. Then the MIT, speaking of cooperation. We have discussed this in detail over the last few months: a partnership in which we are set up. The urgency of drug crime makes it necessary to speed up. That MIT was established and at the same time work was done on its establishment. Speed is therefore needed, but the contours of such an important new organisation must be clear. As far as my group is concerned, this clarity is needed, but I remain critical. For the VVD it is and remains important that the MIT does not parasitize on existing services, as they need their people very much to do their own important work. In addition, we must ensure that no duplication of work is done and that it remains clear who is responsible for what. I want to give MIT the benefit of the doubt under conditions. The core thing for me is that operational interventions should take place under the competent authority, such as, for example, the Public Prosecutor, and that there should be coordination between these operational interventions with the parent organisations, such as the police and the FIOD. If we can make that appointment, I'll ask the Minister through you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u160	Thank you. Let me take a look at Mr Azarkan van DENK for an interruption. He was a little earlier. Then Mrs. Helder, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u161	It's also worth a sweet thing to my party if we can deal with crime together. It also includes the possibility of sharing that data. But the law that's in the First Chamber is really rattling on all sides. Of this, the Dutch Data Protection Authority says that it opens the door wide to a subsequent surcharge scandal. This can't be! There are no guarantees, the information that is shared can get into the wrong hands and lead to abuse. We shouldn't want that to happen. How does Mrs Michon-Derkzen view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u162	This law, which Mr Azarkan is talking about, has been discussed in detail in this Chamber. It has been adopted in this Chamber and then goes to the First Chamber, even before their reflections, as is their job. At that time, there will be a firm response from the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I find that unfortunate in terms of timing, I say in all honesty, because you want to have such a reaction earlier in the process, so that you can take it with you. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how that is possible. How can you, say, get a contribution from the Personal Data Authority one by twelve in this solidity? How'd that go? But my group also voted in favour of that law. We were in favour of this law, because it is necessary to share information in partnerships to tackle crime. Wherever you are, in any city, the mayors are all asking for this. They cannot do their job now in a good way to deal with this crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u163	That you voted in favour was well known to me. You are pleading for it here and you can, let us say, wander in good faith. In my opinion, the Dutch Data Protection Authority says that we should not want this to happen. But we see this a lot more often. It is also about the law that is now here, which has been declared controversial, about how we deal with NCTV. Of this, the Council of State and also the Personal Data Authority say: this does not provide a proper guarantee. I understand that the VVD, which itself of course stated that they are the crimefighters... In practice, they don't make that happen at all, but it often serves as a kind of shield against the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u164	But your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u165	My question is: should we take this seriously, so that in future we avoid accidents and do justice to the institutions we have set up to have them advise on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u166	I find this annoying by Mr Azarkan. I take my job very seriously. Every bill I've dealt with here, I've studied it well. I have an opinion on that. That may be different from yours, and it may be different from yours, but don't tell me that I'm not doing my job properly. I'm doing my job as best I can. We can't agree. You can say: you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u167	I'd like to go through the chairman. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u168	Mr Azarkan can say that you do not respect the opinions of the institutions we have before that. I read them carefully, I judge them, I make my assessment, and then we have the debate here. So I stand for everything I've done in all the legislation we pass through here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u169	I have said that anyone can, of course, make a mistake or wander in good faith. I didn't say the job wasn't doing well. What I'm saying is that we've appointed institutions. Some are High Colleges of State. We've given it a role. We saw in the surcharge scandal that they ring the bell on time, but then we simply do too little with it as a Chamber and also as a cabinet. If such institutions warn us beforehand, then my question to Mrs Michon-Derkzen is the following. We must strike a balance between the guarantees we offer in the rule of law and the fight against crime. We should not rush one thing because we very much want to do so and then throw it away from privacy, from human rights, from the rule of law. That's my question. How do we find that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u170	All the advice from the High Colleges such as the Council of State, but also that we get in consultation with a bill, I read well, I study. I make my own assessment, I put it to my group and I come here with a position on a law. Then we'll talk about that, and then the law goes on. I haven't strayed by any law in good faith. What I have done here is the position of my group. You may think otherwise, but I'll weigh it. I weigh all these opinions and then we have the debate on them. This law has gone to the First Chamber. I would like that law to be passed because it is urgently needed to tackle crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u171	Mrs Helder, PVV and then Mrs Kröger, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u172	About MIT. There is a two-minute debate on this, but there is a danger that it will not happen, and I hear Mrs Michon-Derkzen now arguing in favour of it. What does she mean by "giving MIT the benefit of the doubt"? Look, once it's up and running, you can't get it out. My group simply does not want it, given what we have all heard in the round table. So many hooks and eyes, that's just not gonna be him. My group does not want MIT. So I would like to hear from my colleague in the VVD what she means by 'give the benefit of the doubt'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u173	I spoke very critically about the MIT and organised the round table together with Mrs Helder. Actually, we've moved in together to get sharper: what is the objective of that MIT, how does it work, how does it relate to the work of the services that are underneath? We have asked a huge number of questions in a written consultation and examined all the answers. I'm also in the Chamber trying to solve problems. Then I think: can MIT help with the problem of organized drug crime? In this way, it is tilted from critical to positive-critical to me. I will continue to follow it critically on the points I have mentioned. But I can see that the cooperation between all the services involved is what they call phenomenon analyses; I do not think that a very friendly word is needed to get wider records, so to speak, of the problem that is going on. I still remain critical: are there enough people left behind in the mother organisation, are they not drained, are the authority, the relationship of authority, standing? But with that I would say: we must now give the MIT a boost and let it move away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u174	I'm a little surprised. You shouldn't really mention names, but I do that in a positive way. It is a fact that Professor Fijnaut has made it clear that other units are being parasitized. We hear that from the people in the workplace. People who are indispensable are removed from units to be positioned further into that MIT. Doesn't that make it any different for you? Because that's what I heard you say. But then you're gonna be positive-critical, and I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u175	This was indeed one of the points that we raised in the round table and which also came back in detail in that written consultation. Then you see two things. You can see that those numbers aren't so bad and that whoever goes to MIT will be replaced. There's extra money for that with those parent organizations. So there's an exchange of people in there. So also the people who go to MIT stay in contact with the parent organizations. So, for example, I was very critical of this point. I do like Mrs Helder to point that out. When I read that whole written consultation, I have to conclude that precisely this cross-pollination between the mother organisation and the MIT, and thus the support that MIT gives to the parent organisations, makes me able to support this. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u176	I am actually going on at the same point as my colleague Azarkan. I assume that, for the VVD too, the hard lessons of the premium affair are that we, as legislators, need to take a critical look at how the legal protection of individual citizens is guaranteed. There is now an incredibly clear and yet cutting-edge opinion from the Dutch Data Protection Authority. My question is: if that advice had been there before we as the Lower House had dealt with this law, would the VVD have voted differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u177	This then I cannot answer at all. I would now like to point out that I also take everything we have before us for the discussion of a legislative proposal and also use it in the definition of the position. I find the timing of the Personal Data Authority at least odd. I'll ask the Minister about that. I assume that the Minister will now also come to the First Chamber with a response. I also have close contact with colleagues from my own group in the Upper House. The First Chamber will then, of course, look further at how this law goes forward, also in view of the response I expect from the Minister to the criticism of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. So that is what we are now taking into account in a normal legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u178	This is a very procedural answer. For me, that is also an answer that really shows: if we take the premium affair seriously and what we have to learn from it, then we must really look at the legislation we are dealing with. We must also take a critical look at what it does with the legal status of citizens. I understand from Mrs Michon-Derkzen that she says: that advice was not there at the time. But I do expect a colleague to be able to reflect critically on the following points, now that she has read it. What does that mean for how we handled that law? Have we looked enough at the legal status of individual citizens? So if she takes that advice to heart, what does it do with the way she looks at that law now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u179	I don't think we're supposed to be talking very much about that law here. But even when that law was dealt with, the Dutch Data Protection Authority advised and spoke to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. So I just want to say that the Dutch Data Protection Authority was also involved in the bill as it was in the Lower House. Secondly, the bill is aimed at, for example, a situation in which a municipality, a mayor, struggles with an entire street where drug crime or undermining activities take place in every pawn. People are trying to deal with that. Now I'm just gonna keep going. You can see that the RIEC is too far away from what happens locally, by street. The mayor's got his hands in the hair and only the police. With this law in his hand, he can also work with a police, with a public prosecutor or with a customs officer for a specific area in a municipality to deal with this. That's absolutely necessary. By the way, this is happening now, but without a legal basis. So I am very much in favour of this law actually making this method much more transparent, which also makes it much clearer and, in that sense, provides more legal certainty. Mr. Chairman. Because of the investment in the entire criminal justice chain, and this joint and persistent approach, it can't be any different than that in the coming years we will be picking up more serious criminals and bringing them to justice. This will also affect the capacity of prisons. If the Minister also sees this, I ask the Minister for Legal Protection. And does he agree with the VVD that we should not, in principle, close prisons anymore? I saw the minister go on a job visit to Italy. Ms Yeşilgöz of the VVD and Mr Ellian preceded him. What did he see there and what did he take back to apply here? As far as the VVD is concerned, the starting point for serious criminals with leadership positions in a criminal organisation should be the ebi regime. For them, contact with the outside world must be kept to a strictly necessary minimum. This is necessary to ensure that criminal activities by these serious criminals can no longer continue from prison. We see that can happen. We want prisoners in the worst regime no longer to be transported on and off to courts for participation in their criminal proceedings, but simply to be able to do so via video connection. Saves a lot of hassle and expense, and is a lot safer. The Minister for Legal Protection also seems to endorse this. That's very nice, but how does this go on? I'd like to ask him. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the issue of terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u180	Before you continue, Mr Markuszower of the PVV wishes to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u181	Mrs Michon of the VVD congratulates the Minister immediately. She says the minister also seems to endorse a strict prison regime. But how does the VVD reflect on the past ten years, in which successive VVD ministers have closed prisons in which I also said that in my contribution it is the constant feast, where drugs are smuggled in, where sex parties are held, where I think someone had to be shot yesterday because the one with a knife attacked a guard, and where a lot of incidents occur? That's not a strict prison regime, is it, Mrs. Michon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u182	In my contribution, it was really about the prison regime in an ebi, an extra-security facility. That is a special regime, compared to the ordinary prison regime. I agree with Mr Markuszower that punishment must be punishment. It can't be like it's a party in prison. Now I have a slightly different picture to that of Mr Markuszower, because he pretends to be one big, colourful party, and I do not agree with him. But in my contribution, I have addressed the Ebi regime. That's where the worst criminals are. As far as I am concerned, that must also be a very sober regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u183	But how are we supposed to shape the prison regime outside the Ebi according to Mrs Michon? As PVV, for example, we always propose to lower the heating. Make it 15 degrees. Well, if they've skipped well, maybe with those fat balls on their feet, it might get one degree warmer as a reward. Why don't we make the prison regime much stricter? Do you argue for that, or do you do your story for the stage? The PVV argues for a very strict prison regime: if you are stuck, then you really have a problem. Or does Mrs. Michon say, no, we're just gonna continue that party in those prisons?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u184	Mr Markuszower always makes almost everything he says a complete caricature, and also pretends that these prisons are one big party here. I really don't agree with that. There are ongoing debates here about the entire prison regime. We'll talk about how to shape that. It may not always be the way Mr Markuszower wants it to be, with his degree lower, but we have agreed to that here. We also do this within rules that are for that in Europe. I'd like to stick to that like a country. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a single point on terrorism. Our security is also threatened by terrorists who want to overthrow our free society and who have travelled to join an organisation that exists only for that purpose. Recently, the Minister informed us about five IS terrorists who may be repatriated to the Netherlands. I can't get over my sense of injustice. A terrorist suspect who rejects everything that we as a Dutch democratic constitutional state are calling for a fair trial of the same rule of law. And what do we do? We're gonna pick them up so she can start a new chapter of her life here after a few years of prison. Of course, I have to accept the judge's ruling: suspects have the right to attend their trial. But I still don't need it physically. That is why, together with Mr Van der Staaij, I asked the Minister to examine whether the session could not be attended via video. The cabinet gives a hugely long and to be honest quite defensive reaction in which more is explained what cannot be done than is investigated what can be done. I have asked written questions and I shall continue to do so in the committee debate that is taking place in mid-December. But for now, I have one pressing point, in view of those potential returners. A legislative amendment to the Long-Term Monitoring Act was announced in June 2020. Where the hell is he? It is necessary to make it clear that this law applies to suspects of terrorist offences, so that we can continue to follow these terrorists as closely as possible after detention. Mr President, I will conclude. I would prefer to stand here all day to discuss with you dozens of subjects that affect our country's security, but unfortunately that is not possible in time. You can assume that my colleagues and I will not pass up an opportunity in the coming period to come up with proposals to make our country a little safer step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u185	Thank you very much. There is another interruption by Mrs Koekkoek, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u186	I thought I'd wait for the speech. In the speech of the VVD, I note that safety and safety aspects are rightly mentioned and less monitoring. This applies both to the Dutch Data Protection Authority and to the TIB, the CTIVD and the Long-Term Supervision Act. I am very curious to see how the VVD sees this and what consideration it takes and, above all, whether the VVD thinks that this is sufficiently balanced in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u187	Yeah, I think there's an adequate balance in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u188	This is, of course, a bit the trend of previous questions that have been asked. If we are challenged in the rule of law, for example by terrorists or by people who have joined IS, it is important that we also protect procedural rights there. That actually comes back very little in the budget. The AP also gets little extra budget to better monitor. The same story applies to the CTIVD and the TIB. That is why I would like to hear from the VVD that we attach as much importance to this as to that importance of protecting safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u189	But you don't hear me at all saying that I'm less interested in that. I think it's a strange proposition, too. The Dutch Data Protection Authority will receive 6 million from next year on. She also needs that to get through that growth. So there's no discussion about that at all. So I think that balance is there. You put words in my mouth, too. I'm not talking about it, but I don't want to say that I don't think it's important. In my view, the budget has done a really good job, which is why we have this balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u190	Then we may indeed disagree on that, but I think it is good to know that the VVD has also looked into this and will continue to do so with all legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u191	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u192	Then I'd like to thank you for your contribution. I give the floor to Mr Valstar of the VVD. This is his maiden speech. I understand that Mr Valstar does not find it difficult to be interrupted, but I would like to ask Members to honour this tradition. It is also the only time in your career in the House of Representatives that you will not be interrupted. So a call on colleagues to honour this tradition. I'd say don't interrupt. Anyway, then, don't get too excited. I call Mr Valstar of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u193	I think I'm going to do Mr Markuszower a little favor. Mr. Chairman. This is my maiden speech. Traditionally, it does not interfere, but because of the budget and the subject matter I am prepared to let go of this privilege. I hope you will allow me to finish my introduction at least. It is perhaps appropriate that you should be allowed to interrupt when the word "dictor" has been dropped. Mr. Chairman. Last weekend, as a true amateur-genealogist, I didn't confuse myself with amateur-gynaecologist in my pedigree, to see if as spokesperson I have roots outside the Dutch borders. That opportunity is considerable, you would say, because 98% of Dutch people have foreign ancestors. It took me a while to get out of the Westlands border, but ten generations ago I finally found someone. Mr. Chairman. Hold on. He was an ancestor from Germany. Unfortunately, it doesn't get any more exotic than that. My German ancestor's name was Barend Leibeck. He was born more than 250 years ago in a small farmhouse in the Lower Saxony hamlet of Lechtrup, just north of Osnabrück. It was a small farm, a "cunt business" as it is called. These types of farms usually did not produce enough to support the family. It meant that Barend, once at an adult age, was asked by father Johan to take up his duties and look for work in the Netherlands. That's how he ended up in the Westland around 1780. He started working there as a farm worker. He found love there and married Grietje Meijers, also a descendant of German migrants. They had six children, most of whom unfortunately died at an early age. It wasn't exactly a luxury life. Barend had to tie the strings to support his family. He was even arrested for stealing wood from the collapsed's-Gravensand church. He got stuck for that and had to pay for the bread and water himself. His wife Grietje also died at a young age, leaving Barend alone. Barend was one of the many Germans who migrated to the Netherlands. Although the Netherlands was in the late days of the Golden Age and the growth of the economy further weakened, young, unmarried Germans continued to come to the Netherlands. Already from the seventeenth century with tens of thousands a year, pure and simple to gain work experience in the crafts, in the countryside or in shipping. Because the Netherlands was still one of the most prosperous countries in Europe. Many came up with the idea of eventually returning to the country where they grew up, but Barend stayed, and many with him. They fell in love, they had children, or they just couldn't come back. Barend's story isn't on its own. A few years ago, Klaudia left Polish Oleśnica to work in the Westlands greenhouses. She went to work at plant nursery Klugt in De Lier. She too fell in love, in this case with a friend of mine: Marco. They had a baby together last year and now build together a beautiful future and their own life story in's-Gravensande. With almost 60%, labour migration is still the largest form of emigration to our country. 12% comes under the heading of "asylum," while if you rely on the heated debates here in the House of Representatives and the media, sometimes you think it's the other way around. However, the concerns about asylum and migration are, as far as I am concerned, unabated and justified, because, unlike migrant workers, it appears that it is still difficult for a significant group of asylum seekers to get to work and integrate. Let us not forget the risks these people are taking to get here: dangerous trips across the Mediterranean or being flown in by a dictator, who then pushes you across the European border. And that is when in many cases they have already been in safe countries. Mr. Chairman. Therefore, reception in the region is and remains the ideal of the VVD. Well, the ideal... it's just absolute necessity. Migrants do not have to come to Europe via these life-threatening smuggling routes. If they do, as far as we are concerned, however hard that may sound to some people, they will be sent back to reception camps in the region. One example of this is the deal between Turkey and Turkey five years ago. It was agreed that Syrians who risked the crossing would be sent back to Turkey to be taken care of there. The same number would then be legally transferred to Europe. It eventually stopped the crossing being risked, because it was noticed that this dangerous crossing meant a direct return to Turkey. As a result, the number of attempts dried up and an estimated 1 million people stopped risking crossing. Over the past period, efforts have been made to conclude more migration agreements of this kind, but unfortunately they hardly came off the ground. The same Turkey deal seems to have been renewed by now, so Erdogan does not use migration as a means of pressure anymore. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether it is true that the Turkey deal has been renewed and under what conditions. And what about the post-Cotonou treaty? Does the Secretary of State see the same points of reference in this Treaty in order to reach agreements with countries to take back nationals? Mr. Chairman. For the most part, asylum policy in the Netherlands has been reflected in European laws and regulations. It is clear that these are in need of renewal. Unfortunately, even after the presentation of the Commission's latest proposal last September, the negotiations are not free. What does the cabinet expect from these negotiations? Or has it put its hopes on the French Presidency to make it work? And when there is little to expect from the EU as a whole and the pressure is still increasing, it is important to be able to take crisis measures on its own. But as far as we are concerned, this does not happen by closing national borders, because it is clear that the Netherlands cannot do without the free movement of persons and goods within European borders. To return to my own region, the horticultural sector exports almost EUR 25 billion on an annual basis and in the Westland alone some 15,000 migrant workers work. It is then important to look at a crisis mechanism in which you can close the border with a number of like-minded countries. What about last year's Becker motion? Which countries has spoken to the government in order to establish such a crisis mechanism, such as a mini-Schengen? Until then, we must take short-term measures, such as financing fences around the European external borders. The Secretary of State recently indicated in Question Time that the cabinet did not join the twelve Member States which did make such an appeal. It didn't do that because the letter contained some aspects that the Netherlands couldn't identify with. Last week, the Minister for Foreign Affairs indicated that aid has been given to Poland, but that it has not yet been complied with. What's the latest? What kind of help is needed? After seeing the images of what is happening at the external border of the EU, does the cabinet agree with the VVD that we should work together in this and that we should therefore also jointly finance this? Once again, I find it incomprehensible that the Netherlands has not supported this call, bearing in mind the images of events on the border between Poland and Belarus. How many asylum seekers have come to the Netherlands on the Belarusian route? How many of them have been returned to Lithuania, Poland or Germany, for example, in accordance with the Dublin agreements? I understood from last week's technical briefing that the routes that migrants travel are not registered. The IND does ask for this in the hearing, but it is not kept up to date in order to establish links, to share the information with the international partners, to close the migration routes and, for example, to detect smugglers. Speaking of smugglers, what about the tightening up of penalties for smugglers? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. We can all sense that in the coming year it will be exciting for the COA to say the least. At present 12,000 status holders are trapped in azc's. And early next year, a lot of emergency shelters are gonna close down. The same applies to the azc's which have entered into a contract and have only been renewed for a short time. What is the Secretary of State's expectation for the coming year? Has having to make appointments again and again and go through the municipalities with the hat in hand to ask them to open emergency shelters still a future-proof way? What are the possibilities for the Secretary of State to agree with municipalities on a rapid scalable asylum reception, with municipalities willing to do so also receiving funding for this standby capacity? In the current financing system, the cabinet uses the so-called multi-annual production forecast, but time and time again misprognosis is made. That was the reason again this year that the Spring note returned 200 million to BuHa-OS, while you could count on ten fingers that the flow would start again after the travel restrictions were lifted. What happened to the 200 million, I ask the Secretary of State. And are they still being retrieved? The same multiannual production forecast also reduces the funding of the COA and the IND by 30% and 20% respectively. In view of the current influx and with the next year in sight, I ask the Secretary of State how the forecasts are made and whether the Secretary of State himself thinks it is a good instrument. Mr. Chairman. I told you, I'm afraid this Ter Apel will be about shoes again at the beginning of next year. In fact, we saw that again last night. Has the Secretary of State prepared to prevent another scenario from occurring next year? Are there any plans to switch to other locations? Another secondary problem for Ter Apel is the reception of safelanders, a small group that causes the biggest problems. The resources from the toolbox seem to have been used and exhausted by now. What else does the Secretary of State have in store for this city? If she wants to take additional security measures that cost money, can she also count on the Secretary of State? In addition, the sober shelter for this group in Ter Apel and Budel seems to end this year. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if that's true. And if so, how will this be completed as of next year? The same applies to shuttle buses that run between Emmen and Ter Apel. This too seems to be the end of funding from next year. I would also like a comment on this: is this shuttle service being extended or is it also in the past? Mr. Chairman. To finish the story and finish the return. The asylum seekers who can finally be deported have found something new: the refusal of corona tests. That's incredibly frustrating. I have no doubt that the Return Service will do everything in its power to turn these people off. Can the Secretary of State state state whether it has been able to do so again recently and, if not, whether these people can be quarantined? Which countries are involved in this and which countries are frustrating in this respect? One final point, Mr President. Recently, the Court of Justice ruled in an Austrian case that Member States may refuse to deal with a subsequent application for asylum in substance only if an explicit legal basis is provided for that purpose. This is not yet the case in the Netherlands. This refusal is an important means of ensuring that repeated frustrating applications can be completed quickly and that returns are made. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State about the situation, and if this is the case, whether it is also prepared to create this basis in the Netherlands. Mr President, I am really closing up now. I began my speech with a small search in the past, and I end with a message for the future, because perhaps in a few decades or centuries there will be a distant descendant enough to look at these Acts of this debate. I hope that those, like us, still live in prosperity, in freedom and, not least, in democracy. That they see how the majority of the parties, despite their differences, have done everything they can to maintain those values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u194	Thank you, Mr. Valstar, for the lovely maiden speech, very powerful. I think we got to know you a little better from the story. And good luck in this House of Representatives. I will suspend the sitting for a single moment so that you can receive the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u195	I would ask Members to take their place again. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u196	We have a major problem with organised crime in our country. There's gun clatter in our cities. There are liquidations in broad daylight. The rule of law is staggering, but will not fall over, thanks to all the hard workers on the front line: police officers, lawyers, prosecutors and judges. In difficult circumstances, they maintain our rule of law. That deserves great respect, all the more so when you look at last weekend's riots. Those were unacceptable violent explosions. Don't touch our paramedics. What does the Minister think is going on here? Where did this come from? What are the sociological explanations for this? It is right to firmly reject this behavior, but that is an open door. Can the Minister live up to the promise that these rioters are actually going to get caught? At the expense of what other investigations is this going to do? We know that there are piles of cases with the police, the prosecution and the judiciary. In recent weeks, extra money has only been released for the coming years. It's far too little and far too late. Why didn't you tell me before? Why did the problems have to get so big first? How could this happen? Will it finally be enough? Where are we gonna go? What does the world look like if we continue with this policy? How safe is our society then? Then how are our cops doing? So what does our rule of law look like? How else could this be done in important areas? Let's start with the money, because almost all crime is about money. At present, around 300 million euros are collected annually from criminals of the estimated 16 billion euros that are laundered annually in the Netherlands. Out of 52 weeks a year, only one week of criminal money is taken. So the other 51 weeks a year just go to the criminals. Crime still pays off. Why is there still so little crime money being taken? Why don't you follow the money flows? The SP proposes: more financial detectives, better cooperation between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the FIOD and tackling figures in the upper world that have become intertwined with the underworld. Never before have the banks reported as many suspicious transactions as last year. The banks have then invested in more people, but not the government. That's why almost all these reports aren't being done at all. Criminals laugh at a government like ours, don't they? In addition, we must make a strong commitment to prevention in order to prevent today's street thugs from growing into the hardened criminals of the future. It's stupid policy not to do that now or hardly. Where are the youth workers? Where is stable financing of Halt and other effective programmes? Where is the problem of supporting families? I also mention, of course, repression. "Punishment for those who deserve punishment," remember? Now a lot of criminals are free to go. The odds of getting caught are way too low. There is too little capacity on all fronts. Victims are in the cold because of that. That's got to be different, right? Make sure there are enough people in the police and the D.A. to catch bad guys, detectives on crime gangs, detectives, digital work, and be present in the neighborhoods. Because the latter just can't or hardly can anymore. That's a shame. Cops are the eyes and ears of the neighborhood anyway. Knowing and becoming known was always the power of Dutch police. We're in danger of losing them. Cops are hardly getting around it, because they're being used for emergency services or because they're busy with people with mental problems, because care is not in order. The neighborhood is really the base. A trend break is needed with the policies of VVD and CDA in recent years. The SP is in favour of organising much more justice and security from the neighborhoods. Pretty literally, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u197	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Michon-Derkzen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u198	So far, I thought Mr. Van Nispen's story sounded like a clock. I thought: there are many elements in it that I have just heard myself pronounce.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u199	Until that trend break, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u200	Until that trend break, yeah. Mr Van Nispen said: we must now go to district agents in the neighborhood. We've had these neighborhood agents for years. You have also heard me say that they are under pressure. So what's the trend break? Because the neighborhood agents are there just courtesy of the VVD. There are 700 more with the implementation of the Hermans motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u201	Then the spokesperson of the VVD should put her ear to all those neighborhood agents who can no longer be in the neighborhoods. They may be there on paper, but they're no longer in the neighborhoods. Try reaching out to your neighborhood cop and asking how much time he's really in the neighborhood. You're gonna be scared. I think Mrs. Michon knows that. This is about a paper reality. Mrs Michon is particularly proud of the fact that extra money has been made available for security in the General Political Reviews. Well, that's nothing compared to those cuts from the past. The police are far from strong. The VVD has been waiting for you to put things in order and has ensured through years of policy that these district agents cannot be present in the district. And now you're proud that it might be on paper? Go check out the practice, talk to those cops and acknowledge that much more is needed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u202	It seems to me that I am helping Mr Van Nispen, but what he is not saying here, and I know him as someone who has the facts in order, is that the impulse given in August and which has now been given to the APB is higher than what has been cut down on the police at all. Then the point of the krappe to neighborhood agents. Does Mr Van Nispen recognise that the work of the district agent is becoming more and more digital? I agree with him that the district cop should be available for the neighborhood. I also acknowledge that this is under pressure. But does Mr Van Nispen agree with me that this district agent should also be visible online? You can see that in last weekend's riots, too, that you have to see what's going on in that neighborhood. It may be that you're not on the street, but you're still working for that neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u203	I think it's important that the police are also digitally present. I think that's what they're increasingly trying to do. So what Mrs. Michon says here is nothing new. Of course, that's what neighborhood agents are trying to do. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance that this district agent also knows the area. If you go on a job visit, which I'm sure Mrs Michon has done plenty of times, then the district policeman can unfailingly indicate where the problems are, which makes him aware of it all and can also intervene more precisely, which works preventively. So that neighborhood cop isn't just here to punish people. Digital search can be carried out within the limits of the law. Of course, that doesn't apply to what we saw at the NCTV; that went outside the law again and that was all wrong. That neighborhood cop should be able to be in the neighborhood. It's easy for you to say that I'm not saying anything new with this. No, I really want them back in the neighborhoods and I want the police stations back in the neighborhoods. And it has really been VVD policy that has failed in recent years. And you do not brush that away with an extra investment, with a motion Hermans or with the extra resources that have really been released in this cabinet's injury period because it really couldn't be any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u204	Thank you. Mrs. Michon-Derkzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u205	We have agreed with each other the norm that there should be a district cop on 5,000 people and that that district cop should be on the street 80% of the time. I agree with Mr Van Nispen that this is under pressure. This is not the case throughout the Netherlands, but it is under pressure here and there. Does Mr Van Nispen agree with me that we should maintain this standard, or does he think that we should do something about it, for example two district agents per 5,000 inhabitants, and what is he prepared to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u206	Thank you for this question. At the moment, I believe that an amendment is being tabled by the SP for an additional EUR 500 million for next year for the police. I also mention the 100 million for additional financial detectives. That amendment has already been tabled. But let's not outbid each other. I would love nothing more than more district agents, but it's not just about paper. We have in law that standard of a neighborhood cop at 5,000. But do you know what the practice is now? There are areas where that standard has shifted from a district agent to 7,000. I think that's breaking the law. That's what I'm figuring out right now. So that's the practice. That paper standard, which I believe we have got into law thanks to an amendment by the SGP in the formation of the national police, is of course important, but I would prefer more agents per 5,000. However, it is already shifting in practice, because that standard is simply not being complied with and that is because of the years of balding and, in fact, the lack of security policy of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u207	I'd like to ask you to answer a little bit shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u208	I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u209	My final comment on this point. I am going to look closely at Mr Van Nispen's amendment from the SP. Often the criticism is precisely on the cover. So I'm very pleased that you say you have 500 million for extra agents. I am very curious to know where you will get coverage, because that is what the SP's proposals often fail to do. But I'm gonna take a close look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u210	Then you must indeed look carefully at it. The amendment on financial detectives has already been tabled. This also includes precise coverage, as with the amendment we tabled on the Personal Data Authority, which is also a neatly covered amendment. We're taking that 500 million away from the profits tax for bigger companies. That is indeed a political choice we are making. If you say 'I do not agree with that, but I have a much better idea for cover', we recommend it. That's how we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u211	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u212	So the neighborhood cop has to be back in the neighborhood. But also police stations need to get closer to the people. What a blunder to shut down so many desks over the years. In the East of the Netherlands, 92 locations have been closed since 2013. And then the minister says, "Yes, but there are police posts coming back for it," right? Well, we went to one of those police stations once, in Ochten. Yes, it is! A fire station. You should call the neighborhood cop for an appointment, because that location has never been opened. What number are you gonna call? Yes, the 0900 payment number. Especially outside the Randstad, the police are unreachable. In Zeeland, for example, 74% of police buildings have disappeared since the 1980s. This is what neo-liberal policy does to our country: mainly reminiscent of scaling up, efficiency and a smaller government, but what really matters to people, namely close to security, is really neglected. The capacity shortages in the police force can only be resolved if adequate attention is paid to police education and the new police force. That's what I'm really worried about. The unions also ring the bell. The screening of new students is becoming less and less thorough, we hear. No more home visits, but digital. Calls have been replaced by questionnaires. Then where is the human contact? The capacity problem is urgent, but that is no reason to compromise quality and integrity. By reducing the training, students, who are still young and have had a year of theory, receive 80% digital and self-directing education and then a lot of responsibilities. Students will therefore no longer have time to watch with their colleagues and learn the profession in practice, with all the consequences: more PTSD cases in the future, more people who fail, more incidents in society, increasing distrust of society against the police. A third of the basic teams will be made up of the people who are now being trained in about five years' time. Is that gonna be okay? What's the state of our police in five to ten years? Firefighters must also be in your neighborhood, but there are also cuts, scaling ups and firehouses that have disappeared. There is a great deal of anger and concern about that. This is evident from the SP's investigation; I will offer it to the Minister later. It is about the task differentiation, the 20-year clamp, the compulsory cessation of work when people are 40, for example, and the cuts, which are a threat to security. There is no confidence in the leadership and in politics. We here, we don't know what's going on in the workplace. That's actually true, because the minister doesn't even have an idea of how many firefighters there are in our country. How is this possible? Does the security region actually function? Can the Minister respond to all these concerns? Right has also been removed from people. If you've got a problem, you're gonna have to figure it out first. Self-reliance. If you have to go to court, same story, because it's also disappeared from the neighborhoods. The number of canton locations has been halved over the last 20 years. The right is too far away for many people, not close, and it is also too complicated and too expensive. The SP therefore comes up with its own detailed plan, the initiative paper Huizen van het Recht. This is an easy-to-access facility in the neighbourhood where you can do your story, where you will be listened to and where you will get help with a solution. This may be in the area of debt or multi-problems, but it may also be legal. There must also be justice by the district court. There are already a lot of experiments; there is already a lot to learn from. I believe that we need to really organise this now, in the interests of the people with problems, in the interests of our rule of law. I'd like an initial response from the Minister. I look forward to the debate on this with the Chamber. Another question about access to justice, the foundation of our rule of law. After years of struggle, there is finally an extra budget for social law. The minister stopped it for years and did not get down on his knees until the Chamber forced him. But how is it possible that this budget is not structural? Isn't it a government task to ensure access to justice for everyone, rich or poor? What exactly did we learn from the surcharge scandal? Speaking of which, the Council of State also failed in legal protection. But the discussion on the structure of the Council of State has been going on for years. Today's proposal is to split the Council of State. I am making this proposal on behalf of Mr Omtzigt. Remove the judicial task and place it with the judiciary, for example in an administrative court. Please respond to this proposal. Justice has been underfunded by the Minister for many years. This affects the quality and independence of our third state power. All the courts are in the red numbers. What's this supposed to mean? Are they being squandered, can they not be buried, or perhaps the Minister would have been too cheap in the price negotiations? And how exactly are the additional resources distributed? Is that enough for justice, for example? Interpreting and translators play an extremely important role in our rule of law, but quality is at stake. They are left to the whims of the market and they are heavily underpaid, with rates from 1981 and 1963. It's a hell of a scandal. The SP is competing with these people. We want indexed rates to 2021, very reasonable, and a standard rule for translators. There is nothing less we can do. That is why we have tabled an amendment. I also have a question about the NCTV. There's a lot of discussion about that. There will be a separate debate, but if wrongdoing is brought out by whistleblowers, for example, that NCTV does not comply with the law, or advises municipalities to conduct secret investigation into mosques, why on earth is there a complaint against that whistleblower? Report yourself or the NCTV, but for once protect those whistleblowers, the people who bring out wrongdoing. I'd like a reaction to that. Then I'll come to adoption. The investigation into domestic adoption failed. That is sad for all those who are disadvantaged and those who are affected. For now, I would just like to make this proposal, that the government no longer invokes limitation periods. That is not possible, given the responsibility of the government in the past. In the case of cross-border adoption, too, we have now arranged this. I would intend, if the Minister does not agree to do so, to table a motion together with the SGP to correct this. The Dutch who are victims of international child abduction too often feel that the government is not doing anything for them. And that's often the case. Other countries that break the rules are not even addressed, while those rules are there for the sake of the child. Is the Minister gonna do more about this? And is the Minister prepared to set up a fund for victims of this, so that they are also financially supported? Because now the remaining parent is also financially ruined. What is the Minister going to do to strengthen the position of victims of this? The Dutch Data Protection Authority should, of course, have sufficient budget, because now it is a watchdog without teeth. It cannot even carry out the current tasks properly, let alone do more, which we would like to do. This is also counterpower, minister, taking people seriously and giving them a position. And the Chamber, because there's an approved motion. Three independent investigations show that the Dutch Data Protection Authority needs significantly more budget. With an amendment, Mr Leijten and I are making a first step for next year. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to offer the presentation of the day, via the messenger, for example, if I could. To the Minister for Legal Protection the own-initiative paper on Houses of Law. The Minister for Justice and Security will speak to the De Fireweer survey. And then, of course, I'm a little empty-handed in front of the Secretary of State, but I think I'm gonna make it up to you because after this, Jasper's gonna talk to Dijk. I'm sure he has all kinds of nice questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u213	All right. Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, including the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u214	Mr. Chairman. I can't stand that. Well, let me put it this way, at the end of my speech I have something in store for the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. There's something crazy going on. Asylum policy is a mess, whereas it is basically quite simple. People who are entitled to asylum allow you and people who are not entitled to asylum do not allow you. This must be the starting point for a sound asylum policy. In practice, we see a crisis. Thousands of places the Secretary of State is short, at present 600 and for next year 42,000 places are needed, so I have read in the documents. For refugees, but also for people who helped us in Afghanistan, for example. They are currently in the emergency shelter of Heumensoord in Nijmegen. I've been there, and that's not pretty. People say: we can sit here until December but after that it must be really slussy, then we just want to go into the country to stay here. We have helped the Dutch in Afghanistan, we now have a right to a status and it would be nice if we could just settle into the Netherlands. But there are no houses, so it's most likely they'll stay in Heumensoord for months, and you don't want to sit there for months. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? And can she tell you how she's gonna fix that? It also has to do with funding, and I read in the budget that as much as 128 million is being cut off from the COA, while there is a huge shortage of places. How is that possible? Mr Valstar himself mentioned a fine amount of 200 million, if I have understood him correctly. Why didn't that money just stay at asylum? I think that is a very fair question. I would like to invite him to look with me to see if we can help the Secretary of State with sufficient funding so that we do not have overcrowded asylum centres again, where there are many more people than there is capacity. Does he share that opinion? I would have asked him that, but he couldn't do that during his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u215	Thank you. Mr Markuszower of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u216	It's gonna answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u217	I hear the SP, the SP, which has its own supporters living in all those neighborhoods where they are dealing daily with the nuisance of mass immigration and asylum influx, which I hear SP pleading for more money to the COA. But the Netherlands is already spending EUR 20 billion on immigration, including a very substantial part, especially this year, of asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u218	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u219	How much more does the Netherlands have to pay for asylum? Why don't you argue that money goes to the people in those neighbourhoods, just to the Dutch, including the people who vote for the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u220	Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u221	Well, Van Dijk. And by first name, huh, because there are three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u222	Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u223	Check. Mr President, I would like to explain the difference between the PVV and the SP, because the PVV is really a heartless party, which is also choking the people who helped us in Afghanistan, because that is what I was talking about. I was talking about the people who are now in Heumensoord. Those aren't asylum seekers, they're former employees, they're security guards, cooks, interpreters. And the PVV says, "Let them die, they can get away, we have nothing to do with that." That's heartless, unscrupulous and really very wrong, Mr. Markuszower. The SP says: we are in favour of a fair asylum policy. People who are entitled to asylum, we take care of them. People who are not entitled to asylum, they will have to return. I had just arrived at that part, so you might find it interesting what I am going to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u224	I'm sure it'll be interesting to hear. The difference, in my opinion, is that the PVV chooses the Dutchman. There's the difference between the SP and the PVV. People who helped us in Afghanistan, of course they need to be taken in...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u225	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u226	... but in the region, not here in the Netherlands. In the region. That's also human. Then, when it's safe there, they'll be able to get back home soon. They must be taken care of in the region. What is not humane is that the SP is now calling for even more money to the COAs, because that money you withdraw from the ordinary Dutchman, who already has enough trouble, including in the security sphere, of all those asylum seekers. Can you go into that? Can Mr Van Dijk comment on the fact that every day the voters of the SP also suffer from mass immigration and asylum influx?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u227	Mr Markuszower's speech is not only unscrupulous and heartless, it is also flimsy and rattles on all sides. He thinks it's weird that I'm suing those cuts to the COA, but those cuts are exactly what make that shelter in Ter Apel, in Westerwolde, overcrowded, which means that people who are not entitled to asylum are now wandering the streets and indeed making the neighborhoods unsafe. That is the other side of asylum policy, and I am very concerned about that, because if you live in that neighborhood, it is not nice. If you're a bus driver in that neighborhood, it's not nice. There are bus drivers who say: I don't ride that line anymore, because I'm getting beat up, I'm getting beaten up, or I'm getting intimidated. This is another aspect of asylum policy which needs much more work. The bus drivers are going to take action because they really aren't taking it anymore, I just heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u228	I was challenged to respond, so I hope this will not be at the expense of my interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u229	Yeah, come...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u230	Otherwise, Mr Van Dijk is in the process of stealing very strategic interruptions. No, no kidding. Those 200 million: it was also the question for the Secretary of State whether we can bring that back legally. I'm curious about the Secretary of State's answer to that. Unfortunately, that will not happen until tomorrow, but I think we are in the same position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u231	Look, maybe we can come to business. I interpret Mr Valstar's semi-interruption in such a way that he also sees that if asylum seekers are being cut too much at central reception, then we need to see how we can fix it. Very nice. Mr. Chairman. The failing return is a real weakness of asylum policy. The Netherlands does not succeed in sending people back who are not entitled to asylum. This is not possible because no agreements are made with the safe countries of origin: Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria. And it is not possible because these people remain here, which means that there will be a great deal of violence and aggression, as I said to Mr Markuszower. That is an extremely bad thing. I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State can respond to a column by Mr Martin Sommer of 12 November. He writes: "For both Morocco and Algeria there is no longer a view of expulsion. As a result, many dozens and several hundreds of safe-loving people came to the streets to harden the place. In addition, they received approximately €100 per day in compensation." This is really fatal for the support of the shelter. People who are entitled to asylum must be protected. People who are not entitled to do so must leave at some point. Otherwise, you can't explain it to people anymore. I'd like a response. Then about the children's pardon. Two years ago, a deal was made by the coalition, but it is not being properly implemented. That turned out yesterday at a petition offer that we had here outside the building because of the school class of Ljowa of 7 years old, who really has no right to stay in the Netherlands due to a very silly procedural error. I would urge the parties to support my motion to settle this for him and some other cases. It concerns a very small number of children who are long-term, but who are not subject to child pardon due to a procedural error. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make the same argument for Jezidis. That is, of course, a special group on which genocide was committed at the time of IS. I would argue in favour of creating a special programme for the victims of this genocide. It came by yesterday on the budget for development cooperation. I'd like to hear from this Secretary of State how she stands in there. Mr. Chairman. Clock's ticking. I would like to hear what this Secretary of State is doing against the misery at the external borders of Europe: Poland, Greece, Spain. You hear really poignant stories about pushbacks that no longer have anything to do with the right to asylum that Europe still has on paper. Finally, the coalition agreement. Something's already leaked. In the Volkskrant, we read that we are looking at the discretionary powers, which seems to me to be a good thing, and that we are also looking at a better arrangement for the children's pardon. But it also says that there must be regulation of labour migration from outside the EU. I find that very worrying, if you look at the major problems currently facing migrant workers in the Netherlands: shortage of housing, exploitation, wage dumping, etc. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State on her birthday. I understand she got so close to 65 yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u232	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Werf van D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u233	Mr. Chairman. I shall first make a brief procedural comment. I will speak here on security, my colleague Mr Sneller will speak on justice and Mrs Podt will also speak here on asylum and migration. Mr. Chairman. What really makes the Netherlands safer? I have often asked myself that question since I started here as a member of the House of Representatives. Over the last ten years, street robberies and home invasions have decreased by about 60%. Fewer and fewer young people are involved in crime and the incidents of violence also decreased by 40%. The feelings of insecurity also decreased. So you could say it's heading in the right direction. But that's only part of the story, because the figures also show that 70% of young women prefer not to go down the street alone when it's dark. The figures also show that a small proportion of young people are using more and more violence. Violence in a broad sense may have been taken away, but of course a ME agent who got a brick on his chest last weekend doesn't have a message. D66 wants to make the Netherlands safer. But not with symbolic measures, but with proven effective policies. Rather prevent than cure, because tomorrow's Taghis grow up in the neighborhood today. Mr. Chairman. It starts in the neighborhood. The district cop has been the face of the police for years. The agent is the point of contact for young and old, for resident and for entrepreneur, by talking to them and acting immediately where necessary. Unfortunately, a lot of cops aren't getting enough on both jobs. They have to cope with the shortages in the organisation. They need to jump in on emergency services and show up at demonstrations. These problems aren't new, but they play in the police all over the place. I am glad that there is considerable investment in additional capacity in this budget, but I also know that this will not reduce the workload for agents in the short term. So I've been asking a lot of cops over the last few months: what can we do to relieve your workload in the short term? A common answer was actually very simple: more support. Agents are now spending too much time recording notifications, perusing and handling call requests, and all the administrative tasks that come with them. These tasks may also be performed by intake and service staff, or may be included by police volunteers. These are employees who can be trained in a short time and therefore also in the short term who can provide lighting. I would therefore like to hear from Minister Grapperhaus how the use of this extra, so-called non-operational staff is included in the spending of the money from the Hermans motion. Mr. Chairman. The last few years...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u234	Before you go any further, I think Mr Van Nispen has a question. He's walking farther than the first microphone, but that's okay, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u235	I was just looking for some time to think about it, Mr. Chairman, so that's why. I understand that proposal. I can see where it's coming from. I have the impression that this has already been tried in the past, so it is not new in that respect. But I'm very curious to see if it's possible, if that way the police tasks can be lightened. But is Mrs Van der Werf also aware of the problems at the Police Academy at the moment? Of course, you can look at administrative tasks. But you'll hear a cry from the unions when it comes to the police academy, which means our future agents. There is a lack of clear rules to screen for integrity. There is mainly digital self-directing education, the And in practice, police officers are given far too many responsibilities too quickly. Does Mrs. Van der Werf know about these problems? And is she prepared to support us in encouraging the Minister to take action in this respect? The Minister does not recognize the problems so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u236	I'm sure I recognize those problems. I've also spoken to a number of people who went through the police academy. I also talked to parents whose kid wasn't admitted for any reason and where there were all kinds of crazy things playing. So this doesn't sound weird to me. However, I always find it a little difficult for the SP's questions to end with the very general question: do you then support our motion, our amendment or our proposal? Yes, of course I must judge them on their merits. That is a pity for Mr Van Nispen, but I can see from his face that he understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u237	Mr President, I too have some problems with my voice, as do Mrs Helder. I hope we're gonna be okay this afternoon. I think this is a clear statement by Mrs van der Werf about the police capacity, which is also about us trying to clear up that operational commitment as much as possible. I understand you're looking for a way to support the other tasks. But I think we have just received a letter about this, and since 2018 this has been implemented through the buma fees. So now you're in favour of extra exploration of how we're going to do more with that inside those bum moneys?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u238	That is a good question, because there was indeed a letter to the Chamber on this last Friday. And there's also an amount reserved from those buma fees to do this. I would also like to see what money will be released through the Hermans motion. Because 200 million for new agents is, of course, an incredible blow with money, but we also know that these cops aren't on the street next month or next year. They simply haven't received the training yet. And these people will not cost exactly that amount at this time either. I propose: let's see what happens occasionally there, and how we can best fill in that in order to reduce the workload in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u239	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u240	In recent years, we have seen a worrying trend. Young people are becoming more and more involved in increasingly serious crime. If we are to prevent these young people from becoming major drug criminals, we need to get there early. Earlier, I asked for attention to the program. Only you decide who you are. This is a proven effective programme, whereby the participants are sentenced to three times less for a crime. These are programmes that make the Netherlands safer in the long term too. I would like to hear from the cabinet what opportunities it sees for using these proven effective prevention projects in terms of undermining resources. That is not just about young people, but perhaps also about the seventh and eighth grade of primary school. There are a number of examples of this. I hope the cabinet wants to explore it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u241	Thank you. You have an interruption from Mrs. Kuik, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u242	I wonder whether Mrs Van der Werf will also see that through drug standardisation the morale moves forward, which lowers the threshold for young people to participate in this crime. Because if use is normal, then delivery will also be normal. Does Mrs Van der Werf see that as a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u243	Yesterday I listened with surprise to the proposal made by Mrs Kuik. My colleague, Mr Sneller, was wondering if the drug criminals had knocked on the door at the CDA to put this plan into effect. I also see that the problem is that young people are tempted for a lot of money. But what are you supposed to do? Make them resilient and make sure that the big money doesn't hang like a sausage for them, as is the case at the moment. You don't really want to tackle the problem at the source, as I understand. We must also ensure that young people are not so easily tempted by these great criminals, that they are resilient and that they no longer see any good at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u244	A bit of a pity, though, because it is a good thing to have a substantive debate on how we are going to get the rule of law back a little bit. The CDA has indeed presented a whole vision with more than twenty proposals. Part of this is that we want to prevent these young people from ending up in criminal networks; it is part of a whole package. Experts indicate that moving up this standard is increasing the standardisation of drugs and is also doing something with young people and with the step to get into that crime. Can Mrs Van der Werf also comment on that point that makes experts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u245	The point I've heard experts make in recent years is that criminalizing a user won't solve anything. In my view, we must make the big money much less attractive and make it much less easy for large criminals to work in this way. Let us also be honest: the CDA has been in a number of cabinets. This problem has grown. I have heard you say this for about five years, and I do not think that the problems have been reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u246	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u247	Mr. Chairman. I was working on the issue of women's safety. I repeat that 70% of young women prefer not to go down the street alone when it is dark. They control their keyrings, take another route home or pretend to be on the phone. Today, all online hatred is added to that. This is a problem that I've drawn attention to before. That is why I would like to ask the Cabinet. What about the execution of my motion on countering unconscious discouragement to report to the vice squad? That motion was passed a while ago. I can't wait to see what's going on with that. On my motion on first aid in the case of sexual violence, Minister Dekker said: we can say something about this after next summer. That's taking too long, as far as I'm concerned. Since this motion has been adopted in Chambers, I would ask you, for example, to talk to the Centre on Sexual Violence and to look at the concrete vision they have developed on how such a national emergency aid could look. I believe that victims deserve action now and that we should not wait a year. Mr. Chairman. Then terrorism. Those who look at the texts and threats that are regularly expressed on social media can only see that it is becoming increasingly thinner online. That's just the tip of the iceberg. In closed chat groups hundreds of Dutch youngsters radicalize and talk about race wars and reaching a white ethno state. The terrorist threat of the NCTV is clear about it: besides jihadism, an attack, as it is called, can now be imagined from the far right. Fortunately, we have already acquired a great deal of knowledge in the fight against this jihadist threat and there is a structure of municipalities, police and parole. The extreme right doesn't. These are loners who are anonymously manifesting online. We can literally see them less clearly. Therefore, D66 wonders whether municipalities facing extreme right-wing young people can find the necessary support. I would like to hear from Minister Grapperhaus what he is doing to proactively support these municipalities in shaping terrorism policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u248	An interruption by Mrs Michon-Derkzen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u249	I even hear Mrs Van der Werf praise the good work the NCTV is doing in tackling jihadism and I hear her say that there is now a challenge in tackling right-wing extremism. I agree with her. Then why did Mrs Van der Werf and her group vote against the motion which calls for a rapid legislative proposal for data protection in the NCTV, so that the club, whose results you have just mentioned, can do its job properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u250	The world isn't black and white. We are very critical of the way the NCTV has worked in certain areas. At the same time, we consider the Threat Image to be an important indication of the safety of the Netherlands. That is why we are talking about what has come out of this over the last two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u251	But it's two-and-a-half. The work of the NCTV is to draw up a Threat statue and then work together with the municipalities and the mayors to counter the threats that manifest in the municipalities. So you cannot applaud the work of the NCTV on the one hand and, on the other hand, be against the law that allows the processing of data within the NCTV. What is actually D66's position on the work of NCTV?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u252	I'm sorry, but this is bullshit. It's not two and one. You can be perfectly critical in how an organization deals with laws, rules and data and at the same time take an authority seriously because of what it does. There are just hundreds of analysts doing very good work. Of course, they also have a lot of information from the security services and the police. We say: on some points the NCTV has not done well and it seems as if the NCTV has broken the law. That the VVD chooses to overlook that, I think, quite frankly, that it says more about Mrs Michon than about how we deal with the Threat Image.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u253	This is a personal entrapment, because the VVD has advocated that this law be implemented quickly, so that it is clear that data processing within the NCTV is transparent within a legal framework. Now that was unclear. That needs to be clarified. As I hear you now, such a law will therefore be viewed positively within the D66 Group. I'm really looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u254	Let me add for the listener who no longer understands: Mrs Michon is talking about the NCTV law. That's not the point I made. I'm talking about the threat picture. The NCTV law will be discussed another time by my colleague Lisa van Ginneken. Perhaps you can continue your lobby there. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna move on to my last block of corona protests. We are dealing with anti-government sentiments and emerging anti-government sentiments. It is movement that, although it has links with the far right, is a different kind of threat. It is a movement which undermines our democracy, but which, strangely enough, also finds legitimacy in it. The rejection of our rule of law, holocaust and apartheid equations and threats: they are all phenomena in which even MPs are at the forefront and are reflected in society. It leads to more distrust, more hatred and more division. There is no time for facts or for the debate on them, let alone for the outline of dilemmas. Eventually, that also increases insecurity. I want to mark here that I don't think it's normal. The silent majority in society doesn't think this is normal either. As a Chamber, we have an exemplary role to play, and we have to deal with it responsibly. Our words matter!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u255	Thank you, Mrs Van der Werf. I shall then give the floor to your colleague, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u256	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I'll never get over it. Thank you! Make the Netherlands really safer. My group colleague Van der Werf mentioned it. For D66, that's the goal. It's not prejudice, it's realism. So certainly punish unacceptable behavior, but also look at what really works. That's why I'm so allergic to the rhetoric of "harder, harder, hardest." It is not only expensive, it also makes society more unsafe. Making the Netherlands really safer requires an effort from all ministries, not just from JenV. Because in a cross street you often encounter the best security policy. Instead of correcting it afterwards, we need to make the transition to pre-investment. We need to ensure pre-school education, work towards a start-up qualification for all young people and work towards an integrated approach to poverty, debt, unemployment and care. Mayors have already shown in their manifesto "Close the gap" that every euro we invest in this way pays out one and a half times. The Institute of Public Values showed how much profit there is still to be made with better cooperation on multi-problems between the social domain and the security angle in municipalities. Mr. Chairman. The directors of JenV can of course make their contribution, by doing at least three things: smart punishment, smart drug policy and smart investment. Mr. Chairman. Smart punishment. Look at what punishments lead to behavior change and less recidivism. This will reduce the number of victims and lower costs. Last month, the Council for Criminal and Youth Protection specifically translated this into its opinion: stop short prison sentences. They're counterproductive. They have a lot of detention damage: people lose their jobs or homes, there is little chance of behavior change and there is high recurrence. So bet on alternatives, such as community service and electronic detention. Why is the Minister waving this away so easily and continuing to haunt science? If people do disappear behind bars, let's at least make sure they have an insight into the conditions to prevent relapse. This can be relatively simple: to have a health insurance or benefit completed, or to arrange an ID card. To punish cleverly also helps more self-knowledge and say goodbye to outdated images about our so-called "soft" punishments. In the case of violent crimes, about 11% are punished more severely than 20 years ago. And in cases that come before the courts, we are now among the most severely punishing countries in Europe. Mr. Chairman. Also smart drug policy would make us much safer. As Nobel laureate Milton Friedman said in 1991: if you look at the war on drugs with economic glasses, then the government is the guardian angel of the drug cartel. Anno 2021 is still what is happening. And as defending the profit of drug criminals is not enough, some suggest that the scarce police capacity should not be used to prosecute criminal networks but to punish people with one ecstasy pill in their pockets. From a health point of view, there is certainly no argument for this. And it won't make us safe. That is why we need to look at regulation and international cooperation. So let us listen to the call of nearly 50 mayors in their manifesto against undermining crime and look at the movement in more and more other countries. It's not just Uruguay, it's not just Canada, it's not just more than ten states in the US. It is also Luxembourg, and perhaps Italy next year. And even at our gründliche oriental neighbors, the traffic light is green for regulation of the entire cannabis chain. In this way, we can control cultivation, standardise sales, inform the consumer and finally tax the product. Anyone who is Mafia expert Roberto Saviano or Peter R. de Vries for his cart would do well to take this part of their vision to heart. Mr. Chairman. I'm here to invest smartly. Here too, the adadium is an integral approach. After all, the judicial chain is as strong as the weakest link and as slow as the slowest. If we double the number of police officers, but don't appoint any extra judges, then we shouldn't be surprised if more criminals are not convicted. That is why we need to put the foundations in place across the board and invest in the challenges of the future, from police to prosecutors, from lawyer to judiciary and everything in between and beyond. Ministers reserve in the budget here and there money for 'chain effects'. However, the precise distribution is unclear, as is the precise calculation. Can the Minister explain this and ensure that all the links are sufficiently strengthened? Mr. Chairman. We must also invest smartly in access to justice in order to ensure the rule of law is working properly. For the social attorney, there is good news. Finally, we are going to implement the advice of the Van der Meer Committee. And yet I too am concerned about the declining amounts in the budget. The Secretary of Law will forgive me for hearing an echo of falling advertising revenue here. For the windfalls that have been received are more pro-bono cases by the commercial lawyer and the effects of the system review, while the not-mentioned setbacks "Groningen," the reflections on the premium affair, the new Code of Criminal Procedure, more legal aid for minors "Groningen" seem even more certain to me. Wouldn't it be wiser to book the profits only when they've actually been achieved? Finally, Mr President. Access to justice also means access to judicial decisions. Now only 10% is published. In the Home Affairs budget, I already advocated a legal obligation to publish judgments. Is the Minister prepared to prepare such a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u257	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Van Nispen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u258	Mr Sneller makes a fine and fair plea for the chain effects, not only for a robust funding of the police, but also for OM, justice, legal profession. That is quite right and beautiful. This creates high expectations about what we are about to read in the formation document. But I would like to give him a little extra time, because of course he did not have time to devote warm words to the Personal Data Authority, our privacy watchdog. That is why I would like to ask D66 what it is going to do with the amendment that the SP has tabled with the aim of taking a first step. We all know that more funding is needed. This is evident from all kinds of independent investigations. D66 has previously filed motions with the SP for additional funding. Now there is a concrete amendment with a concrete proposal for cover, namely the no longer collection of passenger data, the PNR data. That is a sound cover, for which the VVD just complimented me. I am therefore very curious to see what D66 will do with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u259	It is no surprise, I think, if I tell Mr Van Nispen that I think it is a nice amendment, but that we should take a closer look at how the EU-PNR debate is going and have some other discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u260	Thank you. Mrs. Kuik, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u261	I see that Mr Van Nispen is not yet satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u262	I wasn't expecting that either, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u263	Mr Sneller talks about the penalties here: they are rather increased. But that does not apply to penalties relating to drug crime. Can Mr Sneller also comment on this? In my opinion, this is one of the reasons why the location climate in the Netherlands is so attractive to drug criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u264	There are a lot of reasons why the location climate here is attractive. I happened to listen to what was said about the Italian mafia here in connection with working visits by colleagues to Italy. Why does he come here? There are many different reasons for this. Indeed, the penal climate, but especially the chance of getting caught, which is relatively low here, are great reasons for this. But the financial infrastructure and the good logistics in other debates we call that 'our locational climate' and then we are proud of it as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u265	Let me just get to the point about the war on drugs, which has never been there. Mr Sneller says: you should not criminalize that drug user. But hard drugs are illegal now. It's a criminal offence, we just don't keep it. Does Mr Sneller also see a relationship between production, trade and use? That it is a chain of drugs, and that the user is also responsible for maintaining that whole chain? Because the criminals get their money anyway if the user keeps using it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u266	Not if we were to regulate it. I think that is the whole solution: that we should regulate the drug chain much more often. And that is also the quote I have quoted: that the ban actually maintains the drug cartels and protects them and allows them to book those usury profits. So that would be the real solution. And at least let's start with soft drugs, like cannabis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u267	The Netherlands is of course not an island. I think we should isolate ourselves if we were to do so, and look at the prevention side and the repressive side, and protect young people from drugs; and yes, we should also look at how we operate in this international context. In my view, it is not as simple a solution as Mr Sneller says, and we really need to look at a broader package of measures to tackle these criminals. Because if you legalize it... I don't believe it. 80% of the production goes abroad. How does Mr Snelter see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u268	I can be quite clear about young people: we are fully equal in this respect. As for coffeeshops, no coffeeshop closed last year for selling to minors, while street dealers really make no distinction between a 12-year-old or an 18-year-old. So that's just a really bullshit argument from Mr. Kuik. But I have just outlined this international context, for example. And while we were sitting here at three o'clock this afternoon: in the German coalition agreement, our main exporting country announced in general terms that it was going to regulate weed. In spring there will be a referendum in Italy to legalize weed. It's legalized in Canada. It's legalized in Uruguay. In so many other countries this is already happening, that I think it is an illusion that we would isolate ourselves here from what is happening in other countries. It's more like the CDA that's haunted here, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u269	The last interruption of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u270	Then why have we become such an attractive drug country for the criminals? Doesn't it have anything to do with our policy of tolerance that Mexicans, Colombians, big drug lords, end up here in the Netherlands, because we have tolerated such a vague policy? You don't see that in other countries. So I'm warning my dearest neighbors at the border: watch out for what you bring in. 'Cause they're gonna have a problem with hard-on criminals too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u271	That's because we just allowed it at the back of the coffee shop for far too long. And this isn't about the last couple of years. The Manifest of Maastricht was from 2005, 2006. By then, we knew we had to regulate this. And that it is not the policy of tolerance, but it is not the culture that regulates and does not tolerate it, that it has made it possible for many criminals to build up a start-up capital and get a foothold here. So let's at least finally stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u272	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Podt, including from D66. And it's her maiden speech. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u273	Mr. Chairman. In 2014 I started as a council member in the Utrecht city council. I wanted to do in my own city what I had done internationally for years before: to make it better for people who don't have it all by themselves. And I raised my hand there for the asylum wallet, despite warnings that the municipality didn't actually do anything in that area. Until 2015. Utrecht opened an emergency shelter for asylum seekers, where people on the run from war and violence on mattress had to sleep on the floor. It was a fierce time, with strong debates, emotional protests from the neighborhood, and a lot of residents volunteering to help newcomers find their place in our city. It was also a time that formed me as a politician. The realization that you can change things if you are honest about the sometimes difficult considerations you make, and if you continue to realize that people often have more in common than they do; also those neighbourhood residents and those asylum seekers. In local politics, I learned things I like to take to this place, right here in the Chamber. First of all, acceptance is not a natural law. There is much you can do to undermine or increase support for the reception of asylum seekers. You can tell fables to scare people or you can set up facilities like the Utrecht asylum shelter Plan Einstein, where asylum seekers and neighborhood residents benefit from together. Second, do what works. Based on research, facts and practice. Local administrators, organisations and citizens are too often confronted with rules that are more of the drawing board than of practice. Finally, refugees and migrants are not just victims. It is mainly people with experience and skills who can and want to engage, such as the Afghan mayor of the shelter in Harkamp, who helped the COA with the organisation of the refugee camp with its residents. These three lessons are the thread of my story today. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I also take a déjà vu from Utrecht from the problems in the asylum shelter, from people sleeping on chairs in Ter Apel to the protests in Harkamp to the crashing emergency tents in Heumensoord. It is miserable that we do not welcome people who have often fled war and violence better and that we still rob municipalities again. But it is particularly miserable, because we could have been so much better prepared if we had put the lessons from 2015 and 2016 into practice by flexibly setting up reception locations and not directly reducing the capacity of the COA and the IND if fewer people come. That is why I have questions for the Secretary of State on the multiannual production forecast. This is an expensive word in the budget for planning reception and procedures for asylum seekers. If the COA indicates that it received another request to close asylum shelter just before the summer, you can see that the MPP is not in line with reality. How is that possible? For example, higher after-travel was fairly predictable. How are we gonna get this right next time? Let us take another critical look at the conditions that the COA imposes on reception locations. Wouldn't more flexibility in the framework conditions for municipalities help to get more locations? When will there finally be an extra registration center to relieve Ter Apel? These problems are not helping to increase the support I previously appointed. Many municipalities want to help, but you can't rob them at the last minute with a lot of people in mediocre care. Then you run out of support. As far as D66 is concerned, structural financing of the chain is therefore necessary for more peace and support. How does the Secretary of State reflect on the past period? Mr. Chairman. Another thing I took from Utrecht is to do what works. For example, D66 asked for easier arrangements to make it possible for people to stay with friends or family outside the shelter. Let's do everything we can to clear the beds at the COA. I have two questions. Can we arrange for asylum seekers who have to report, who can do so as close as possible to the police in the municipality where they are staying, if necessary? Can asylum seekers who live with family keep their living money? We're already saving the real cost because people don't need that bed. Mr. Chairman. Doing what works also means investing in young people who have come to the Netherlands. Kids have often been through violent things. The National Ombudsman has already pointed out the importance of continued care for single minors. These are young people who came to the Netherlands alone. D66 would like these young people, like other Dutch young people, to be able to receive more guidance after their 18th year if necessary. The VNG also asked for funding to be arranged at least for the coming year. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the European migration policy, or rather the lack of it. What is currently happening at our external borders cannot go unnamed. Illegal pushbacks seem to normalize. Volunteers who offer help will be brought to justice in Greece. Migrants are used as a geopolitical weapon to blackmail the EU. This has nothing to do with migration policy anymore, but it is a consequence of the lack of it. In this context, what is the Netherlands doing to mark the fact that human rights are not negotiable? However complicated this issue may be, D66 is convinced that there is more that binds us than divides us in Europe. More than ever, there is a need for a shared long-term perspective on migration. In this context, my predecessor Maarten Groothuizen last year called for controlled experiments with more legal labour migration from outside the EU in order to counter jobless asylum applications from economic migrants and instead to provide them with real opportunities for employment and development. Because, as I said, migrants and refugees are people with skills and experience to deploy. And that brings me back to what I started my speech with. Because in Utrecht, however complex things may be, people have more in common than they do. There are few themes where opinions differ as much as on migration, but I believe that most people in this room, in congregations in the Netherlands, and not least those who come to the Netherlands, are desperate for solutions. Solutions that work, that build on the support that exists everywhere and that use the capacities of refugees and migrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u274	Thank you, Mrs Podt. Congratulations on your maiden speech. It is nice to see that since today we have two very motivated, passionate people in our midst. Good luck in this room. I will suspend the sitting for a moment so that you can receive the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u275	I give the floor to Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u276	You'd better stand there as a cop. You go out on Saturday night for a normal shift and it ends with being plundered with explosives and feeling the need to pull your firearm and shoot with a sharp shot to protect your colleagues and yourself. Those images touched me and I was furious about what happened in my city, like so many. Fortunately, Rotterdammers also literally opened the doors. A colleague of my husband was with a friend in town. She came from out of town and said, "I've never felt so scared in my life." They rang the doorbell at random. Literally, the door opened. They could hide, got food and even stayed asleep and were taken home. A police officer posted the following message on Instagram yesterday, along with a selfie that is on the ME bus with such a glass cap on it: "A photo from last Friday during the riots when we were still in the ME bus because we had to retreat. Quickly take a picture to send home because from now on I'm just unreachable and they have to watch the news or wait until I send another app." What would the home front do? Waiting nervously for a message without knowing anything or getting even more nervous by following the news and knowing what's going on? This touches you all the way down, not only because the riots hit you or because the cowardly attacks on agents in peace uniform make you angry but especially in the light of what we are doing with each other here today in the House of Representatives. With JenV's budget today, we are talking about how we send our cops out and how they can do their job. In fact, everything we're discussing here affects how they can do their job and how they're being treated on the street. Yes, this budget places extra emphasis on tackling undermining, strengthening protection of threatened persons, additional money for social lawyers and access to justice. And a further 200 million has been added to the General Reviews to invest in the police and the boas. Well, we're done talking, hopefully thinking the many viewers at home, but no, we're not done talking at all. Because where it's recently code black in health care, it's been code black with the police for years. The district agent is never in the neighborhood at all, because as the fire department he has to go from incident to surveillance of serious criminals to riot, demonstration and administrative desire. Notifications stay down because there's no one to treat them. And if you call the police and it's not that urgent, it can happen that they don't show up at all, because they can't show up. In the meantime, this outgoing cabinet is making a mess of things, because no major social issue is being tackled vigorously. The basic tasks that the government should carry out, just making us all feel safe, are actually out of order. Confidence in government is therefore at a low point. In addition, we are gradually turning into a narcostat. The images of those riots and the statue of that stone through that window at the ambulance are flying the world over. And then the Prime Minister says: I don't really want to go into the underlying sociological causes. Well, I get that, because I think he'd get to himself pretty soon. We just keep sending the police out on the street, understaffed, with no time to operate preventively. Those criminal thugs have to be tough on you, and in the meantime you must always want to understand the wide layer of displeasure you have to deal with. You need to invest in a government that stands between the people in the district and solves those problems when needed, and you need to invest in a police force that can just do its job properly. The agent's Instagram message ended as follows. "For me, the Coolsingel is now the street where we are crowned with huge stones, curbs, metal pipes, metal gates, traffic signs, poles, nitrates, cobras and flares that were aimed at us and exploded just before or behind us. Hiding the fire department's gonna pull out because we couldn't protect them anymore, because too many things were thrown, that does something to you. [...] Looking back I am proud of us, the aid workers and proud of my city. Unfortunately, our beautiful city has experienced worse things and has been rebuilt, so this will be fine too!" Finally, the policeman writes, "If it happens again, we'll be back." My question to the Minister: can the Minister reflect on how this budget is going to ensure that this agent does not want to have to stand there again? Now it has gotten extremely out of hand in Rotterdam. It took 400 agents from all over the country to put things in order. What if things got out of hand in two cities at once? For example, it was not so bad in The Hague. What look of cops does the minister open? Can we even manage two major riots at the same time as the Netherlands? Can the Minister not see that this is actually a scenario, with all the social unrest that is getting closer and closer? Does the Minister agree that if we had invested in more district agents and youth workers, we could have known that the hell would break out in Rotterdam? By the way, fuck you. I'm afraid and I've been shouting that for years, whether it's in the city council in Rotterdam or here, that there aren't enough cops. I'm afraid we can't handle it and the Minister will have to make sharp choices. Tell me, what does the Minister think we shouldn't do anymore? Don't let demonstrations go on? Playing risk games without an audience? No more breaking and entering? We simply don't have the police officers to do anything anymore. How does the Minister respond to the Fundament report, which states that the police need 300 million structurally to get that foundation in order? Is the Minister prepared to comply with that? If not, what are we going to do? The supporters' riots eat up police capacity, which we can't use in neighborhoods, in burglaries or in sex crimes. We are very pleased with the Minister's letter on his approach, but we also have questions. What exactly is required in the safety licence? Will there be a mandatory minimum amount for security measures? Would the Minister like to enforce this? Lick-on-piece policy is nice to catch the perpetrator as an individual, but what do you think of lick-on-piece policy in the sanctioning of the football club itself? Then there is another point: access to justice. This has also been discussed many times today. It is, of course, a very important and important subject for the Labour Party. Following the adoption of the Ploumen/Klaver motion, this budget has been structurally invested in the accessibility of law and social law. There is now a proposal for mediation. Mediation sounds nice, but those who need the law the most, those who feel the hardest caught by the government last year, the people with a small scholarship................................................................................................................................................. They just need a lawyer. Can the Minister assure us that these people will not be the victims of mediation plans and can simply continue to rely on a lawyer as easily as possible? There are also major concerns about tackling street harassment. The colleague of D66 also referred to it. In 2018, the PvdA came together with the CDA with a law banning street intimidation. Both Minister Grapperhaus and Minister Dekker have promised to work on this. Where's the law? Is the Minister prepared to send that bill to the Chamber within three months? This isn't a political issue. As Mrs van der Werf said, 80% of women suffer from this and no longer dare to go on the streets. I didn't bring my key for nothing, because I went down the street like this for five years at night. Then the asylum shelter. It squeaks and it cracks. In Leeuwarden, thousands of people sit on top of each other in a large hall with curtains as a door. This is how we catch people working side by side with us in Afghanistan. I use the same words as my SP colleague: that is simply shameless. How does this reconcile with the warm welcome policy that was welcomed by Chamberwide? What's the cause of this? In my view, nothing but mischief, because the cabinet closes these locations over and over and over again and then gets robbed again and again when more people apply for asylum. Will the Secretary of State finally make this small-scale reception possible? Actually, it beeps and cracks all over the asylum chain. The missionary cabinet's promises were clear: by the end of 2021, all delays with IND would have been eliminated. What do we see in practice? The so-called stockpiling of asylum matters is already on the rise. Many asylum procedures are still not dealt with in the legal decision-making period. This has a huge impact on people who live in constant uncertainty. How is the Secretary of State going to prevent us from having to deal with another major backlog at the beginning of 2022? Then it is also time at the end of Rutte III to take stock of the Moria deal, which closed the cabinet after the devastating fire in a refugee camp on Lesbos. Instead of 50 single children, the cabinet caught up to two. The excuse: there wouldn't be enough children under 14 years of age, a whole arbitrary border, coming from unsafe countries. Afghans were not yet eligible for this, because until recently Afghanistan was considered safe. With the Taliban in power and a departure Moratorium to Afghanistan in force, the cabinet, like the Labour Party, now also sees the possibility to still honour the promise of the Moria Deal. Then I would also like to take a moment to draw attention to a vulnerable group, single minor licence holders. Through the VNG, the municipalities argue for an integrated approach, extended reception and guidance up to 21 years to promote successful integration and later prevent social additional costs or a future in ruins. Can the Secretary of State indicate which of the recommendations contained in the 2018 evaluation report are adopted in the short term for the reception and supervision of single minor licence holders? Finally, something quite different: the Law on compensation for damage in the event of disasters. We also have to discuss it here at JenV. I'll take you back to Limburg, to that extreme water disaster that happened there. It was rightly declared a disaster by this cabinet. The Disaster Compensation Act has been used to accommodate affected residents, businesses and governments for damage that is not reasonably insurable, recoverable or avoidable. There is a risk of being identified separately for each disaster. Public authorities are compensated for only 58.5% of the damage to public infrastructure and only 65% of the cost of clean-up. Affected municipalities are expected to pay millions to tens of millions out of their own funds. In addition, there are all kinds of other costs after a disaster that are not covered by the Wts, such as aftercare of the injured or transportation of children who due to the damage have to go to school elsewhere. The PvdA believes that the disaster fund should be raised by 50 million to help municipalities settle the water damage and that the laws and regulations should be adapted to make this legally possible. We will table an amendment to this effect, but I would first like to hear from the Minister how he himself looks at the resolution of the damage in Limburg. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u277	Thank you, Mrs Kathmann. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Hilde Palland will be responsible for the police and the entire security chain. I'll talk about undermining, drug crime and asylum. When I started reading myself as a spokesperson in the area of undermining and security, going out and having conversations, I was shocked by the state of our rule of law. We Dutch are traditionally proud of our freedom, proud of our fundamental rights and our way of life. It has gone well for a long time, but we have been naive, because freedom without responsibility leads to social misery and a rule of law that comes under pressure. The same applies to drug policy. Liquidations, misdemeanours, threats, corruption and extortion, brutal behavior and severe violence are not left in that criminal underworld. Attorneys, administrators and journalists are increasingly targeted by drug criminals. It is not just about innocent adults, but also about children, who are withdrawn from drug crime at an early age. A long-standing mix of mild punishments, favourable distribution possibilities and socio-economic vulnerability against the background of a tolerated culture has anchored the position of the Netherlands in international drug trafficking. The Netherlands has become one of the drug warehouses of the world. We're paying an ever higher price for that. Drug criminals make such huge amounts of money that they can force themselves to be unassailable and with money or intimidation. Organised crime is taking over our rule of law. Our society is at stake. We must dare to normalize again. The Minister has laid the foundations for tackling drug-criminal undermining harder. We must now continue to combine forces from different forces, from international to local, and from different sides, from prevention to repression, and to defeat the multifaceted monster of drug crime. We are dealing with a next level of crime, which we need to counter next level legislation. Italian-style anti-mafia legislation is needed in the case of the CDA, aimed at prevention and a stricter prison regime. It must no longer be possible to continue your empire from prison. Minister Grapperhaus has legislation in consultation on the removal of assets. The CDA wants us to invest the money, the cars and the houses we take back in the neighbourhoods that are suffering. At the APB, Heerma and Hermans together tabled a motion on the recovery fund. Can the Minister indicate what steps have been taken in this regard? Can the Minister also comment on whether it is possible to assign criminal curators to retrieve hidden assets abroad to the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. It has already been mentioned: smarter information sharing to track down criminals. The G4 also indicates that this has great urgency. The criminals are innovating, while the government is lagging behind in this area due to outdated legislation. This is also of utmost importance for the introduction of the WGS and the renewal of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Will the Minister respond to this call from the G4? Mr. Chairman. The key to success in the anti-Mafia approach in Italy was not only a package of policies, but also the community that united against the Mafia. The same change in thinking is needed in the Netherlands with regard to drug crime. We can't afford to be naive about drugs. The government can't do this alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u279	Let's just get back to the previous point. That was about the importance of tackling crime money. Of course, we agree with that, although I believe that it has been far too little for years. It is estimated that €16 billion is laundered each year. How much is taken from it? Often not even 300 million euros a year. Now the CDA sees a lot of good in a takeaway fund. Of course, we've heard that before. However, a fund is no more than a savings fund where you put the proceeds of taking it into. Suppose it's disappointing once, then you don't have the resources to invest in taking it away. Why does the CDA not come up with a proposal to just invest more in financial detectives, for example, in better cooperation between OM and FIOD and in tackling the upper world where it works with the underworld? Please support the amendment the SP has tabled for additional financial detectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u280	It is good to see that we need to take more away from criminals and, in my opinion, we support the law that the minister is consulting. That's gotta be more. Mr Van Nispen is of course right that such a return fund is not structural. It's not a takeaway fund, it's a giveaway fund to neighborhoods suffering from it. That's not structural. However, I think it is important that we do this, because it is also part of prevention. Young people see in the neighborhood: "o, that bin has been taken away" or "o, that house has been confiscated and that is returned to the neighborhood." Apart from the point made by Mr Van Nispen in the second instance, I think it is important to show this, also in the context of prevention. Then there was the point Mr Van Nispen made about financial detectives. Financial detectives make more than their money. That's why we invest in it. As far as I am concerned, we must make every effort to do so. Only, when I look at Mr Van Nispen's amendment, I see that he takes the cover of the Passenger Name Record, the PNR. If that's not true, I'm gonna have to take a closer look at that. I'd love to hear it. When I see that cover, it doesn't make me happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u281	I have a very brief correction: this is about the amendment for the privacy supervisor, which the CDA had no intention of investing in anyway. When it comes to taking and hiring more financial detectives, Mrs. Kuik just said herself that this is paying herself back. That is the cover for that amendment, so something is going wrong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u282	Let me take a closer look at that amendment. Mr. Chairman. I had stuck to the following: the government can't do it alone. Drugs are established in the Netherlands. The idea is that use, production and trade have nothing to do with each other, while drug production has everything to do with each other: from raw material to pill or gram, from coke to the consequences of the use for the user and the environment. As far as the CDA is concerned, we cannot, on the one hand, express our horror at drug dumping, murder and undermining, while, on the other hand, shrugging our shoulders on the use of pills or coke in our community. Can the Minister indicate on what scale the possession of hard drugs is actually fined? 'Cause it's a criminal offence. How can the minister help municipalities? Small municipalities struggle very much with the approach of undermining. Municipalities now have to fight against the lawyers who are hired with a lot of drug money in their approach to undermining their lawyers. We want a nationwide, highly specialised, legal counter against undermining, which is also available to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u283	I'm intrigued that the CDA would like to punish people, even if they only have one pill on them. I wonder how the CDA sees this, with all the enforcement problems and assignments that are already there for the police? How much money does it take? How many boas or how many cops need to be trained to pay for one pill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u284	It's now being said "one pill." Mrs van der Plas says it as if it doesn't matter, but it does matter. Users will keep a system in place. It gets drug criminals a lot of money. There's billions of dollars in it. If we constantly neglect this point and say: it is criminal, but we are not going to maintain it, then it has its effects. It has an effect on the standardisation of drugs: do we think it's normal or not? It also affects the threshold for young people to say: if it is normal to use, why would it be abnormal to deliver it? 'Cause people use it anyway. Mrs van der Plas asks how we should maintain that. For example, we now have festivals where 90% of people are under the influence of drugs. There are enforcement plans for this, but it is not maintained. Start there! Just start there once. That's where people have to maintain, but it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u285	I think this is a very strange example. At festivals people may use drugs or pills, but festivals don't get out of hand with riots or break things up. There doesn't need to be a battery of police cars on the Brink in Deventer because there's a festival. That's because of alcohol. I do not see at all what its added value is to maintain it. Perhaps Mrs Kuik can clarify that. As far as I know, festivals just always go in a lot of cheerfulness and good harmony.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u286	Yeah, but then it's still about the point: do you see there's a chain and that use leads to something? If you keep saying that everyone gets to go their own way, then an industry is maintained. We have to set certain standards for this, because we see how many billions are involved in this crime and we see how our rule of law is being undermined. That's what I'm talking about. Ordinary Dutch people are threatened and intimidated and are sometimes even victims of liquidations and murders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u287	Mrs. Kuik actually throws everything a bit at one heap. Of course, I also believe that drug crime should be combated. Let's put that first. There's no question about that. But why won't the CDA even see how you can regulate that? In that respect, I agree very well with what the SP said. If it's regulated, or if it's made legal, let's start with cannabis, and the government oversees it, then you're taking away a lot of that drug crime. After all, the government has it in its hands. Apart from that, you're also talking about its quality. Why don't people die of alcohol here? Well, unless you really drink three bottles of vodka, but not a glass of vodka, like in Russia. That's because it's regulated here. It's just a set of rules. Why won't the CDA take a look at that? Now it's like putting a horse behind the cart and spending a lot of money on those few people who take a pill once or smoke a joint. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u288	In my view, this is a bit naive. It's not a few people using a few pills or some coke. 40,000 lines of coke are sniffed daily in a city like Rotterdam alone. That's gonna get the drug criminals a lot of money. We'll keep the industry alive if we keep saying it has nothing to do with production or a drug criminal. Mrs Van der Plas says: legalize it, because then it will be resolved. 80% of production goes abroad, so that can't be the solution. In my opinion, we should not be too afraid to set standards in the Netherlands. If we say that products are illegal and criminal, then you will have to maintain them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u289	Mrs. Kuik is making it a big party. She's talking about cocaine sniffers. I didn't talk about that at all. I didn't put the word cocaine in my mouth at all. I was talking about a joint or a pill. I'm not talking about cokeheads and millions of kilos that go through...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u290	Pills are also hard drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u291	Yeah, but okay. Words are put in my mouth. What concerns me about this proposal is that there is enormous pressure on police and enforcement, even though they are already very busy. There's already a shortage in the police department. We all know that. There is a second point I am concerned about. I'm curious how Mrs. Kuik looks at that. Not everyone who takes a pill is a junkie. Of course, you want them to get rid of those pills and not use drugs. I understand that, and I want to. A low user might think: I don't want to report to a general practitioner or an organization. Maybe they're afraid they're gonna get ratted out or fined. Especially young people can play that game. So you also put the horse behind the cart in prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u292	Mrs. Van der Plas says I'm worried about the police. What worries me is that we are now being undermined, that our rule of law is being undermined, that it is difficult for the police to work because they are threatened and intimidated, that it is difficult for judges to work because lawsuits are being undermined, and that it is increasingly difficult for journalists to do their job because they are threatened and intimidated. We are being taken over by drug criminals who make so much money in the Netherlands. We have a very nice locational environment for drug criminals. The Mexicans and the Colombians are settling here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u293	Thank you. I hear a lot of repetition now. Maybe you're at the end of your discussion. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u294	Finally, I would like to comment on that. I'm not talking about the Colombians and the cocaine. We can dim that forever, but let's not do that. I think it's much better to use all those people in the police department where things are really big, instead of picking out the one user you happen to see on the street, who has a bag of pills in his pocket and then has to be fined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u295	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u296	That is something a court should consider again. We don't all have time and money for that, do we? We have big business to take care of, don't we, little business?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u297	Perhaps it would be a good idea if I also sent the vision to Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u298	That's not exactly the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u299	There is one point being highlighted now, but we have a much broader story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u300	A question is being asked by Mrs Van der Plas. We're not gonna repeat whole notes that are valuable in themselves. Please use your input for that question, Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u301	The CDA has a plan with more than 20 proposals, in which the police are stunted and supported and our rule of law is taken back for a while. It's being taken over by criminals now. The point Mrs Van der Plas is taking out is not on her own. It's a package of measures. Of course, the police have to use the big networks, where earning models have to be crossed. It's not like I'm saying, put everything on that drug user. No, it's a small part of a much broader plan, and we're actually putting the laws on those mob bosses tighter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u302	I would also like to say that I really admire the twenty parts of the plan. Lots of things look good, too. But this part is not taken out by the Chamber, but by Mrs Kuik herself. You were in the news with that, too. That is why I have two questions. Exactly that, for example, also gave the police palpitations. You wonder why we simply don't have the guts to deal with the user. Every user is indeed part of the system, but that is not the point. We do have the guts, but we only know that criminalising use does not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u303	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u304	So the question is: if we know it doesn't work, why do you share it? Then where are you gonna get those cops? And also to you the question: what are we going to do next if you do want to maintain drug users at events?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u305	Of course, I'm not entirely directing what exactly is going on in the media. I had a conversation about all the parts. But this is a part that I fully support, because you have to look at the whole chain. So you have to look at how to deal with the producers harder, but you also have to look at who's part of that chain. That's the drug user, too. If I look at the example of the festivals, there must be enforcement already. Only now they're gonna let it go, and they're gonna say, "You don't have five pills until you've got a problem." I think you can say at the front: it's a criminal offence, one pill already, you're maintaining a system and you're also partly responsible for the fact that drug criminals make huge amounts of money here and can therefore continue their undermining practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u306	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Kathmann.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u307	Where are you gonna get the cops? And then what are we gonna stop the cops from doing? Isn't that gonna show up at a burglary? Is sex crimes even less likely to follow? What are we not going to do if we have to maintain at festivals now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u308	It's not or-or. You need to look at a whole package of measures. That's why I'm making these 20 proposals. You have to go hard on the bosses, but you also have to look at the whole chain. If you are looking at festivals now, for example such an ADE festival, then it should be maintained there. So those enforcement guys are already standing there. At these festivals, I don't think it's that exciting. For the rest, of course, we are also investing extra in detection and justice, even when it comes to mapping out these broad earning models. The CDA also proposes to make more money available for this. So it's not like I'm saying for free: fix it. We're actually putting extra money in there. We also see that mayors indicate: just give us tools to beat off all the heads of this multi-headed monster. Now the user is actually co-responsible, but we do not have the debate on this in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u309	I think Mrs. Kuik knows what happens when you knock off a head of Hydra. To add to Mrs Kathmann's comments, half of the detection capacity is already going to drugs. There's not enough to expose those criminal networks. And then there has to be some sort of 100% control of those pills at the festivals, but also daroutdoors. Of course, choices have to be made. The sums that should be added in order to do it all 100% cannot be delivered by Mrs Kuik either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u310	Mrs. Kuik, a reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u311	I don't think those festivals are that hard. But it is also a matter of principle. We see that our rule of law is simply suffering from the intimidation and threat of the major drug criminals who find the Netherlands an all too pleasant country to stay in. You will also have to have the debate in society: do we still want this? In Italy, you saw it. There the mothers once said, "Basta, it's done once." In our society, we must also engage in this debate. If we say that we no longer tolerate drug criminals undermining our rule of law, intimidating our journalists and threatening our judges, then we will also have to see how we maintain this system. The user is a part of that, because he gets the money for those criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u312	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u313	Mr. Chairman. So the CDA wants to kick the crap out of drug crime. But there are no simple solutions to this. The whole chain will need to be strengthened in terms of resources. We want to stand for our young people, our maintainers and all those well-intentioned inhabitants of our towns and villages, for whom this wave of crime is becoming an increasingly threatening development. When it comes to threats to people who exercise their profession fairly, I ask the Minister if we can no longer do with smarter security cameras, for example in remote areas. I hear farmers who are threatened if they do not make their barn available, but also forest rangers and journalists are threatened. So please answer my question about smarter security systems. Finally, my part on asylum and migration. We see horrible images from Belarus, where people become the center of a political game. This cannot be solved by countries in Europe alone. It shows all the more the urgency of a European approach to migration. The vast majority of the people who had to flee reside in the region. The basic conditions there need to be improved. For the host countries, it is equally important for their own people to benefit from reception in the region. We, the leader of the rich countries, must also contribute our share to those fleeing war and violence. We see that people, as well as children, are going through a lot when they flee war and violence. That is why the psychosocial support now provided by TeamUp is so important. I'm asking the Secretary of State if she can update on the resilience of this. I would also like to ask her about a group of families we have heard about, who apparently did not fill out a form. What's the deal with that, exactly? I don't get it. Mr President, I shall conclude. We also see people who do not have a chance to stay here, but who do behave intimidatingly and asoically. That does something for our support. The people who really deserve our help are the victims of this. How can we deal with that more strictly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u314	We all see, except perhaps the CDA Group, that it is no longer possible with that asylum influx. There's now 5,000 to 6,000 coming in a month. The costs are enormous and the insecurity is increasing. I hear Mrs Kuik from the CDA argue that people who are not entitled to asylum should not stay here, but illegals in the Netherlands are being treated by CDA mayors. CDA mayors in the country call for illegals to give bed-bath bread. You don't think that's gonna be a tribunal? Do you not think that if no one stops this policy and facilitates CDA mayors illegals, that is also criminal towards the Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u315	Mrs. Kuik. This was your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u316	I was also in the city council of Groningen. There we indeed had a group of people who were illegal, who could not go anywhere and who wandered on the street. Then I am glad that there are reception points that are the LVV where people are being received who are indeed getting bed and bread, but who are also being helped to go back. There's a long way to go. I think it is very good and humane that we should do so and that we should really focus on their return.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u317	I'm not going to ask questions about drugs, although I would have liked to, but that discussion has been conducted sufficiently. I'm gonna ask you a question about the children's pardon. We were together yesterday at the Ljowa petition. There was a high school class outside. So, what's going on? There are probably about ten, or ten, similar cases in the Netherlands of children born after their parents' asylum application and who have therefore fallen into some kind of procedural bureaucracy. The government says that they are not entitled to asylum and should therefore leave. A 7-year-old boy, Mrs. Chicken saw him yesterday, has lived here all his life. Shall we try to find a good solution for that small number of people, kids?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u318	That's right, we had a petition yesterday. I think that every time things don't go well, as an asylum spokesperson, you should have a conversation. But what I find uncomfortable and what I want to be careful about is that we are going to judge individual cases here in the Chamber every time. You want to avoid some sort of... The Voice of Holland is not a good comparison, but you don't want something like that. That is why I ask the Secretary of State about the group that was provided by Defence for Children. Something seems to have gone wrong with a form, but you only hear one side of the story and I don't know the other side, I haven't given enough thought to that. So I passed this question on to the Secretary of State, but I want to be careful to say in the Chamber about individual cases, "Well, as far as I'm concerned, you're staying," no matter how cool it was that those kids were all standing up for their classmates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u319	I totally agree with Mrs Kuik. Of course. For very exceptional cases you should have discretion, but I leave that to the forming parties; I already read nice things about it in the newspaper. By the way, it was also in the newspaper this morning, you shouldn't believe everything, what is in the paper.... that I am going to table a motion tomorrow and that it will be supported by CDA, ChristenUnion, PvdA and D66. And this motion would be about cases like the little boy Ljowa. So not the case Ljowa, no: cases like. And that's about ten. Is that right? Does this message make any sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u320	I don't know how they got that, because I haven't spoken to them. And I don't know what the Secretary of State's gonna say yet, so it's special that they might already know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u321	You're going to continue your speech again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u322	Mr. Chairman. Finally, Ter Apel's point. We see another peak coming. It can't be that one community has to carry everything every time. I would like a response from the Secretary of State that this will be resolved in the near future. I think it's mainly the flow that doesn't start.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u323	Thank you very much, Mrs Kuik. I shall then give the floor to your colleague, Mrs Palland, also from the CDA. For the Members, I would like to suspend at 7 p.m. for a 45-minute dinner break. Then you can take that into account. I call Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u324	Thank you, Mr President. I hope my voice holds up. Mr. Chairman. Christian democracy uses the relational image of man: man is not on his own, but always in relation to the other. In a relationship the other appeals to me, let the other one not leave me untouched, my objectivity and my perspective are challenged. In the end, that is also the practice of human action. This may be the case to the ultimate extent for men and women who, when it comes to safety, take a step forward: police, boas, firefighters, but also drivers who are responsible for safety in their municipalities and judges who sometimes have to make judgements in difficult cases. Mr. Chairman. Security and protection must enable citizens to rely on a democratic rule of law. That starts with speaking to each other, decency on the street and here in the Chamber, the presence of a district agent, and continues to protect in cyberspace. The rule of law is not a peaceful possession. It must be invested in it and, fortunately, this is increasingly happening, including through the means of Princess Day and the Hermans motion, with additional means of access to justice through social lawyers, pilots and new forms of justice, for example neighbourhood justice and the court of consultation. Mr. Chairman. In my contribution to the budget, I focus on a number of partners in the chain, starting with our police, vigilant and serviceable. You can talk to them. They're there in our communities. We teach our kids that they're our friend that you can ask for help. And they, all those policemen, take a step forward when it's exciting and our security is at stake. Unfortunately, we have seen again in the past week how heavy and dangerous that work can be, with the riots in Rotterdam and also in other municipalities. I'm worried that we're gonna find it almost normal that our policemen are being attacked and attacked with heavy fireworks. That's not normal. It's not a demonstration, it's not part of the police officer's work. I am pleased that many Rotterdamers have spoken out. As a society, we must also speak out against this. Demonstrating is a fundamental right, but putting your city on hold and endangering the lives of police officers and others has nothing to do with that. That's just criminal. Hands off our helpers! Several people have already been arrested. As far as we're concerned, quick trial. At home we also need to talk to young people: don't be a cheerleader. As far as young people are concerned, as far as they have to appear before the courts, it is important for the CDA to include parents. I ask the Minister how parents' apparitions to minor suspects of the riots are carried out. It's crucial that parents get into position, too. A second question is: how could things get so out of hand? We read all kinds of analyses of that, of experts or lecturers public trust. Could the Minister please give the Chamber the opportunity to attend? provide a more detailed analysis of the underlying cause of these riots? Mr. Chairman. The police organization must be up-to-date and strong, and she's not. We know that, and that's what we talk about a lot in this Chamber. It is therefore a good thing that many of the funds made available are for the benefit of the police, because the capacity problems are severe, even in the future. But it is important that our police as community police, community police, are close, in the neighborhood, in the neighborhood, between and among the people, and that we can keep doing that. What about the training capacity for police officers? The training has been reduced, but we will need to do more and perhaps also make extra efforts on new specialties such as cyber detection. Would it eventually be an idea to set up a second police academy? How does the Minister view this? Mr President, more specifically on cybersecurity. In Apeldoorn, the Centre for Security and Digitisation has been launched as a collaboration between educational institutions, the University of Twente, Saxion and the Police College. Entrepreneurs and public institutions share issues of security and digital transformation, a good initiative. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether it has any added value for us to join this centre in terms of our national questions and knowledge needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u325	Thank you. There are a few interruptions, first of all from Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u326	I'm just gonna take a little step back to the police, the neighborhood agents and the police stations. Since 1980 we have had 19 years of CDA ministers on Justice and Security. And we've had the CDA in the cabinet for 28 years. There have been frequent cuts in the police, which has led to the disappearance of a large number of police posts, particularly in the provinces, as well as the district police officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u327	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u328	My question is: can the CDA indicate whether the party is willing to provide some kind of long-term forecast for the police? What happened in the past with cuts, that's what happened. But the police too, of course, will benefit from a long-term vision "we can go on, what can we do," just like entrepreneurs. How does the CDA see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u329	Sure, that's very important. That is why it is a good thing that we have increased our investment and that it is structural. The question is whether that is enough, but we need to look at young agents in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u330	That's good to hear anyway. But what matters more to me is this. Entrepreneurs, as you can see in the agricultural sector too, say: we simply need to be able to look 20, 30 years ahead, to make policies and to invest in them. With the police, of course, you can see very quickly that there are cuts or more. My specific question is how the CDA sees this, perhaps in a new coalition. Is there going to be some kind of long-term vision of Justice and Security in general, but for the police in particular? And will the police station be back in the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u331	For all our plans and views on the police, I would like to refer you to our election program. There are wonderful things in that. Now there are formation meetings taking place. What we are committed to, you can read back in the election program. Again, that long-term perspective is of course important and we also have structural investment here. That's gotta be perspective. The sector itself also comes up with the Pact for the Rule of Law. This is also an important framework to provide. These are the long-term lines along which our commitment is directed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u332	Thank you. Your last interruption, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u333	Election programs, I don't believe in that. Except for our own, of course. It's like a house. No, yeah, you often see things in there that aren't being observed at all. So I don't believe in that very much, but perhaps in the formation. I don't know if you have the right to speak. Is there anything you can say about that? Is such a long-term vision being discussed within the party? Will it be inserted for a possible new coalition agreement, so that we know where we are next?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u334	We spoke yesterday at the settlement about a breeding chicken or that it is an elephant that is pregnant, because the process takes quite some time. Don't bother him. I'll tell you what my bet is and what the CDA's bet is. I do not think that anyone here in the Chamber disagrees on that long-term perspective. The question is, where do you put the accents? With us, of course, these are also in area-related police care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u335	Then Mr Van Nispen, SP. It's also your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u336	That is tragic, Mr President, but it is no different. Mrs van der Plas, of course, had a good point, namely that the police are partly because of the CDA policy and not to mention the VVD policy of recent years. Mrs Palland acknowledges that there is a capacity shortage and that we have major problems. I didn't quite understand the proposal for a second police academy. Perhaps that could be explained further. For you, there was a speaker from a certain party who had the rather miserable plan to put every xtc pill on the desk of the police in future, resulting in a considerable additional burden on enforcement. The whole plan has been criticized by all kinds of experts, but what does Mrs Palland, as spokesperson for the police, think about another extra task being put on the table by the police without making any concrete proposals to invest in additional police capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u337	That's not a new, extra job. The question is how you handle it and also what signal we send to users. I find it rather shocking that so easily thought is being given here about 'a pill'. That's not normal. You can't do that at all. I don't think it's okay that we let those standards fade, with all the consequences of that. Of course, choosing out of scarcity with the police. That is already the case and will be the case in that situation. We invest extra in it, but it's also a matter of normalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u338	There was also a question about the second police academy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u339	Oh, yes, it's a good thing you indicated that. We can see, of course, that the training at the police academy has changed, that it has been shortened. All sails are added to train people. I think that's necessary. Additional specialties are also needed. The influx is of course also important. A second police academy could help. It may be possible to lay down specializations, and this can be implemented in another part of the country. This will enable new influxes to be collected and policemen to be prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u340	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u341	Thank you. Let's get back to our policemen. In everyday practice, decisions and assessments of situations must be made quickly, aid must be provided and action must be taken in accordance with all the protocols and guarantees that obviously go with them. You know, it's a bit of a bitch in practice sometimes. To mention one specific point: emergency aid for missing persons in suspicious circumstances. In accordance with criminal law protocols, the police are obliged, for reasons, to go through various links before the victim's cell phone can be located. Especially outside office hours, no matter how quickly people take action and take responsibility for it, sometimes precious time is lost. Should there not be room for a mandate to act in such situations and to justify the conduct of the action afterwards or during the course of the action, I ask the Minister. Mr President, then the prison system. In the promised funds for the whole chain, that comes a bit short. Is there sufficient attention to that? Mr. Chairman. The project De Compagnie is a successful pilot that encourages prisoners to find a job. Volunteers support that. A beautiful, valuable concept, with results. The pilot now gets a follow-up at the prison in Alphen aan den Rijn and De Compagnie in Krimpen is finished, because the building is not suitable enough for it. That seems strange to us, because the pilot was so successful. Can the Minister explain that again? Mr. Chairman. A brief point about the major problems of forensic-medical research and the autopsy. Occasional resources have been made available for next year, but the question is whether this is sufficient to ensure continuity. Is the Minister prepared to see what else is needed? What about the possibility of using, for example, nursing specialists? Mr. Chairman. Then the boas. It is good that the Minister is working on a boa vision and the corresponding powers. Hopefully this will also remove the distinction between the powers of green boas in public and private services. There are also several pilots around the powers of boas. One of them runs in Utrecht with regard to traffic enforcement, to the great satisfaction of the municipality, police and boa-organisation. There is a great desire to extend it and broaden it towards motorized traffic in the city. Good for traffic enforcement, efficiency and effectiveness. I ask the Minister if that space can be provided. Finally, I would like to say a word about the fire department. We were pleased to hear further advice on the legal position of fire volunteers in the light of European regulations. Also from this place respect and appreciation for all employers whose staff can also be employed as a firefighter. Good and good that it is still happening, and important in a society in which we share responsibility and can all contribute to looking after our relatives, to contribute together to a safe society, side by side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u342	Thank you, Mrs Palland. I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u343	"It's quiet out here on the street!" That's what a 13-year-old high school boyfriend of my son said when he was sitting in our kitchen eating a pancake and looking out. "It's different with me." Just yesterday, he heard shots while playing outside. This little boy, with a good brain, a good mind and a lot of discipline, knows how to find his own way. These are the children of the future, I think. But that group should be much and much bigger. Our country has failed and failed, as long as children continue to drop out because they see few opportunities, cannot find an internship and are tempted by criminal money. Nothing is so depressing as to think that criminals see schools, even primary schools, more and more as market outlets and markets to recruit. To solve this problem, much needs to be done, starting in the neighborhood. It's gotta be safe there. The district agent can play an important role there, as can youth workers. But that neighborhood cop, it's been said a lot today, and he doesn't have time for his or her neighborhood anymore. This is the result of years of austerity on the police. The minister now wants more district agents again, but his investment at most leads to half a district agent per neighborhood. Does he think this is gonna make a difference? I'd like a response. GroenLinks believes that all previous cuts on the police should be removed; hence our amendment together with the Labour Party. Look at last weekend, too. We're really asking for the utmost of our agents. That also means we have to give them what they need. In order to prevent young people from falling into the trap of crime, we must also give them the opportunity to get back on the right track in time. That is why, together with my colleague Kröger, I propose that, under strict conditions, young people with a criminal record should give an explanation of behaviour, which they need to get back on the right track. It is also important that we stop yojo policy: then cut back, then invest again. It leads to unrest and energy wasting, I hear from the police. If we really want to make our country safer, we need long-term financial security, not just for the police, but for the whole chain of law. This is also one of the results of the Rosenmöller motion inquiry. Does the Minister share this conclusion? I'd like a response. Too often we tend...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u344	Your last interruption, Mrs. Michon-Derkzen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u345	Oh, my...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u346	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u347	I was addressed by...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u348	Excuse me, you have two more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u349	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u350	Because your colleague... That wasn't an interruption, so we said we didn't count it. We're honest, just and strict here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u351	I was addressed in my first term by Mrs Ellemeet about those vogs. I have been there for a while and now it appears that less than 1% of the applications are actually rejected. That was in a letter from the Secretary of Law. I can come along in your problem, but it seems like that problem doesn't exist. Do you know these numbers, which show that it is very rare for a youngster not to be able to get the job he wants through a rejected vog?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u352	I know the messages from Utrecht, among others. It's a problem there. Young people who have committed a criminal offence then ask for an explanation of their behaviour and it is not regulated. Even though it may be a relatively small group, it is a vulnerable group. The municipality of Utrecht indicates: it would be good if we did something about that. My request to the Minister is to see if we could do this more broadly. Can we investigate which group is specifically involved? We want to give young people a second chance. Mrs Michon has made this very clear in her own speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u353	Can Mrs Ellemeet indicate what is happening in Utrecht compared to the low percentage that I think I am getting from this minister's letter? 'Cause that's not compatible in my mind. What's the deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u354	There, among other things, we watch together with the police how we young people who have fallen on the wrong path... Those kids say, "I made a stupid mistake, but I want to try again. I've seen a nice job, and I'm really excited about it. I want to make a commitment to this." It looks at how these young people can be helped by both civil servants and the police to get back on the right track. Those are the signals from practice. I get it both from the police and from civil servants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u355	I very much wonder if these signals are in line with the reality I read in the Minister's letter. I hope to hear that from the Minister. It can also often be a feeling, the feeling that you cannot get a vog, while the practice may be more generous than that thought. But we're gonna hear that from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u356	That's why I liked talking to a cop who's working on this in practice. So it's not rumors. It is working on this route and it runs against these limits. It indicates that it would be good to get those vulnerable young people, who could otherwise be sucked into the criminal circuit, back on the path. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed and said that too often we tend to define exactly how budget should be used as a policy. But what about the expertise and control of the police themselves? Why don't we give them more room to make their own choices for spending the money? And what about reducing the administrative burden of agents? GroenLinks and the CDA have made an earlier appeal on this subject. We said do something about the administrative burden. I haven't heard about it since, so I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we have to note that organised crime is firmly rooted in our society and that the underworld has more and more tentacles in the upper world. The Minister rightly wants to make the approach of undermining a priority. However, I still have some questions about his approach. I spoke to an agent the other day who sighed that it is still too easy to launder money through nail salons or solar studies, and that there are also car rental companies that only rent cars to criminals. Would it not be wise to regulate licensing for such branches, I ask the Minister. I'd like a response. Municipalities are struggling with their limited powers to tackle major crime. They cannot yet share crucial information with financial partners. Would it not be wise for municipalities to be part of the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism? And shouldn't the Bibob Act be further amended so that tax data and police data can be better used to tackle criminals? I'd like a response. Mr President, finally, another...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u357	There is an interruption by Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u358	I know Mrs Ellemeet as a reasonable person. I am actually a little surprised at her last statement on extending data sharing, precisely because there is still so much going on in this data sharing at the moment. Does Mrs Ellemeet think it would be wise to propose that the risk profiles used by governments, e.g. ethnic profiling in various forms, should not be properly controlled at this stage, in order to make more frequent use of such resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u359	Thank you for this question. It is important to make it clear that, as far as I am concerned, there should never be any abuse of data sharing. For this reason, we were also critical of legislative proposals that simply did not have this in order. We therefore support the request made by the Personal Data Authority to proceed to new legislation only where those matters, which are subject to framework conditions, are entirely in order. So as far as I'm concerned, it's and-and. It must never be at the expense of the legal certainty of people and must never be abused. At the same time, I do not want to look away from the major problems that mayors, among others, encounter, namely that they lack information and that they sometimes have information themselves that they think would be very useful if others did. Because crime is so huge in many of our cities and the problems are so great that we have to face it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u360	We absolutely agree that we have a lot of problems with undermining. But police and justice, the Dutch government: that is the place where things go wrong so often with disastrous consequences. We do not have to start again in every debate about the surcharge scandal, but that is, of course, what most people have in mind. That's where it keeps sanding for me. How can we give these authorities, if it is up to Mrs Ellemeet, more opportunities for data sharing, which is precisely the crucial place in our own system where things go wrong so often?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u361	I don't think we should look away from where things go wrong. So we're gonna have to look very critically at how the government does it. That is why such an institute as the Dutch Data Protection Authority is so important. I also share the proposal to strengthen its financing. So, yeah, that's gotta be better. But we must also do something about undermining and we must also do something about those criminals who now have their tentacles all over society. And that too, of course, is a direct threat to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u362	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u363	Finally, there are a number of other issues which are very much on my mind. First of all, the many sex cases that remain on the shelf for too long. We see that the number of cases arrested within six months has fallen to 52%. My colleague Buitenweg has previously drawn attention to this and has also managed to free up money for it. I'm taking over this stick of hers with conviction. I ask the Minister what he's going to do to deal with this problem. Mr. Chairman. Then the NCTV. Earlier, I expressed my concerns about the lack of supervision. Those concerns are shared by the CTIVD. Why not settle this right now, I ask the Minister. And what about the distribution of resources between terrorism and the approach of the extreme right? All the way to the end. Today we read in NRC that the prosecutor, who investigated the millions of fraud at Pels Rijcken, was flagged from above when he wanted to scale up the criminal investigation. This raises questions for my group. What does the Minister think of this course of action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u364	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I give the floor to your colleague, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u365	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, for taking so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u366	You're just going over the paperwork?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u367	"Just going through the administration" means spontaneously deleting some of the words in my text. Mr. Chairman. I will begin with the subject of legal protection. In fact, the essential question for me is: who exactly is the rule of law? That question is essential in order to restore the confidence that a firm dent has taken place. Citizens have for too long been given the disadvantage of the doubt. That turned out catastrophic. We will really have to do everything we can to restore that precious trust in our democratic rule of law. The human measure must be returned to administrative law. Of course, a start has been made with, for example, the critical self-examination of the Council of State. But how's that gonna go? Is there going to be such a critical self-examination within other crucial areas of justice? How is critical counter-thinking designed within the government itself and within ministries? Is the Minister for Legal Protection prepared to have an investigation into what is needed in legislation, administration and case law to give citizens the legal protection they deserve? How do we deal with these system errors and ensure that citizens can invoke legal protection under all circumstances? An example of this is the social legal profession. This will finally get the necessary budget in 2022, thanks to the Klever/Ploumen motion. Can the Minister guarantee that this is actually secured in the long term? We understand that young people who are detained and insured for a crime are entitled to a paid lawyer, while young people who have not been detained must arrange their own legal aid. That cannot be the intention, I ask the Minister. Surely legal aid should apply to all those who need it? And what's it gonna take? Then the Personal Data Authority. It still does not receive sufficient funding to carry out its tasks properly, even though it is such a crucial element. That is why I fully support Mr Van Nispen's amendment. Mr. Chairman. Asylum and migration. There are great concerns within my group, which I have heard from several colleagues, about the poor conditions, which are not actually part of the Netherlands, which we now have in the asylum shelter. Refugees, who have had a hellish journey, should not sleep on chairs in a decent country. For children and vulnerable groups, such as for lhbti, the current care system is already problematic. We really do not understand how this could have happened. GroenLinks expects the cabinet to anticipate developments, and then aligns the capacity of our reception. Unfortunately, this Secretary of State fails to do so over and over again. Since her ministry is full of intelligent people, at least that is what we are assuming remains the impression that this is a conscious political choice. For next year, the Secretary of State is once again assuming very optimistic forecasts. As a result, the budget for the COA is reduced by 128 million. What is that based on, and isn't the Secretary of State just reorganising her own crisis? I would also very much like to see a broader assessment of how the migration chain is now based on forecasts and the budgetary fluctuations associated with them. We are tabling an amendment to fix the budget for the COA. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two points, in much shorter time than expected. Firstly, humanitarian organisations are at risk of being tried as human smugglers. This is unacceptable and runs counter to European legislation. Can the Secretary of State assure me that the Netherlands is committed to the position of humanitarian organisations in Europe, and that when they prosecute them, we strongly appeal to Member States to do so? Saving human lives can and must never be punishable. I have put questions to the House about the position of IHRs in the asylum chain, in particular about the case of a young Georgian woman who is threatened with expulsion. My question is why, when particular attention is asked for the position of IBTs in safe countries, this does not result in an exception and therefore in an individual assessment. That would be fair to those people. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u368	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u369	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, of course, my heartfelt congratulations to colleagues Valstar and Podt. Mrs. Podt is gone for a while, but I'm waving at her. There. Done. I am also very pleased to be with you in the Committee on Justice and Security. Mr. Chairman. "If justice doesn't matter, kingdoms are nothing but robbers." Church Father Augustine wrote that sixteen centuries ago, in a very uncertain time. Throughout all these centuries, these words have remained of great value. I actually think they stand for the pursuit of justice and the bringing of justice as a very essential task for the government, a core task. So it is perfectly understandable that there are 30 speakers today, because of course everyone wants that to be right. And it's not on its own. Even though our rule of law is not even mentioned in the Constitution, it is our foundation. That is why this is such an important debate and I am very pleased to be able to speak with you on behalf of the Christian Union about our rule of law, our law. For that is the essence of our living together, a foundation. We all experience how this is under tension, when we look at the chaos and violence in the streets of Rotterdam and when we hear the stories of ambulance workers who do not know themselves safely and of police officers who are seriously threatened. That's why I'm starting today to express my deep disgust at that behavior. It's unjustified violent behavior. Don't do this. My deepest condolences to all those people in uniform who go through that storm over and over again. Thank you. Tensions in our society are there, but they are never a free pass for violence, for putting others at risk. That is precisely why I really appreciate all the hard workers in the front line of our rule of law. As far as I am concerned, that is at the heart of this justice budget. How do we ensure a functioning rule of law where justice prevails, where injustice does not go unseen or unpunished, and where we keep it together in peace, even if we disagree? The challenges are great, with a booming undermining by serious drug crime, with a surcharge affair, where thousands of people found no right, and with a hardening and polarisation in a society in which the ghost of anti-Semitism is increasingly taking off from the dark pits. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of which, on the initiative of Mr Segers and Mr Yeşilgöz, the fight against anti-Semitism has been strengthened with the National Coordinator Anti-Semitism. It has only just begun and funding is under pressure for the follow-up. That is why I ask the Minister, together with Mr Ellian, to tackle both funding for the coming year and structural funding, so that the National Coordinator has the power to set up projects and can conduct and continue to fight anti-Semitism on an autonomous, full-time and structural basis. Mr. Chairman. This budget rightly pays extra attention to investing in tackling undermining. I would like to congratulate the Minister on a broad approach and a structural approach, because this serious drug crime is nothing to be afraid of. This is a long-term struggle. It is then important that the commitment is broad, that it starts with combating drug standardisation and starts with prevention in the neighbourhood. It is precisely for this reason that the Christian Union thinks it is so good that there is real investment in more agents in that district, that there is investment in strengthening detection and prosecution and that this is structural. But that's got to happen all over the chain. I ask the Minister to confirm that that really is the whole chain, including justice. The fight against serious drug crime also calls for a resilient society. Think of the transport sector, for example. Earlier we asked the Minister for a North Sea port pact. How's that going? Recent reports show that rail freight is also targeted. The Zhengzhou Express from China is already notorious. How is the Minister keen on the risks and can he also further examine freight transport, at least the most risky? Mr. Chairman. Criminal organizations always have multiple earning models. Unfortunately, we do not lose sight of the fact that trafficking in human beings and exploitation are part of this. I very much appreciate the commitment made through the Together against Trafficking in Human Beings programme, but given the figures, this remains structurally necessary, because under-age victims of sexual exploitation are still poorly represented, those who abuse them are not sufficiently detected and there are still far too many poignant situations among migrant workers. Prioritisation of attention to trafficking in human beings remains essential. I call on the rulers to ensure that trafficking in human beings remains a priority in the new Security Agenda that is being drawn up. With regard to these customers, I am pleased that work can be done on decoy profiles and that the instrument seems to stand. What can the Secretary of State do to further encourage its broad commitment? My colleague, Mr Ceder, has tabled a motion to the budget for Kingdom relations on how to deal with trafficking in human beings in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. In the meantime, this motion has been slightly modified and we would like to receive an appreciation from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. A lot has already been said about the police by the colleagues before me. Besides, I was talking about district agents myself, but I haven't talked about one group. That's about the police volunteers. They do a lot of good work. They should account for 10% of the total occupational operational strength. With the money from the coalition agreement, a first good step has already been taken to train volunteers better and wider, for example for cyber expertise. But in terms of numbers, it falls silent. The influx appears to be falling completely silent. That is why I would like to say to the Minister: please, pick this up. If you sign up now, you can start an education in 2023. It's too late. That's a missed opportunity, just when we need those policemen so badly in the years to come. I ask the Minister to come up with a targeted training programme for police volunteers together with the ROCs. Mr. Chairman. I'm here to gamble. You will hear me about this more often, because I am really worried about this, especially about the flood of gambling advertisements that has been made possible since online gambling. Children already know King Toto's wisdoms. The addiction care, the Consumers' Union, former addicts; they are actually all pulling the emergency brake and saying: stop this, don't do this! Because with that legalization, the red carpet rolled out for advertising by the gambling industry, online or on TV and radio, and later on also looks like the shirts of footballers. I did not agree with that law, which you have always understood, but the law on channeling would see, not on attracting new players and certainly not on attracting vulnerable groups. The Chamber therefore broadly adopted a motion to ban online gambling advertisements reaching children. I ask the Minister to put that ban into effect, because an average view of YouTube or other channel on which children like to watch videos suggests that the ban does not really work yet, to put it mildly. I would also ask the Minister to reflect on whether this is and was the intention, for example all the advertising that is now raging around football matches. Do we want this? Is this wise or will we take a step further to at least protect the vulnerable? Suppose the minister needs a hand with that, I have two; I'm happy to do it. Thank you, Mr President. So far. In a moment, my colleague, Mr Ceder, will continue the speech on behalf of the Christian Union, but let me say this: at a time when there is pressure on how we Members of Parliament can speak freely and how we uphold democracy, I find it very regrettable that some Members who use big words are not here. At the same time, I am very committed to having an exchange of views with Mr Markuszower, for example, but please let us stop undermining our democracy. 'Cause that's the highest good. That is what our rule of law is built on. That is precisely why I think this budget is essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u370	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to your colleague, Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I was hungry, you fed me. When I was thirsty, you gave me a drink. When I was a stranger, you took me in. When I didn't have any clothes, you gave me clothes. Then they will answer him, Lord, but when were you hungry and when did we feed you? When were you thirsty and when did we give you to drink? When were you a stranger and did we take you in? When you did those things for one of my least important brothers, you did them for me. Mr. Chairman. From these timeless words from the Gospel according to Matthew, the attitude through which we can have a lot of use in the asylum debate with all the complexity and complexity. An attitude that ensures that we resist the daily human temptation to talk about people as if they were dehumanized masses to whom the concept of "human dignity" does not apply. An attitude that watches over the instrumentalisation of people for political purposes, whether it be local crisis relief, the still unresolved situation on the Greek islands where I was last summer and where it sounds disappointment about the Dutch commitment to taking over the burden, or when it comes to the deployment of people at the border of Poland and Belarus. This also calls for an attitude that never forgets, especially in our parliamentary democracy, that the tongue is a small body. But think about how a small flame can cause a forest fire. Having said this, asylum, migration and this debate are mainly about what kind of society we want to have together. For the Christian Union, it looks like this. We take responsibility for those who flee from the consequences of conflict, war and persecution. People who come from safe countries and abuse the procedure, and especially those who cause nuisance, must return quickly. To make this work, we are committed to improving the implementation of standard times, lead times, waiting times and substantive decision-making with sufficient funding, expertise and space to deviate in distressing cases. That is why I should first like to refer to last week's Council of State's reflection report. As a result of the premium affair, the Council acknowledged that it had been swimming in a legal trap in the handling of cases. In this context, the question of whether decisions were reasonable for those involved has disappeared into the background. In addition to the supplement cases, the report also mentions foreign affairs, but these were outside the scope of the investigation. The Council of State's own finding makes it clear that the Council of State's investigation also covers the field of foreign law. Does the Secretary of State agree with me and is she prepared to submit the request to the Council of State? I'm considering a motion depending on the Secretary of State's response. Mr. Chairman. Then the report Unheard injustice in the foreign law of several months ago. That was the reason for the Chamber to hold a hearing which showed from various parties that there were major concerns about substantive decision-making and lack of effectiveness. What lessons did the Secretary of State draw from the report? When will she respond to this report? The report advocates an effective means, as we have also read in the Bosman Committee's report, that hardness clauses are important in implementing organisations. Make no mistake, the IND is also an execution organisation. In the developments in the Chamber we see that there is an increasing awareness of this as well. According to a number of parties, the changes to discretionary power in 2019 should lead to improvements. Individual cases would no longer control the TV and also the Chamber. And MPs like Mr Van Dijk would no longer make speeches, as he has just given them. Is it true that the number of consents granted to the IND has fallen since discretion? Can you give exact comparative figures? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the unrest has not diminished and that the intended objective has not been achieved, also in the light of the changes in the implementation organisation? On the day when Secretary of State Wiersma announces that a misfilled form will no longer necessarily lead to punishment for a benefit, it will come back to the debate from time to time, including a case on which a miscompleted form is based. I hope that we are not again writing the script of an affair of our own and that we can also apply here the lessons that we learn in other implementation organisations. Mr. Chairman. The Van Zwol Committee has made a number of recommendations. I would like these to be followed up and the inspection to look at the follow-up and monitor this as a specific task. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Is she going to set this command? I think we can all benefit from that. This will help the policy. Then it can no longer happen that, despite the reception crisis in recent months, a budget is being delivered with a cut in the COA of 128 million. There are also cuts at the IND. How is this possible? Do you agree with me that this austerity will probably not bring peace back, because it will create a new situation. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's views on this. Mr President, two brief points. I want to break a lance for the situation around 1Fers. Let me be clear: anyone who is a war criminal must leave and has no right to remain here. However, once such a label has been imposed, if there is not enough substantial evidence, it also creates scenes that do not fit into our rule of law. Does the Secretary of State recognise these concerns in a number of very specific cases? Is it prepared to make official messages more transparent? Can we ourselves prosecute people in cases where this does not seem fair in the country of origin? Finally. Last week's WODC report on the safety of converts, religious leavers and lhbt'ers in azc's has come out. The WODC notes too much difference between locations and advocates national frameworks and minimum standards. How does the Secretary of State intend to respond to this? On this point, too, we are considering a motion. So far and thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u372	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u373	Thank you, Madam President. It's really on the front page of the Department of Justice and Security website. I quote: "The Ministry of Justice and Security ensures the rule of law in the Netherlands, so that people can live together in freedom, regardless of their lifestyle or views." Those are nice words, but talk doesn't fill holes. That's what it turns out to be. It is a crystal-hard reversal of reality. The rule of law in the Netherlands is non-existent. We don't live in freedom, and we certainly don't live together. People with lifestyles or views that deviate from the regime's unilaterally imposed views should no longer be allowed to participate. Those people are condemned, excluded from social life. And what kind of rule of law is this outgoing minister talking about? In a state governed by the rule of law, the law should have the highest authority, and should the government, after all, have to abide by the law? But in the country of this outgoing cabinet, the right has been subordinated to the tyrannical drives of the supreme cartel to which these rulers belong. In the WNL programme on Sunday about the corona policy, the outgoing Minister for Health has, literally, given an exact quote: 'This leads to great injustice, but I think it is necessary'. It would be a good thing if directors no longer had to respect the law if they felt it was necessary. How can it be made clear that there is deliberately and knowingly unlawful action because the cabinet considers it necessary? Today's rulers are apparently not even interested in whether their policies are legitimate. The question they keep asking themselves is, are we gonna get away with it? Why should we trust this outgoing cabinet at all when it comes to something as fundamental as the rule of law? In fact, the cabinet has resigned, because research has shown that the cabinet has violated the fundamental principles of the rule of law. Those same people, who are, therefore, demonstrably lying and cheating, who cannot be trusted at all, are now pursuing policies to supposedly protect our rule of law. It's really unprecedented. Mr. Chairman. The government interferes with everything and everyone. The government has penetrated every fibre of our society. Our fundamental rights and freedoms are being taken away from us under false pretences, that is, unlawfully. The integrity of our bodies is no longer protected. The sheepish part of the population, fortunately, which is getting smaller and smaller, is systematically indoctrinated and manipulated with fear propaganda, so that they remain submissive and above all remain obedient. Anyone who dares to express fundamental criticism of the policy is opposed as much as possible or even silenced. Responsible doctors, scientists and many other experts who, from their expertise, warn about the dangers of the policy pursued, are easily dismissed or censored as quacks. Citizens who want to express peacefully in a collective way their discontent by taking part in a demonstration against government policy run a significant risk of being hospitalized, because opposition demonstrations are being knocked down by an aggressive riot police acting on behalf of the competent authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u374	I would like to put a question to Mr Van Meijeren. Mr Van Meijeren, do you condemn the violence against the police and the aid workers last Friday in Rotterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u375	We always speak out against any form of violence. I've said that a lot. The border lies ahead of us in the event of violence. We call on everyone to peacefully oppose this tyrannical regime as strongly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u376	I am asking because it is not exactly the impression you have given and which has aroused your party. I'll mention a few quotes. Your group chairman said on 18 November: 'We do not know exactly how we can really hurt these people'. On 19 November: "The Resistance is far too weak everywhere." Once again, you say the word 'tiranny', which, of course, does not fit in with parliamentary democracy, where you are simply coming here to debate our invitation. So how come you're giving this answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u377	The quotes quoted by the lady do not in any way call for violence or for any form of unjustified opposition. The resistance can indeed be much stronger. We also call for this, for example through massive civil disobedience. I feel large-scale strikes coming as soon as that corona pass becomes mandatory at work. There are many ways of resistance, but of course always nonviolent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u378	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u379	I would add a small addition to that. Of course, however much we reject all forms of violence, it does not come as a surprise. If citizens are unlawfully affected in their freedoms, it is natural that this leads to a form of resistance that we reject, but at the same time reveals how much frustration and grief there is among people who lose their jobs, lose their whole lives and lose their freedoms and fundamental rights. It is therefore very regrettable that it is happening, but it is in line with expectations that a government is going to oppress its population in a massive way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u380	That addition, of course, is exactly what I'm calling for. The "but" that is needed when you first say that it can be done without violence. Mr Van Meijeren was not in the Chamber when I spoke, but this is what I mean by the statement: this is not normal. Not only does my group think so, but the vast majority of this society, which hears this kind of text from a parliamentarians, think so. Those people are startled and intimidated by it. It is absolutely unnecessary to abandon policemen and their families in this way, what you and your party do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u381	I can continue to speak out against violence. I'll keep doing that over and over again. What I have indicated is that it is a logical consequence of the policy being pursued. Martin Luther King once said: riots are the language of people who are not heard. After the large-scale riots and looting around all Black Lives Matter demonstrations, in which entire cities were set on fire and massive looting took place, I also heard very little indignation from the Chamber. An article even appeared on NOS...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u382	This is, by the way, the transition to your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u383	... entitled: Protests in the US are a natural reaction of people who see no way out. I therefore continue to speak out against any form of violence, but at the same time I believe that the policy that is being pursued, however regrettable I think it is, will lead to, I fear, much more violence than we saw last weekend; significantly more violence. Mr. Chairman. Mouthy citizens climb into the pen and write off their grief and frustrations by e-mailing people's representatives or directors, for example. They're being put away unsubstantiated as benefactors. The Dutch who are unlawfully affected by their fundamental freedoms and wish to exercise their rights do not have the opportunity to go to an independent court. Only government-minded judges appointed by the government itself can make an assessment in that country as to whether the government actually complies with the law. Turns out what? Those judges, who have been appointed by the government, are in the most impossible turns to come to the conclusion that the government is keeping to the law: we of the toilet duck advise toilet duck. Speaking of toilet duck, why does the Minister insist that the investigation into ritual child abuse, which is also accused of high-ranking officials of the Ministry of Justice, be carried out at all costs under his total control? We debated this a few weeks ago. At that time, the Minister lied that the investigation is independent of justice, which is factually incorrect. He also lied about keeping his distance from it, which is factually incorrect. However, a number of interesting developments have occurred since then. One example is the Spotlight working group that stands up for the interests of victims of ritual abuse, who sent a letter of fire. A number of Christian leaders have also expressed their support for my motion in an open letter. However, the Minister is not moving. I have held my motion to allow that investigation to take place outside the Court of Justice at the request of a number of people, so that everyone can carefully involve these recent developments in all considerations, but I am also curious about the Minister's response to this. In the meantime, is he prepared to say that he meets the wishes of the victims? Or is that really too much to ask and should this research be carried out under his total control at all costs? That's something no one understands. Mr. Chairman. No matter how you describe the current state of our country, the term "legal state" unfortunately no longer covers the load. That would still be if those who take away our fundamental rights and freedoms were actually assuming that all this was in the interests of public health, and if they themselves actually believed that we were dealing with a dangerous virus. But they don't even believe it. When the minister just entered the room, he spent two minutes showing off his new mouth cap and looking for all the cameras. When he is back behind the scenes again with his colleagues, with other MPs or with his civil servants, it is again old-boy bread and suddenly that virus doesn't exist anymore. It is not a question of violating, inter alia by this outgoing minister, the corona measures which he then pays or does not pay a fine for. That's not the point. It is something much more fundamental, namely that the people concerned are obviously aware that the measures are not really necessary to protect our public health and that they themselves do not believe in the lies that are being imposed on us. Mr. Chairman. This means, therefore, that deliberately, deliberately, fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are being taken away, under false pretences. That is precisely why this policy, which is supported and welcomed by some of the policy makers, both from the cabinet and from MPs, is not simply incompetent, but criminal. It's not about the slightest crime. We are talking not only about criminal offences, but also about crimes such as unlawful deprivation of liberty, treason, death by guilt and, at worst, even mass murder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u384	I'm gonna interrupt you anyway. These are great words, which are addressed not only to the outgoing cabinet, but also to my colleagues. I will not allow you to call my colleagues criminal and use even bigger words. So I really want to ask you to take that into account and not to use that kind of big words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u385	On a point of order, Mr President. I notice something in this debate, in my own contribution and now in the contribution of the forum for democracy. The chairman may have read a column in De Telegraaf or something. Maybe that's how she feels about the fact that she's not so strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u386	This is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u387	The point of order is that we must be able to have discussions in this Chamber. Everyone must be able to express their opinion. Other MPs have the right to act against such an opinion or position. It's called a debate. In this debate, I note the President's intention to conduct the debate. That cannot be the intention of a parliament. I ask the President to stop doing that. If people want to distance themselves from the words of the Forum for Democracy, they can do so here. If they did not agree with my contribution in the first term, they could go into that. But the President cannot conduct the debate. If the President continues to do so, I think we should stop the debate and talk about the role of the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u388	Let me respond to that for a moment. Then I will also give my colleagues the opportunity to respond. Freedom of speech is a great asset. That's not the point. When words are used in this House of Democracy saying that my colleagues are criminals, and words, as you yourself have used them, saying that they have to answer, I do indeed draw a line there. I regret that, but I also have the role here to protect the dignity of this House of Representatives. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u389	On that point of order: if something is important in our democracy, it is that we have an exchange of views and that we can vote on legislative proposals, which also show differences. Once that has happened in our democracy, we also have the respect for each other when a majority makes a different assessment. On the other hand, I am frustrated because the majority see things differently from what I see. That's life, that's democracy. But when we start calling each other a criminal and evoke all kinds of tension, as if this democracy is not working, then the axe is at the root of our living together. The only thing left to us in the end is a civil war about how you deal with each other, because you don't pronounce the differences anymore. I would like to ask Mr Van Meijeren from the bottom of my heart: stop this. Darkness does not drive you out with darkness, but with light. So if you disagree with something, then come up with arguments, then we are going to have the debate. But quit making out to others as if they were criminals and as if criminal law should be at issue here. Mr. Chairman. Congratulations on your support. To my fellow Members the call: let us go to the substance, because that is how our democracy remains strong, and that is how we are a peaceful country in which we stand together, even if we disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u390	I will look at the colleague and give you the floor again. Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u391	I really have very little to add to that. But, above all, we support your role as President. Let us not start undermining the role of the President, because then it will be a real problem. No debate is being smothered here. There is an incredible amount to be said. A lot has also been said. Freedom of expression is incredibly spacious, but not entirely limitless, not even in this Chamber. In my view, the limits have been clearly drawn by the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u392	I would like to express my support for your role as President. There is always a grey area and you can have endless discussions about whether or not something can or can't. I do not think we should spend our time on this. We have that referee. Thank you for doing it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u393	I agree with what previous colleagues have said. This is the Chamber of Democracy. The President is talking about this and it does not matter to put the President in a position in this way as if freedom of expression is the issue here. That's not the point. That can be said very clearly. Then we can indeed go back to the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u394	Thank you. We're going back to the content. I give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u395	I would like to respond to everything that has been said, both by you and by a number of colleagues. I myself believe that freedom of expression is being too restricted here, because I am quietly expressing my concerns about policy here. I firmly believe that serious crimes are being committed. It would please you if you heard something that you were genuinely interested in walking to the interrupting microphone and saying, Mr. Van Meijeren, please explain. What crimes and where did you come up with that? None of that's gonna happen. No, this view that crimes are committed must obviously be added to the list of prohibited opinions. And it is not surprising at all that there is a case for criminal investigation into, among other things, directors. We have also seen in the whole of the surcharge scandal that the fundamental principles of the rule of law have been violated and that has also been reported by the injured. And yes, there has also been illegal legislation. That was also the case of unlawful case-law. Again, the fact that a majority here decides and decides to oppress an entire population does not make it legitimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u396	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u397	Mr. Chairman. I think we really should draw a line here. I support you in that. I find: you can really be critical of all the measures in a corona debate, but I also draw the line when it is said that these are traitors, that your colleagues or cabinet members are prior to that and that you also say that there have been mass murders. I think that's really big words. This is a Justice and Security budget. This isn't a corona debate. I think we should stick to the order of this debate. Now let's not make threats to each other. Mr Van Meijeren may be very critical of me. He can back everything up, but he can't make co-workers for traitors or mass murderers. I can tell from him that he also enjoys this game a bit, so it was hard for me to participate in it. I really think we should stop here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u398	Finally, Mr Sneller, and we shall now proceed to the substantive debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u399	Happy birthday. If Mr Van Meijeren is serious, then he is going to press charges and not put it in the room, because he knows he is not going to sit on the judge's seat. After all, that is what he always complains about: politicians who sit on the judge's seat, or vice versa.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u400	Of course. That is exactly what we are calling for. We do not call for lynching or other undemocratic matters. We call for the suspects of these crimes to be tracked down, arrested, brought to justice and, if I may say so, long prison sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u401	I am going to ask you, in the context of the order of the debate, to proceed with your speech now, but no further than where I have just drawn the line. I'll give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u402	One more point, because I had not yet responded to Mr Azarkan. I don't just throw words like "land treason"...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u403	No, you too, Mr. Azarkan: let's really stop this now. Because then Mr Van Meijeren will also respond to that. Mr Van Meijeren, you will finish your sentence and I will give Mr Azarkan the floor. After that, I really want to ask you to move on. Very briefly, Mr. Van Meijeren, and then Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u404	If a Member of Parliament is convinced that such serious crimes are being committed here, such as land supply, which is punishable by Article 97a of the Criminal Code, then it is not only my right, but also my duty to express my concerns here. I wouldn't be worth a slap in the face if I didn't do that and if I suggested at all that the perpetrators would get away with it unpunished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u405	Finally, Mr Azarkan. And then we're really moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u406	Mr Van Meijeren knows very well what the trias politician is. He speaks of suspects here, but it is not up to Mr Van Meijeren, to a Member of Parliament, to determine who is a suspect. That's what the independent D.A.'s office is for. This means that Mr Van Meijeren must find a way through the procedure to see how a committee can bring cabinet members to justice in this case. But that's what the DA's office is all about in the end. I think it's really hard for him to talk about suspects. How do you determine that people are suspects? You can't be serious about that, can you, Mr. Van Meijeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u407	Well, unlike Mr. Azarkan's assumption, it's not at all the Public Prosecutor's Office that decides whether to prosecute criminal offences. On the basis of the law on ministerial responsibility, that judgment is up to the Chamber. We, as MPs, decide whether or not to commit criminal duties. I would like to make one more point as far as the advance on the facts is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u408	No, no, no. We have talked enough about this subject. I really want to ask you to continue your speech, but not beyond the limit I have just indicated. I call Mr Van Meijeren. So we're not going to do it anymore, because we're paying a lot of attention to it now. Let us go back to the content of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u409	I am very interested in Mr Omtzigt's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u410	But I would ask Mr Omtzigt to have Mr Van Meijeren finish his speech first. I'll see if there's another point and I'll give you the floor. Now, I want you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u411	Mr. Chairman. One small remark in between. As a result of the riots in Rotterdam, I hear many MPs saying that the perpetrators must be arrested and brought to justice. That has nothing to do with the trias politician. You see what is happening, you notice something and you argue for a legal solution as it goes under the rule of law, namely that the perpetrators are brought to justice. That's not so weird at all. In fact, it is also absurd for such a panicky reaction to be made, because it should be obvious that the perpetrators of crime should be brought to justice. In the end, it is up to the judge to judge whether crime has been committed, who is responsible for it and what punishment they should be punished for it. Again, I am very concerned that this has been added to the list of forbidden opinions today. But it fits a bit in a pattern that we have seen over the past few weeks, namely the panic that is being tried to silence us both in this Chamber and outside this Chamber. There is even open discussion of the possibility of banning the Forum for Democracy as a political party. That's telling. The truth is sometimes harsh and sometimes even so uncomfortable and confronting that you don't want to hear her at all. But the more resistance a truth evokes, the more truth must be spoken and heard. The call to ban political parties using only democratic means to pursue their goals is antidemocratic. In democracies, opposition parties are not banned because they have different views than the promoted state ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u412	I see you standing at the interrupting microphone, but I just indicated that I want Mr Van Meijeren to finish his speech first. Then I will give Mr Omtzigt and you, Mrs Kathmann.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u413	Mr. Chairman. Yeah, I'm going to a roundup. This kind of panicky reactions and attempts to hit us just make us stronger. We will never yield to tyrants. We'll never shut up. We will always name the truth, no matter how uncomfortable it may be. A political party may be banned, but a movement and its ideas are not. Our movement is unstoppable; the truth will prevail. But as much as I believe that we are going to win and that our children will grow up in a free country without masks, distance rules and totalitarian control mechanisms, we cannot sit back. Only together can we control the government. In order to speed up this process, I would now like to address myself, at the end of this speech, to all the Dutch. Emphasis on "all" Dutch people: young people and elderly people, men and women, Jews, Christians and Muslims, homosexuals and heterosexuals, vaccinees and unvaccinated people, people with light skin and people with dark skin, people who are practically educated and people who are theoretically trained; you name it all. Álle Nederlanders. We are all Dutch, sometimes in conflict with each other, but at the core we are not divided among ourselves. In order to win this battle, we must not allow ourselves to be guided by differences that are magnified by our opponents. Because as much as the regime wants it, as long as we are divided, they will rule. That is why we must join forces and make a fist against the evil that does this to us. Because there are more of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u414	Thank you. There are two more interruptions. First of all, Mr Omtzigt and then Mrs Kathmann. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u415	This was a pretty big low. But I have a question. If you're accusing someone of treason, Article 97 of the Code of Criminal Law, then someone is connected to a foreign power to commit crimes against the State. So the question to Mr Van Meijeren is what strange power which of these three has come into contact with in order to commit what crimes against the Dutch State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u416	Mr Omtzigt did not listen very carefully. I didn't mention Article 97 of the Criminal Code. That article speaks of a strange power. I have repeatedly referred to Article 97a of the Code of Criminal Law. It is not about a foreign power but about a foreign person or body. I am thinking, among other things, of the close links this cabinet has with the World Economic Forum, which openly advocates the abuse of the corona crisis, or rather the coronas scandal, in order to roll out a totalitarian control state.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u417	So you accuse the three rulers there that they have not only spoken to someone, but that they also want to roll out a total control state here on behalf of the people of the WEF in order to oppress the Dutch. That's the accusation you're making here with these people. Specifically, which ministers are you talking to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u418	I didn't mention that "on behalf of." There is already talk of treason if, for example, there is involvement in providing support for the preparation, promotion or triggering of such a revolution. In addition, I have personally said that there are crimes committed and that it is ultimately up to the court to judge what crimes have been committed, who committed them and what penalties should be imposed. Of course, I do not want to anticipate the outcome of legal proceedings. Of course, we need to know our role. I await the results of the legal procedures that will follow with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u419	Look, it's two and one. It is interesting that Forum at least recognises the judges in the Netherlands. That's a very small bit of profit, but well, that's very marginal with what we hear here. A concrete accusation is being made here to box K. There are three people there right now and the crime is treason. That's different than parking wrong, let's just say. It used to have the death penalty on it, and it's about the last time the death penalty went off. What we say here is not small.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u420	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u421	Then I just want to know who's accusing you here, because it's not just something we're throwing into the arena here. By "you," I mean Mr Van Meijeren, not the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u422	Oh, thank God. Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u423	Treason is indeed a very serious crime. There's a life sentence on it. I have expressly said that it is ultimately up to the judge to determine who has committed crimes, what crimes they are and what penalties should be imposed. A first point of departure for a lot of information can be the parliamentary survey that has already been announced. Of course, a preliminary criminal investigation requires the necessary tools to get all the facts and figures out of hand. We have seen many times that at one time there were notes or advices that suddenly the directors in question had no active memories anymore. But in any case, people in the Netherlands can also be convicted of criminal offences that they may no longer have any active memories of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u424	A long answer is often a sign in this Chamber that someone is running away from the original question, and that is completely happening here. The question was very simple. There has been an accusation of a very specific crime and of very specific individuals. The crime of which the accusation is made is not exactly trivial. The only minister ever convicted of a criminal offence in this country has been convicted of letting go of a dog with foot-and-mouth disease. You can't, because that's dangerous. But we've never gone beyond that. Here we continue a hundred times. You can't just do that. You can't just say something about someone and, if I'm asking who it is and what's about, say: that needs to be investigated. I'm really asking for two and one: whether you say "that person did and that has consequences" or you withdraw it. This doesn't just leave you hanging in the air. And you don't have to think that I'm the greatest friend in this cabinet. In the meantime, that's pretty obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u425	If Mr Omtzigt had been somewhat interested in what is going on here during his months of absence, he would also have noticed...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u426	No, no, no, no, no. This is really on the person. We just shouldn't do that. You can say anything on the content, but to be so... I'm just standing up for you, Mr. Ommzigt, so you don't have to do that yourself. I really don't like that. I really don't like doing that. If colleagues are ill, that includes a lot of respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u427	But I am referring to an event that took place during Mr Omtzigt's illness. I then had a very clear debate, including with the Prime Minister, in which I confronted him with the fact that he corresponds to Mr Klaus Schwab, a person established abroad, about his book entitled The Great Reset, in which Klaus Schwab advocates replacing national democracies with a global technocracy. Here it is pretended that everything is about public health: oh yes, we need QR codes, everything for public health. But these kind of shady motives are not shared with the Chamber or even lied about. If this is not discussed openly, these are strong indications that this terrible crime of treason is being committed. Of course, extensive research must be carried out, the bottom line must be established and the perpetrators punished, if I am to be punished with custodial sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u428	Yes, Mr. Overzigt. After that, can we finish the subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u429	I'm sure you can. I feel like it's not gonna be completed today, but for a while. I take it from the answer to that, point one, there is towards these three ministers, or two ministers and a secretary of state, after seven questions, I'm going to blame them for everything, during my speech, so don't look too happy, not a single splash, not a hint or even a note that might indicate treason, while they've just been accused of something for which you can go to prison for life. Two is that the Prime Minister is accused of treason, on the basis of very interesting question in itself. I really saw it when I was at home. I have seen too many debates, including those about me for hours. That was another thing. That was indeed a note he had written, and you are now going to abstract it as if he were in a great international conspiracy to bring everyone here under some sort of control. Nothing remains of the accusation made by Mr Van Meijeren. I therefore ask him to take back, first of all, accusations against these three people. You can't accuse someone of a serious crime, publicly. Someone can do it because there's immunity here the moment the Chamber meets. Then you can say anything and you can't be punished for it. But decency says that if, after seven times, you can't even bring out a note from Mrs Broekers-Knol in which she said something, you can't accuse her of treason.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u430	Finally, Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u431	I didn't mention any specific names at all. I have talked about a number of policy makers, both members of the Cabinet and members of the Chamber who support this. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna have a word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u432	Mr Van Meijeren has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u433	Mr Omtzigt is obviously not well aware that this outgoing Minister of Justice is responsible for our rule of law. And if there are indications that the rule of law is being violated, it is primarily up to this outgoing minister to ring the bell and to take measures to protect our rule of law. So I am not sitting here in an agricultural debate or elsewhere, I am addressing the outgoing Minister of Justice on our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u434	Thank you. That's what I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u435	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u436	Very briefly, then, Mr. Overzigt. I would also like to ask you to make a very brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u437	After eight questions, Mr Van Meijeren turned 180 degrees towards Minister Grapperhaus. He first accused him of treason, and now he's asking him to maintain. I find it extraordinary that he has been able to make this turn with extraordinary flexibility and congratulate him on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u438	This brings us to the end of your contribution, Mr. Van Meijeren. I will suspend the sitting for five minutes and then we will continue with Mrs Koekkoek van Volt. We'll continue until about seven hours, five past seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u439	I give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u440	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's move on to the real debate. Mr. Chairman. The rule of law. A concept that I have heard a lot and used a lot since my appointment as a Member of Parliament, but which is difficult to define. That is why we are thinking of very different things when it comes to the word "right state." We are thinking of the separation of powers and of our Constitution, but also of human rights such as freedom of expression and the right to a fair trial. All right associations, because they are part of the fundamental idea of the rule of law. That also makes it vulnerable. Because if our rule of law is made up of so many parts, then the rule of law can also be broken down in countless ways, seen and unseen, intentionally or as collateral damage. I am concerned about this, because it seems as if we are allowing the rule of law to be phased out. I see it as my job as a Member of Parliament to counter the crumbling of the rule of law. I would like to talk about this today on the basis of the following issues: the resilience of democracy, access to justice, security, migration and guarantees. Mr. Chairman. I was 12 when Pim Fortuyn was murdered, 14 during the murder of Theo van Gogh. Since then, the discussion has been hardened and polarized, inside and outside the Chamber. Now we have arrived at the point where we cannot discuss any subject without pointing a finger at the other. What happened last week was a low point, but certainly not an incident; as it turns out again today. That's why Volt asks all parties to determine the border together. It is clear to us that intimidation and threats are not part of a democratic rule of law, whether they be MPs, ministers, officials, nurses, doctors, scientists or journalists. Mr. Chairman. We often point to Poland, Hungary, Slovenia or Austria. Sometimes that is also right, but we forget that our own street of law is also under pressure. A well-functioning rule of law does two things. It guarantees and guarantees our rights, but it also corrects itself as soon as these rights are compromised by the government. The question we need to ask ourselves today is: does the Netherlands actually have enough guarantees to guarantee people's rights and freedoms? And what if an autocratic regime comes into power? Are these guarantees still sufficient? Volt doesn't think so. Too often we assume that it will work rather than that the guarantees are laid down in our legal texts, while in recent years we have seen that political choices have made a large group of Dutch people less and less well protected against that government. As a result, that group loses confidence in the state. Think of the surcharge scandal, but also the ethnic profile in the police and discrimination in the Tax Administration, which was not recognized by the Council of State. We can't let that happen. I therefore ask the Minister what steps have been taken in this budget to counter ethnic profiling and restore confidence. How do these ministers work with the Ministry of the Interior and the National Coordinator on racism and discrimination to address these problems? Have any concrete plans been drawn up for this since the entry of this coordinator? What does not benefit trust: we are seeing a trend in which departments collect information on citizens on a large scale, without a clear legal basis. For example, the bill for the creation of processing bases for the NCTV is undersized and there is hardly any control over the use of personal data by the government. Society generally understands the temporary surrender of freedoms in times of crisis, such as a high terrorist threat or a pandemic, but this requires confidence in the State and the promise that these measures are proportionate and temporary. But governments often do not give back these additional powers once the threat is over. Instead, those measures become part of the existing toolbox. Let me give you an example. Look at the current bill to extend the law for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship for an unlimited period of time. This law was intended to protect Dutch citizens from returning Syrians. The law was already debatable in its balance between the effectiveness of the law on the one hand and the control it gives the State over Dutch citizens on the other. Now that this threat is very small, there is no reason to extend this law at all. Still, we're trying. In the Netherlands, we break down the rule of law little by little. This is at risk if we convert a measure into a fixed measure. I'd like to ask the Minister to reflect on this. Are we gonna do the right thing? And does the Minister have any concrete indications that restricting freedoms will lead to greater security? My second topic is access to justice. We've all seen how the supplemental affair has unfolded. At the same time, we see in many other implementing organisations that the human dimension is lacking, whether it is legal aid or asylum and migration. Access to justice means that citizens must be able to enforce their rights, but also that this can be done in an easy and accessible way. This means that the system needs to become transparent and citizens have access to the right information. Is the Minister therefore prepared to turn government communication into more clear language? Will the Minister take steps to make implementation organisations more available, for example by subsidising counters in community centers or libraries, as previously proposed by colleagues? Does the Minister see opportunities to support such initiatives from the National Growth Fund? Is the Minister already working with municipalities and implementation organisations to achieve this? Mr. Chairman. The years of austerity in social law also make the law less accessible and it is therefore important to review the legal aid system as soon as possible. Several pilots have already been run for this purpose. What are the Minister's findings on these pilots and what are the experiences of those seeking justice so far? Does the Minister see any possibility of institutionalizing it? Will people using mediation also be able to call for legal aid? How is the Minister going to promote this and raise awareness of the possibility of mediation among people? And have additional funds been made available in this budget for legal aid packages? And what about justice? There are long waiting times. People must wait for a judgment, both in ordinary justice and in the case of asylum and migration. Does the Minister see opportunities to speed this up by digitizing certain parts of processes? And to what extent does the Minister focus on digitisation of justice? Mr. Chairman. Then safety. It is clear that more investment is needed, but every story has two sides. Implementing organisations face major shortages, both financially and in terms of manpower. Additional investments should therefore be divided equally between the case law, the legal profession and the implementing services. The latter also guarantee our safety. The nationalisation of the police and austerity not only neglects to invest in the much-needed innovation of our judicial system, but also lacks the ability of the police to keep us safe and to tackle problems. Take organized crime, for example. The budget states that undermining crime must be combated with an integral package of measures, consisting of prevention, repression and a financial approach. But last Monday, Minister Dekker presented plans for heavier detention, without saying a word about the other two means. In practice, therefore, we do not see an integral package of measures, but organised crime needs such an integrated and cross-border approach. I therefore ask the Minister how he is working with other departments, such as Finance, to develop an integrated approach. Does he, in addition to Italy, gain knowledge in other Member States? Where can we find the reports of those conversations or a feedback from those conversations? Mr. Chairman. Crime doesn't attract much from national borders. Strong Europol, good information sharing and cooperation with, for example, Italy in the area of mafia legislation are essential for this. What is the position of the Minister on the expected European proposals on the exchange of information and the transfer of criminal proceedings between Member States, which are on the agenda for the second quarter of 2022? Is the Netherlands already involved in the consultations? And what is the Dutch commitment? As a follow-up, I would like to point out that strong investigative powers and wide-ranging data exchange also involve strong monitoring. This applies in a broad sense. We still do not take our supervisors seriously enough and you can see that in the resources we make available to the supervisors, such as the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Why is there no structural additional budget for this? Mr. Chairman. Safety is not limited to the physical domain. We are also vulnerable in the digital domain. It's naive to think those two are separate worlds. That is why we need to take serious steps in the area of cybersecurity. I have the following questions. Why is the Cyber Security Council's advice to invest at least 833 million not reflected in the budget? How do cybersecurity investments in this budget relate to the investments needed in the coming years? How is criticism of the current cybersecurity agenda taken into account in its review? Then there is the fourth issue: asylum and migration. You cannot selectively violate the principles of the rule of law by pulling out lego cubes, because that will affect the whole structure. The mechanisms of the rule of law, the rule of law, are for the benefit of all of us. If you let go of those mechanisms, those guarantees to asylum seekers, you will end up putting your own warborgs on the road. After all, you allow a government, whether national or European, to go shopping with the foundations of our rule of law, to apply them selectively and to let go. But before I go on with my speech, I would like to dwell on what just happened in Calais, where at least 20 refugees were killed off the Calais coast. It is terrible that this can still happen in Europe. This underlines once again the importance of progress on migration and the importance of legal migration routes. Mr. Chairman. Pushbacks are the order of the day in Europe. On the Polish border refugees are held in forests and in Curaçao the Dutch marechaussee was involved in pushbacks of Venezuelan refugees. Refugees are increasingly referred to as terrorists and illegal migrants. This is happening now, with the situation in Belarus, but this language was also supported by the Secretary of State with regard to Afghanistan. This is a very worrying development, because it translates directly into policy. Financing a wall of European funds is suddenly being discussed as a real option. Continuing the European Asylum and Migration Pact is all about detention and border surveillance. We deprive people of their right to seek asylum, by expelling them before they can exercise that right or pushing them back to the sea. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what her expectations are of the progress of the asylum and migration pact under the French Presidency. The French Presidency indicated its commitment to return and partnerships with countries of origin. In addition, prevention and tackling the causes of migration is also an important element. Can the Secretary of State explain the cooperation between her department and the Department of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation in this area? Furthermore, the European Commission will present a legislative proposal in the second quarter of 2022 to oblige transport companies to share passenger information. Can the Secretary of State already give an indication of the Dutch commitment to this proposal? And is the Secretary of State already involved in the negotiations on this issue? Mr. Chairman. Then we have a number of questions to the Secretary of State on coordination between departments on specific issues, such as the situation in Poland and Belarus. Yesterday, the European Commission presented an action plan. What's the Secretary of State's position on this? How does the Secretary of State work with the Foreign and Defence Ministers to give follow-up to the situation? Than Afghanistan. This morning we received the answers to the written questions about the interaction between asylum and migration policies and the evacuations from Afghanistan. In that we read that in order to see the correspondence we requested from the previous debate, we depend on the Wob requests made by journalists. The Chamber can only exercise its controlling function if it is informed. I therefore ask the Secretary of State when the correspondence on the evacuation can be sent to the Chamber. Following the Wob request will internal advice and messages from the policy department of the IND, the SUA Executive Board, also be sent along? Furthermore, the Secretary of State states that her statement that the Dutch asylum and migration policy does not interfere with the evacuations is not contrary to the ruling of the former Foreign Minister. In a previous debate, this minister indicated that the Netherlands has a different asylum and migration policy from other countries and has therefore dealt with the crisis and evacuations in Afghanistan differently. Can the Secretary of State elaborate on this? Finally, on this point. The answers on the role of the IND are limited to the period from 15 August. Can the Secretary of State answer the question as to what role the IND played in the evacuations, including in the period before 15 August? Mr. Chairman. In the Foreign Affairs budget debate, my colleague, Mr Dassen, asked questions about providing 50 emergency visas a year for journalists and their families in immediate danger, in the context of the co-chairship of the Netherlands of the Media Freedom Coalition. At that time, the Minister indicated that he was in favour of this, but that he had to have a discussion with the Secretary of State first. My question is: did this conversation take place? Is the Secretary of State also in favour of providing 50 emergency visas, and can the Secretary of State undertake to do so before the end of the year? Mr. Chairman. There is also a lot of profit to be gained at national level. The Dutch asylum system is set as an example worldwide. The rapid asylum procedure is therefore a major advantage, but here too, the large deficits affect the implementing organisations. We are therefore surprised by the fact that this is being reduced again in the current budget and would like more structural funding to be available to reduce the pressure on reception. We are also concerned about the impact of these cuts on the most vulnerable, such as children and lhbti'ers. What steps does the Secretary of State take to protect these people, especially when the system is under pressure? How, for example, is children prevented from moving during the school year? Is it guaranteed that families can sleep separately from the single? How is it that there is still no plan of action to guarantee a minimum safety standard for this group, following the adoption of the Groothuizen motion? And how can it be that the rejection of the asylum request of lhbti's so often differs from, for example, Germany or Belgium? Mr. Chairman. Then the last subject: guaranteeing. A prerequisite for democracy and the confidence of its citizens in it are the free media, which control the government and thus contribute to a healthy public debate. The safety of journalists is essential for this. But last week a Dutch journalist had to leave Greece, because she was threatened by her statements about the pushbacks by the Greek government. What steps has the Minister taken to protect this Dutch journalist abroad? Has the Minister addressed the Greek ambassador or government about the situation and, if not, why not? In order to better protect journalists, the European Commission also recommended closer cooperation with Europol and Eurojust. This is particularly important in the context of events in Greece. However, the Minister does not address this opinion in the letter on this proposal. That is why I am asking if the Minister will be able to elaborate on this. In the same letter we read side by side that two Volt motions were implemented, in which the Chamber asked for an analysis of a system approach to guarantee freedom of the press, and for a letter of inquiry on the Dutch commitment to the action plan for European democracy. The Minister also knows that this EU alert is not a system approach, and that the Dutch commitment to the European Recommendation on the protection of journalists only covers a fraction of the action plan for European democracy. That is why I ask the Minister whether he can undertake to complete this analysis and to share it with the Chamber. Can the Minister also promise that he will send to the Chamber the Dutch commitment to the action plan for European democracy, including the commitment at official level, as set out in the motion? Mr. Chairman. The free press, in addition to the parliament, controls the behaviour of the government as a so-called fourth power, but of course we also have the judiciary. According to Volt, part of the solution to the problems I described today is to form a constitutional court. This protects people from or from legislation that is careless, and provides the opportunity to review legislation against fundamental rights. Is the Minister involved in the implementation of the Kuik and Others motion? and the Simons motion on examining the possibilities of setting up a constitutional court and, if so, how? Can the Minister provide a timetable for the implementation of these motions? Mr President, I shall conclude. As you can see, I have a lot of concerns. There are many things that transcend ministry and need an integrated approach, but also a number of things that we can already work on here, by ensuring that the agreements and the laws and regulations we already have are better supported and implemented, or by making better use of international cooperation. I hope that, in the coming year and beyond, we will continue to make better efforts to improve the rule of law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u441	Thank you, Mrs Koekkoek. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21. Then we'll suspend for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Podt and Mr Valstar, of course, congratulations on the beautiful stories and also rulers, thank you for being here. The budget debate will focus on two key issues for JA21. These are migration and security; that will not surprise you. Unfortunately, they sometimes come in conjunction with the news. As far as we are concerned, migration policy as we are now is untenable. We actually see the negative effects in all facets of our society. Today the news came out that in Ter Apel 600 more asylum seekers are sitting together. So we're back to square one. I remember the Secretary of State said to me in Question Time: Mr Eerdmans, it was resolved on 1 November; then it is all done. Yeah, that's what you said. And what do you say to me today? I'm so excited about that. But that's what we're gonna hear on Thursday, I think. How do you rhyme with that? We see that many problems are unfortunately due to the too generous migration policy that has taken place in the Netherlands over the last few decades, from the housing market to social security and from security to regular conflicts with our standards, values and culture. Thanks to Mr Segers where would we be without the train? We now know that the forming parties, CDA and VVD at least, are pushing for more immigration. More! A surrealist choice for our party. It has been said many times and it is also true that the Rutte Cabinets of Immigration factories have proved to be true. Successive Cabinets recorded immigration record, with an absolute highlight in your cabinet when nearly 270,000 immigrants were admitted into the Netherlands in 2019, including over 100,000 non-Western immigrants. That's a total net increase of over 108,000. In the ten years of Rutte we had an arrival of 800,000 non-Western migrants in total. With the current crisis, which you do not want to mention but which is a crisis, 2021 seems to be the highest asylum influx in the last 25 years after 2015. All in all, the absorption capacity is, I have read back that word in an answer to my questions to the Secretary of State, so that is where it really comes back. The sponge is completely full. We therefore hope that next time the electorate will make a better choice, namely a choice for the right answer. Mr. Chairman. All this is underlined once again in a representative poll of Kantar among the Dutch population, which shows that the population does not want those open borders at all. This study shows that more than two thirds of Dutch people want to limit immigration. And more than 90% believe that there is no room at all for further population growth, which, we know, is mainly caused by immigration. I would therefore like to say that the entire Dutch asylum policy needs a thorough tightening-up. I read in your letter, which came in yesterday on the e-mail, about Danish asylum policy. I did ask you a few questions about that. A motion for a resolution has also been passed in this Chamber in the General Reviews. Thank you for that letter; it was a spicy number of questions that we had asked. It shows a lot of things. I actually want to make the following proposal. Isn't it even possible that I'm gonna sit down with your board of migration policy to explore together what's possible, well, well? Let me put it this way. I'm gonna do that open invitation, because there's a lot of stuff being shut down; doors can't be closed. Some things may not be possible either, I am realistic, but I would like to make the offer to sit down at the table and see what we can achieve. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna highlight one topic. Those are the safe men. That has been discussed before today. It is a small group within the overall asylum problem, but they cause large and disproportionately many problems. You've been to Emmen. Who else was in Emmen? Mr. Van Nispen? No, it was your colleague from the SP who had been there. There's a lot going on there. That's where the bus drivers have almost put the job. I really agree with them that they do, because that's not how it works. They are really spit on and threatened by safe people. In the morning at 6:00 a.m., they've already got the first swear cannon on their hands. That seems unacceptable to me. Then you come back to me with the reaction that it's unacceptable and then we put in some sort of patchwork. But it is not said that these people are going to feel the consequences of that. Then it's exit. It's exit from the Netherlands if you're so misbehaved. In fact, I think that these people are laughing at us, while your own government agreement explicitly mentions measures that can be used against this, for example the withdrawal of landing rights, visas and the cessation of development aid. But you do not have the courage to implement these measures. I asked you to work on this and you said: we are going to do our best to improve the relationship with Morocco. I believe you said that there will be some measures against Gambia. Yeah, I'm sorry, but that's really not enough. That's just not enough to tackle this problem. That's why I made a plan of my own. That's JA21's safety plan. I'd like to hand that over personally to the Secretary of State through the messenger. It contains eleven concrete and feasible measures to address this problem. I'd like to hear your reaction afterwards. Mr. Chairman. Then something completely different. Hümeyra, Joost Wolters, Anne Faber, Peter R. de Vries, Reagan Perez, Derk Wiersum, René Lucas and Jurick Felipa. What do these names/persons have in common? They were all killed by violent criminals with a long record in crime. They have committed serious crimes before. So I am now clearly coming to Minister of Justice Grapperhaus. This concerns repeaters, who have therefore turned crime into their profession and have often been given a fourth, fifth or sixth chance by the system. And I have only mentioned a limited selection of the names of the victims who died as a result. In fact, I might be more interested in Minister Dekker, because we would like to argue in favour of the three strikes, you're out system, three times and it is done. Then after three crimes you leave society for a long time and go to prison, for whoever is merciful to the wolves does wrong to the sheep. That's my motto. I would like a reflection from the Minister on this principle. Does he share the conclusion that too much suffering is being caused by people who, according to everyone with a little common sense, should have just been stuck, and that you could possibly have avoided this type of murder? Finally, my third theme: blue on the street. Well, then I'll get to Mr. Grapperhaus. It is an open door, but security stands or falls, as has been said earlier today, with a well-equipped police force. Unfortunately, years of austerity mean no such thing. Capacity shortages are high. Now we read that the Dutch Police Association warns that within a few years, the police force will consist of no less than a third of inexperienced new developments, with all the beginners' mistakes that naturally belong to them. How is that possible, I ask the Minister. How could that pension wave not have been estimated? Why did that become a surprise? How can the Netherlands cope with increasingly harsh organised crime with a completely inexperienced police force? Unfortunately, the district agent is also becoming an increasingly less visible phenomenon. There are far too few district agents and the district agents who are there are regularly put into emergency aid or used in the problem of confused persons. Now the legal standard, as mentioned by Mrs Michon, is in the Police Act, Article 38a: one district agent out of 5,000 residents. That is also what the Minister says: we are above that standard and we are slightly overstaffed with it. I've checked that out. I have looked at fifteen medium-sized cities such as a Beesel, a Bergeijk, up to larger municipalities such as a Tilburg, a Nijmegen, an Enschede, and it turns out that none of these fifteen municipalities meet the standard, none of them comply with it. Is it true you don't comply with your own police law? 'Cause that's basically what it's all about. The standard is not met in the fifteen cities I have studied. I have put them together for you. Will you check that out for me? Would you reflect on that for me? Or are you going to say that these were 15 coincidences? Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry too, but I'm gonna leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u443	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-24-tweedekamer-6.u444	Then I suggest we suspend until 7:55 p.m. We shall then begin with a two-minute debate on NATO/OSCE and then proceed with this debate.
