ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the relationship between central government and local authorities. I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden, on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Across the Binnenhof, a newly elected Lower House stumbles from one fuss to another. After a month and a half "who with whom?', I am pleased that we are taking the time here today to talk about the relationship between the central government and the local authorities. Many in this Senate have many years of experience in the local authorities, in the province, the water authority or the municipality. The latter also applies to myself. I'm still an active city councilman. The direct living and living environment is honorable, valuable and important to decide locally on behalf of many fellow towns and cities. Democracy starts close to home. I have heard many things today with which my group agrees. My hands itch to go into detail today about, for example, the usefulness and necessity of the province as a layer of government, or how our waterboards function, but I do not manage to do so in terms of speaking time, so I choose three main themes, mainly on the relationship between the Empire and the municipalities. These themes are: 1. the human measure; 2. the means; 3. the possibilities. I'll start with the human size. The human dimension is essential for democratic self-government to function sustainably in the Netherlands. The right human measure is also an important measure of how power and counterpower can be properly organized within our decentralised unitary state. That human size is getting more and more lost, also decentralized. Human measure, man, has been made subordinate to the wishes of the government. The government determines the mold, man has to see that he or she fits in. Now Dutch life during the construction of the house of Thorbecke is hardly comparable to now. When Thorbecke laid the foundation of the current administrative system in 1848, the Netherlands had around 3 million inhabitants. That's almost six times more by now. This growing population was completely opposed to what was happening on the ground floor of that house of Thorbecke. Where the population grew, the number of municipalities shrank spectacularly: from about 1,200 municipalities then to 352 municipalities now. Many have become unrecognizable, let alone belonging to the identity of its inhabitants. As a result, the administrative layer that should be closest to its inhabitants, which is the foundation of our democratic self-government, is increasingly being removed from those inhabitants. Since the 1980s, scaling has been the leading mantra. Small scale was called to be sneaky, by the way, throughout the public sector. Take the education, where small schools went into educational factories. Take care, where self-employed care providers, health insurance companies and hospitals disappear and are swallowed by grotesque giants that make up the service. And take the housing associations. Previously a strictly local affair, but due to the scaling up of the scale become real estate giants with chief drivers who let themselves drive around Maserati's. Also in municipalities, this scale increase struck, where, centrally controlled by successive Cabinets, management thinking won the victory of democracy. I just found D66's contribution to public-management thinking significant. We saw the culmination of decades of scaling up under the Rutte II cabinet. Then PvdA Minister Plasterk wanted a new "all-time high" municipality of at least 100,000 inhabitants as a standard. You didn't count any smaller than this one. A lower limit of a ton of inhabitants is the measure of the mass, but not of man. Fortunately, this ambition has never been met in the four years that follow. Oh, thank God. But the announcement, at that time alone, led to a new rat race of scaling, with direct mergers, but also indirect mergers as flights forward. Fake solutions were chosen, such as the administrative merger, regionalisation and other coagulations with limited democratic legitimacy. The city council is flooded with an ever-large task package, often with little insight into these partnerships, let alone grip. The municipal councils are and often do not feel in a position to seriously counter the proliferation of regulations, hordes of aldermen and mayors, who besides seas of time also have a huge battery of officials at their disposal. They use solemn jargon to push through that scaling agenda, and under that jargon, the most horrible word that exists in local public administration: administrative power. "Management power" and "government power measurements" are bureaucratic spells with the same result, which are always insufficient. This is followed by the advice that the administrative powerless municipality should be dissolved and redistributed. The magicians who perform the administrative power spell, external consultants, etc., write that down in fistful, expensive reports. In the meantime, the citizen looks at it and sees the distance between him and the government getting bigger. The democratic consequences of the increase in scale are visible. The larger the municipality, the lower the turnout in municipal elections. With each municipal reclassification, local political parties are also rendered harmless for the benefit of nationwide. Residents who became locally active in their immediate living and living environments disappear and make way for career tigers on their way to the final station: mayorship. I would like to ask the Minister about an important imbalance in the relationship between national and local, namely the fact that national parties do receive subsidies from the Wfpp and local parties do not. National parties can use these funds to finance their local campaigns, training and support, but not local parties. My group believes that this is unfair. Can the Minister explain why she does not change that and ensure a proportionate distribution among all political parties, including the local ones? Mr. Chairman. The imbalance between power and counterpower, which we have heard a lot about lately, has been going on at local level for a long time. Municipalities are burdened with increasingly less budgeted tasks. However, their lobby is strong and loud. The VNG also advocates, in the run-up to this debate, that the scaling-up discount should be removed. The scale-up discount is a austerity relic from the government VVD/PvdA, based on that 100,000 population standard and on the philosophy in which municipalities are a necessary evil. But as that standard went off the table, that scaling-up discount remained. It's simple: this scaling-up discount has to be removed from the table. Will the Minister promise today? My group goes on to do so. Not only should the scaling-up discount be removed; we also advocate the introduction of a scaling-down bonus, an additional budget for municipalities that opt for human size and scaling-down. They get extra money, depending on how much they save themselves in removing unnecessary bureaucracy. The result will be guessed: a higher quality of local facilities and lower local charges. Municipalities are encouraged to work on scaling up. Residents of many cores, districts and neighbourhoods will thus have a democratic influence on their immediate living and living environment, increased policy freedom and means to invest in local police stations, neighbourhood care and education. So not a scaling-up discount, but a scaling-down bonus with the starting point of returning the human dimension to our local democracy and to local government. How does the Minister see this? My group is considering a motion on this point. Then there is the second issue: the means. After the human size, the dough, the money. In recent years, there has been a loud and increasing call for extra money for municipalities, also in the run-up to this debate. We could go along with that, but it's a little too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u3	I agree with Mr van der Linden that much attention must be paid to the democratic legitimacy of local government. We talked about this this morning. Now he's talking about a scaling-off bonus. But how does that relate to those municipalities that decide to merge municipalities, i.e. if municipalities choose to do so themselves? That's happening right now. They choose to go together. Should they be punished because they wouldn't want to grant the premium that you do if they get smaller if they get bigger? How am I supposed to see this relationship, because it is also democratically legitimized from the bottom up, if at least the communities themselves want it to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u4	This is absolutely true. I think it is important that we consider the reasons why it is chosen from below. For an important part, I can also agree with what Mr Koole has just said, which is about the tasks of the municipality. Do they still see and are they still able to do what is being poured out on them, sometimes also as the government's executive office? So I think we should strive to ensure that that wish is no longer there at all from the bottom up. In fact, if we organize and reward this in a good way when we stand for small scale and human size, then we municipalities and residents in line think to say that they want to scale down and get smaller again, rather than bigger because otherwise they can't handle it anymore. We believe that this should be the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u5	The human dimension is a good starting point, but that does not necessarily conflict with the desire of some municipalities to go together, if that desire comes from the bottom up. Does Mr Van der Linden recognize that you can also be human when you decide to make a larger connection?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u6	What is the right human measure is not to cast or define in a mold. It is not, for example, 100,000 or 10,000 inhabitants. The right human measure is one that suits the inhabitants, so that they can be involved, the democratic activity is great and the turnout at elections is high. That's not a fixed number or a fixed thing. I was with the resources. Important comments also fit in with the call for extra money. Only more money for municipalities is a bit out of the question, and I want to make that point here today. Anyone who spends more time in the city or in the province and with his camping equipment in his hand pulls on safari through that organization jungle, he looks out his eyes. Because there, in the caverns and corners of local democracy, it's teeming with exotic bureaucratic species: case directors, customer coordinators, directors, strategists, participatory managers, communication advisors, process directors, policy brokers, climate coaches and quartermasters, many of them hired externally at a firm rate. They all pass by on the average municipal or provincial afari, resulting in a huge excess of overhead costs, occupation therapy and box-sliding, at taxpayers' expense. None of the bureaucratic species I have just mentioned are threatened with extinction. It is good to reflect on this today. We have to ask ourselves whether all public funds spent on this are of added value to the citizen. If more efficient use of public funds over the past decades was the starting point for scaling up, has it been successful?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u7	I can wholeheartedly share Mr Van der Linden's analysis on this point. I'm just wondering one thing. I just heard Mr van der Linden say that the scaling down bonus can be used to reduce bureaucracy. That is a good, creative idea in itself, but it can also be a perverse incentive. Then municipalities say that they are going to give up a lot of tasks to outsiders and then they will be rid of their bureaucratic role. Their officials don't do the job anymore. And then bring up the scale bonus, because then they will be a smaller organisation, with fewer officials. But the money will then be spent in a different way. Can we agree that at least this perverse incentive should be removed from the system if it were to be implemented in the way you propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u8	Yes, but I also believe that these kinds of perverse incentives are avoided when that scaling takes place. When municipalities get smaller and the city council gets more in position, it is closer to it and has a better view of it. There can then be discussion about these things, and most of the time one does not go along with that. Or there will be elections over it and people will go along with it, but that is what the people obviously want. I believe in that democratic debate. Excesses will be locally corrected if the human size is there and the city council and the size of the municipality are in proportion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u9	That is indeed an important basic idea, but I think that Mr Van der Linden is as well aware as I do that practice is often a little more uncomfortable. Colleges often choose the easier way by outsourcing certain public tasks to the jungle of consultants you just mentioned. The work often has to be done. So what is the direction of the Nanninga Group's thinking? How can this problem be properly tackled? I think it's too easy to say that it's being crystallized at local level and the board is on top of it. Too often this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u10	I don't necessarily think hiring an outside party is always bad. I think Pim Fortuyn said a lot about it at the time. It can also be very good on points to have a smaller standard device and to hire occasionally when you have something special, for example the change of a zoning plan. You can get a desk for that, too. You don't necessarily have to have a full-time person at a smaller town. So the market really isn't always bad, but if you keep the municipality small-scale and the council is close on it, I think you can easily make decisions about it and control it. That's better than the grotesque shapes we see now and then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u11	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u12	It may indeed be useful and necessary to hire an expert, but the problem is that municipalities, if you start working with such a scale bonus, where they, as you suggest in the announced motion, get money from the government, are going to bet that money on very expensive consultants to get that scale bonus. What are you going to do to prevent that? I'll take that as a risk that might arise. Is that how you want to deal with rich money? That's the question. It remains taxpayers' money, citizens' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u13	Finally, Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u14	I notice that Mr Van Hattem is very much in favour of how this scaling bonus is going to be used, but my aim with that contribution is also to present the scaling bonus as a vision against that religion of scaling up and against those scaling discounts that are constantly there. Why don't we reward the small scale instead of saying you're too small, we're going to cut you short; you're going to have to get bigger? That's the point. I want to break that philosophy of scaling up here today. I'll give you the scaling bonus as an example of how you could reward it. I also mentioned the link between savings in overhead and bureaucracy that can produce small scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u15	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u16	If more efficient use of public funds was the starting point, why don't we read weekly about the fantastic efficiency benefits that all this scaling up brings? Where are those headlines? No, what we see is just a cry for extra money, not less money. Has the implementation of these decades of scaling up been successful or failed, or should we increase the scale again in order to see these headlines appear? I have a number of questions to the Minister concerning smart and efficient working, with low overhead costs, with minimal public resources delivering maximum quality for residents. Does the Minister have a sense of whether the local government is doing well in this area? You would expect that with all modern resources and possibilities there will be substantial savings in the local government nowadays. Does the Ministry of the Interior now help local authorities with this purpose, not by threatening to scale up, but by helping municipalities with concrete improvements in business management that actually save money? Where it is very valuable, on the one hand, for sovereign and different democratic decisions on policies, such as road construction, outdoor spaces and sports accommodation, on the other hand, it is really useful to make centrally supported work on savings in management, in reducing bureaucracy. There is a world to be won by having central support to regulate apolitically identical business operations properly. There are things that are never really politically discussed in municipal councils, such as good ICT. This is about what software should be used, about identical systems for standard tasks, safe, affordable and fast, for example a shared service center for accounting. All these 352 municipalities have the same rules. Our call is: make a work of it and regulate business operations well and professionally. But lower policy and democratic decision-making among residents as low as possible. Can the Minister for the Interior explain how she sees this, how she has helped local authorities to succeed in recent years and what the results are? Mr. Chairman. Moreover, the call for money is mainly about policy, not about business management. It is mainly about the social domain, Wmo, youth care, the Participation Act, matters that were decentralised in 2015. For this, municipalities were given additional resources, but with a considerable austerity mission. A lot has been said about that. It turns out it's harder to realize than it thought at the time. It would be good, as a number of parties have already done here today, to consider how this went with the decentralisation of tasks and with the budgets. Can the Minister summarise once again how much has been cut at the start of these three D's in terms of what has been transferred to municipalities? How much budget was cut off when these tasks were laid down in municipalities? How does that relate to that call for more money? Afterwards, do we think that the cut in the front was wise? If not, what is needed to financially fix that unwise decision? Then I come to my third theme, namely the possibilities. I have already heard a number of speakers on the possibilities of properly implementing public policy and public administration at a decentralised level. Let me start with a positive one. In many policy areas, that is fine. The outdoor areas are, for example, a typical local issue. Plant management and maintenance, dredging of locks and laying of playgrounds and bike paths are quite nice locally, but there are topics where it really pinches. These are major issues, of which we certainly have to ask ourselves in this debate whether the opportunities for doing local good are not too limited. I would like to address two of these issues, namely youth care and housing. I'll start with housing. That is a theme that we have talked about a lot in this house in the last year. At that time, I outlined some of the main causes of the current housing crisis, such as the net immigration figures we cannot build up against and the climate policy, which makes new construction very expensive. But it also wrings at the relationship between the central government and the decentralised government. We don't see the impact force we saw during the Vinex neighbourhood realization anymore. This is because in many cities and villages the emphasis is on building as much inner city as possible and on compacting. That is understandable, on the one hand, because space is scarce in our country. If we sacrifice our greens, the Netherlands will be one big city. But that inner city redevelopment does come with a price tag. The land price is higher, but also the demolition and construction costs and accessibility play a role. Furthermore, there are many more stakeholders and neighbors than when you build in a meadow. Affordable living and urban building is therefore now a contradiction in terms. It's almost impossible. It's all expensive what's built inside. My question to the Minister is: what possibilities do you see to break the deadlock on expensive inner city buildings versus the need for affordable housing? The second point in terms of possibilities is youth care. That has also been mentioned a few times today. There it runs on parts waltzing out of the claws. More than seven years after decentralisation, there are two major problems. Firstly, the household booklet and the instruments of municipalities are not in order. Secondly, a cowboy market is emerging. The victims are children who need help, but do not get it. They come regularly on long waiting lists. It has not improved as a result of the corona crisis. A lot is being written about the cowboy market that started. I would like to refer to Follow the Money, which has been publishing appalling but also striking examples for years. For example, the explosion of horse coaching as a health product. This is reimbursed by municipalities, contrary to the advice of the Ministry of Health. Cuffing subsidised alpacas doesn't seem to be far away anymore. In the Dutch youth care market, so much money is currently being made by some parties, that international venture capitalists, in search of usury profits, enter the Dutch market. For example, the French investment company Apax Partners recently bought the largest Dutch youth GGZ chain, namely Mental Better. This chain generates a large part of its income from youth care activities that are reimbursed by municipalities. Can the Minister reflect on this development? Is this a good example of what has been happening in healthcare for many years, particularly by the VVD? Municipalities are asking for more state money to put their housekeeping books in order. But isn't the problem also in the instruments of the municipalities? Should we dare to conclude that municipalities are only limited in their ability to be effective in the complex field of specialised youth care? On the one hand, they must deal well with the proliferation of lucrative providers and, on the other hand, they must be able to offer counter-play to giant caretakers who have so much market power that they do not care about the wishes of an individual municipality, because they still serve 200. In order to effectively steer complex youth care as colleges of B and W and as a city council, specialist knowledge is indispensable. Casusism is complex and also very sensitive to privacy. Much of this complex concern is still placed at a distance in opaque common regulations in the region. As far as we are concerned, like a number of other parties, today we are also debating whether the municipality is fit to be responsible for complex specialist youth care. After more than seven years of decentralisation, should we not simply conclude that we need to organise this differently? We are gloomy about the opportunities for municipalities to send here effectively and effectively. We say yes to low-threshold care in the district, but we say no to complex specialist youth care in municipalities. I would like to hear the views of the Minister and the other parties. Mr President, my conclusion. I come to the end of my contribution, which I started with a reference to the other side of the Binnenhof. That is what these days is about the need for a different political governance culture. This other political governance culture is also needed in the relationship between central government and decentralised authorities, putting an end to the administrative religion of scaling up and returning to the human dimension as the central starting point of policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I would like to give the floor to Mr Rombouts on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u18	Thank you. Over the past 40 years I have served three municipalities, the twelve united provinces, the Lower House and, for six years, this Chamber. Add that I have been able to write a dissertation on the administrative organisation of a number of Western European countries and compare their legal systems and administrative organisations. You would think: that man must have been eager to agree to a debate on the relationship between the central government and the local authorities in our country. Mr. Chairman, you know me. I am in no way reluctant to be here, but I cannot say that I was immediately enthusiastic about Mr Ganzevoort's idea of holding a debate on this subject. Like probably many here, over the years I have seen too many reports, research, advice and scientific analyses pass by to think that we can add a great deal to this today. Let alone that I think that as First Chamber today we will be able to make substantial renovations in the more than a century and a half ago designed house by architect Thorbecke. It is also a question of whether the emphasis should be on this in this debate. I believe more in changes in culture than in the structure of our public administration, and in the way in which governments interact, and specifically the way in which government in our decentralised unitary state gives space and trust to municipalities and provinces. I doubt whether there is much point in giving messages to the already busy outgoing minister and asking her questions here today. I also wonder whether it is appropriate that we should turn to the informant from this house by means of one or more motions already announced. Are we, as the First Chamber, not also going to commit ourselves to passages in a new coalition agreement? Moreover, the received position paper of the VNG already goes to the informant. That was announced on that paper. So we do not need to make another motion. Other opinions, such as those of the Public Administration Council, should be sufficiently known to the negotiating parties in the Lower House? Mr. Chairman. Would it not be better if, in this debate, we looked at ourselves in particular and discussed what we, as the First Chamber, could do better from our specific responsibility in the years to come in terms of restoring and maintaining balanced administrative and financial relations between central government and local authorities? Mr. Chairman. I have learned that for the central government this is about indicating what you want and staying away from the question of how to implement it. Or put it another way: set frameworks and then let go. It is also important to encourage rather than discourage. In addition, much depends on the extent to which governments are prepared to self-reflection, especially the elected representatives in the First and Second Chambers, as well as in municipal councils and Provincial States; the concept has fallen earlier here today. Surely it will not sound strange to you when I say that it is often lacking, even in this house. That is why our group has also welcomed your initiative to discuss our role as First Chamber with the group chairmen. When will we be able to hear about the successful results of this clean reflection? I hope you will join us in this debate today. It is my experience that our local, provincial and national parliaments often overestimate their own possibilities. No misunderstanding: the last word must always remain with elected representatives. With them lies the primate. They have the budget right. They are co-legislators. They control the executive. But in my opinion it is a misconception to think that a city council or the Lower House will only really be the highest body if it also dominates the policy itself, creates the policy. For this creative power, people's representatives are mostly not equipped or selected. The formulation and drafting of often complicated legislation is a subject, a subject separate; it has often been said. Recent experiences with the child allowance affair and the corona law have made it clear to us this time that this is the case. The Bosman Committee, which was investigating the implementation organisations, was also critical of the role of the House of Representatives. In my opinion, the creative work can be left to experts, policy officials, advisers, lawyers, the Council of State and scientists, with this note: of course under the direction of the executive, the government, the colleges of B and W and the Deputy States. Mr. Chairman. If, moreover, it is true, I believe that this is true; this is also a practical experience that good people and enough money are basic conditions for success, isn't this the key to success for more balance in our decentralised unitary state and for a more effective relationship between the administrative bodies in the unitary state?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u19	I hear Mr Rombouts telling us all kinds of things about the House of Representatives and the Assembly in general, that they may not be selected on or at least do not have the capacity to do as he calls it, and above all that we should leave these matters to the executive. I'm still a little puzzled. How does Mr Rombouts combine such comments with the formal legislative role that Parliament also has? Because lawmaking is also creating, the Lower House is a little more than the Upper House, because the Lower House can even create parts. If Mr Rombouts says that this creative role does not really belong to the national parliament, does he say that the legislative power should go exclusively to the executive, in this case the government, and that we as a parliament should concentrate exclusively on the controlling role?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u20	The question is clear. If I had to reply very briefly, I would say the following. The adoption of laws is a task of co-legislators, of the parts of parliament. But proposing exactly what these texts should look like is a more complex process in which elected representatives, in my heartfelt opinion, should make full use of everything around them to get the right text in the right context of legislation. Let me give you an example. When I was a young employee across the street, I had to make amendments for MPs. What did we do? We consulted lawyers from the legislative ministry that still existed at the time, at the Home Office, at the Justice Department or at the Council of State. We asked them to help us ensure that these texts do not only contain what Members of Parliament wanted. That is what they have to understand in the end; I think I have said the same thing. In fact, the primacy lies with the Members of Parliament. But we also had to ensure that what Members of Parliament wanted, in the wording of such an article, such an amendment would come into its own in the context of that total law. Mr. Koole, let's not overestimate our own possibilities for that, even as First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u21	I have a rather limited idea of what the legislative power is. It is actually limited here to a "law-making power." Mr Rombouts says: "Yes, I have had experience of this myself as an employee of the House of Representatives." Members of the House must, of course, also be well informed when they make amendments, and so on. I believe that every Member of Parliament in the Upper House and the Lower House should be well informed and should use the best knowledge available to check, and also to "give" laws. But that legislative power is something more than what Mr Rombouts seems to be suggesting here. It's more than just passing laws. Part of that legislative power, especially for the House of Representatives, is also making initiative legislative proposals. Of course they use that right there. Do I understand correctly when I conclude that Mr Rombouts is now saying: 'I am actually opposed to initiative and amendment proposals, and only to Parliament's determining law on laws'? I'm gonna say this on purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u22	Now you're making a caricature of what I said. When I used the words 'fix' and 'proposals', I said that it was a bit short-sighted and that I put it briefly. After that, I think I gave a longer answer. What I wanted to emphasise today, and indeed earlier here, is that we must continue to have the courage to look at ourselves. I shall come back to that later in my text. We should not just be able to send messages to this outgoing minister today, ask him a hundred questions, and expect him to be okay. That goes even for giving letters to the informant, through you, Chairman. I think that we as the First Chamber should ask the question: who are we? The First Chamber indeed has that co-legislative power and power. And, of course, there are a lot of lawyers here in this Chamber who know a lot about that. You belong to the front of it. But let's not think nothing ever goes wrong. The blame for the child allowance affair can be given to the executive, but the Van Dam Committee, and then the Bosman Committee, have made it clear that the House of Representatives must look at itself. Have you heard the debate in the House of Representatives on this since then? That is how I would like to tell you: when we talk about decentralisation and relations between governments in the First Chamber, let us look at ourselves in particular. The First Chamber is the Chamber of reflection, the Chamber of "prevent the delusion of the day." Let us ask ourselves what we can do next time to act in this way, by asking: have you thought carefully about whether the person you decentralise to can handle this, and will you give enough money to make it a success?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u23	Thank you. I propose to keep the interruptions somewhat brief where possible, as well as the answers. Mr. Koole, you're asking your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u24	Of course, I did not want to put Mr Rombouts in the wrong corner at all, because I have him very high. But I just want to get it sharp, because we're just reflecting on each other. I did not ask this question to the Minister, but it was a question to MPs, among themselves. I note, therefore, that Mr Rombouts sees the task of the legislative authority as somewhat broader than merely laying down laws. I'm pleased with that answer. In America, they call MPs "legislators." That indeed goes a lot further there than in the Dutch system. But I would really like to stick to the legislative power in the broad sense of Parliament. Fortunately, so does Mr Rombouts, I understand now. In this way, Parliament can really take part in the question of what a law should look like in terms of content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u25	Thank you. You continue your argument, Mr. Rombouts. No, Mr. Van Hattem has a short interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u26	Yes, Mr President, I still have a brief interruption on this point, because I think it is an interesting discussion. I can agree with Mr Koole's criticism of the co-law story. But today, of course, we are also talking about the decentralised level. We have, of course, since about 2002, 2003 dualism in the Netherlands. I have the feeling that the situation described by Mr Rombouts is actually more the situation under monism, where councils and states were still very cooperative. The situation that Mr Rombouts is actually describing is the situation that we already have, with a dualism where most of the proposals simply come directly from the lectures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u27	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u28	My question is: is the problem outlined by Mr Rombouts not already covered by the dualist system?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u29	No. Mr Van Hattem and I have both been part of the city council of's-Hertogenbosch; he is still part of it. This weekend I brought in my speech in 1998 for the city council of's-Hertogenbosch, when it was installed. That's when I was talking about the creative power that you have to question. As Mr Koole put it in his own way, I would also like to congratulate him on that. In fact, that must be an interplay between the politicians, who actually decide what they want to have arranged, but you also have to make very good use of those around you who understand laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u30	That is still not really an answer to the question I have asked. The point is that, at a decentralised level, I see that most of the proposals come directly from the colleges; that is virtually all the proposals. There are very few initiative proposals in the Councils and in the States. And when they are there, they are discussed very carefully and also with the involvement of the College and the Civil Service. So I do not see the problem outlined here by Mr Rombouts. Then I wonder where this problem comes from at a decentralised level. That legislation here with amendments might be a bit more difficult to deal with now and then, but I think that the problem at a decentralised level is less important. So I wonder where this came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u31	I think you are right that it is a little less difficult at a decentralised level, because that legislative power is not so big there at all. In municipal councils it is often about notes and less about regulations. But here we all know the amendment on the covid measures. That has become a very complicated construct. We all know the "forceful" force of child allowances fraud, which is actually born in the House of Representatives. What I want to say and what I will continue to say here for a long time is: let everyone do what they are as an institution on earth. Well, then maybe these inter-administrative relationships will work out just fine. But if everyone is going to do something that is assigned to someone else when the First Chamber of Lower House is going to play and when the Second Chamber is going to dominate, we are going to mess things up a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u32	Mr. Van Hattem, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u33	Finally. I have to come back to the point that Mr Koole just made: as a parliament we are also co-legislators, especially from the Lower House with the initiating role, but at the same time we certainly should not sit on the seat of the Lower House. I agree with Mr Rombouts, but I do not really have much concern about the point we are talking about here, about the decentralised level. On the contrary, I would like to encourage the Council and the Member States to take a little more initiative in order to make even more effective the role of the people's representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u34	Thank you. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u35	It very much appeals to me that we are also picking up self-reflection through Mr Rombouts' input. We note that a lot of laws that come in from across the street have been completely amended upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u36	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u37	All the way upside down have been amended. Sometimes there are so many amendments that you get very close to the problem that Mr Rombouts, in my humble opinion, has just pointed out: if we are not careful, the legal texts are not really congruent anymore. If we are in the process of self-reflection, should we not, as the First Chamber, be more alert to the fact that a law has indeed been substantially amended and should we not use the means more often to go to the Council of State or something like that, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u38	We did that the other day, didn't we? I believe that there is now a request for information from the Council of State on one of the laws pending here, precisely to look at that amendment by the House of Representatives. Actually, that's the theme I wanted to arrest. Mr. Chairman. I said: if it is also true that good people and enough money are basic conditions for success, is there not the key to success for more balance and more effective intergovernmental relations in our decentralised unitary state? The balance in that unitary state naturally shifts over time. However, it is now widely recognised, today in fact by all the speakers, that there has been a disturbing imbalance over the last ten to fifteen years between what the central government expects of municipalities in particular and what can reasonably be asked. The advice of the Public Administration Board and the information of the Council of State also bear witness to this. In its recent position paper, the VNG also makes an urgent appeal to politics and even sets conditions for further cooperation with the Empire in the next cabinet period. That's all understandable. Mr. Chairman. For today's debate, I should like to confine myself to two important issues: financial relations and administrative relations. I will not, as I had predicted, exhaust myself in questions to this outgoing minister. I would particularly like to challenge ourselves to look in the mirror: what can we, as a Chamber of reflection and as a guardian, contribute against the delusion of the day to keeping the house of Thorbecke in order? That house still has only three real floors: the municipalities, also called the first government, because they operate close to the citizens, the provinces, still our official, because directly elected middle management, and the government. In its recent opinion, the Public Administration Board states "Rust-Reinheid-Regelmate" that it squeaks and cracks in the house of Thorbecke, particularly in the finances of the decentralised administration and especially in the municipalities. But it's not just a matter of more money, that council says. "The real cause lies in a imbalance between tasks, powers and funding. Because of this imbalance, there is not enough room for local authorities to make their own policy choices and their ability to act is limited." The Council therefore draws attention to the structural financial deficits of two out of three municipalities in our country and points out that in recent years, following large decentralisations in the social domain, the municipalities have had to close down public services, such as libraries and swimming pools. The deficit is estimated at 1.5 billion a year. Mr President, this is very worrying, because I quote the Public Administration Council "municipalities have a crucial role in long-term challenges such as housing, climate adaptation and sustainability." A bag of money, a redistribution of the Municipal Fund, another standard-setting system or an extension of the possibilities of levying local taxes: it is all necessary and desirable, says that council. But it does not solve the structural problem in the administrative and financial relations between the Empire and the municipalities. According to the Public Administration Board, these are four things: finance, administrative organisation... who does what? It is also important to ensure that local and regional authorities are able to control the culture, the way in which the Empire operates, and the departments with the municipalities. With the Council, I believe that strong decentralised governance is very important for the proper functioning of our democratic system. The municipalities are not only historically the first government, they are also, in many cases, the first government to deal with citizens. It must have been in the middle of the 1990s that I, as director of the Interprovincial Consultation, was visited by the then new Swedish ambassador. I have never forgotten how we could call our country a decentralised unitary state, with appointed officials at the head of municipalities and provinces, who, in his view, also know such an incredibly small tax area. When I had explained to him what tasks the Dutch municipalities fulfil both in autonomy and in co-government, he was quickly convinced. No wonder, because the Swedish municipalities and the municipalities in most European countries are rather stark at this. However, in recent years, municipalities have been given many heavy tasks, but without proper consideration of their ability to cope with them all, without transferring the budgets needed for adequate implementation. And then I come back to my lesson, one of the most important lessons I've learned as a driver over the past decades: good people + enough money = success. Is there not also a clean task for the First Chamber, the task of being alert or, in the case of a future transfer of tasks, well thought about to whom, to which decentralised level, tasks are being transferred, and whether these local authorities are able to make this transfer a success? And shouldn't we be asking for a firm answer here, when even the VNG says that the colleague of the VVD Group was already talking about municipalities that can carry over tasks better and cheaper? Because wasn't this what was heard from the President of the Association of Dutch Municipalities at the time? I didn't want to mention her name, because she could have been here this afternoon, but you mentioned her function back then. And haven't municipalities partly called their current problems over themselves by saying "we can do better, and even cheaper"? Hear me say it, a city man pur sang! Looking critically, that's what the First Chamber should do when things like this come at us; isn't that a lesson we've learned in recent years? Did they, the municipalities, not agree too eagerly with another task? You and I know that many municipalities are too small to provide administrative and administrative services for the proper performance of tasks such as youth care, the WMO and the Participation Act. And that results in tasks being actually shifted to non-democratically-led regional authorities, and/or to market players. Should we not, as the First Chamber, be more vigilant about the feasibility of decentralisation like this in the future? Mr. Chairman. It is because of these glasses that my group wants to look into intergovernmental relations in the future, and at the plea which is being put forward from various sides to take firm action in this regard. Let us not forget: we too believe that some surgical interventions are necessary, but we all believe in a healthier lifestyle, a healthier way of dealing with the government with its fellow governments in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u39	This brings you to the end of your speech? No? Then you'll finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u40	No, I saw someone approaching, but I'll leave it to you, Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, there is a special role for the parent department of the local authorities: the Ministry of the Interior. A department that understands how it works in municipalities and provinces. That in the top is manned by people with extensive experience at a decentralised level. Finally, as a mother, cares about the functioning of municipalities and provinces. The fact that other departments always negotiate with municipalities and provinces on decentralisation and other major shifts in their responsibilities and responsibilities. A department that is urgently needed to upgrade, not by adding tasks that need to be given asylum somewhere, but by strengthening its position so that it becomes again the authoritative, leading department for the local authorities. Mr President, as you have noticed, I did not ask the Minister any questions, but of course I am curious about her reflection on my contribution. I would like to ask her one more question, exceptionally. In spite of its missionary status, would it not wish to follow one recommendation from the Public Administration Council already? It concerns the following, and I quote: 'to appoint a special Commissioner who will come within a year with the elaboration of a coherent package of measures to address the underlying causes of the imbalance in administrative relations and to ensure clear rules of the game that all parties know how to play'. Then the next cabinet can make a flying start at this point. Ceterum censeo and, by the way, the CDA Group believes that the scale-up reduction should be definitively abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u41	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. It's time for a few brief interruptions. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u42	I do appreciate the fact that the Minister of the Interior is here, she is our greatest expert in this field. The fact that she's outgoing doesn't mean she doesn't get paid anymore or that she has to do other things. I think she's in office until the last day of her term, and I hope to hear a lot from her around our reflection. Mr Rombouts is right to say that we should look at ourselves. That is an important part of this debate. He says good people and enough money. If that works, it's right, and if it doesn't work, it doesn't. When we had to talk about the transfer of youth care to the municipalities there was a meeting of 1,100 youth care workers in the Grote Kerk. I've been there and I've seen a lot of people there with tears in their eyes. They said: we think it is fantastic that it is decentralised, but under these conditions it simply cannot happen; anyone can calculate that. That was just one example. How could it be, I ask Mr Rombouts, that we had so little eye and ear for the warnings that were already on the table at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u43	Are you now asking the First Chamber, through you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kox? Are you asking Mr Rombouts of this House, or are you asking the whole of the Netherlands? In fact, the answer to that question was raised this morning by the speaker from the VVD Group. In the end, the municipality was only recently definitively informed that decentralisation was imminent, that it was proposed. I think that one of the lessons that we could learn in a self-reflection process is that, before you decide on decentralisation, you have to think twice or three times if you really want to. This Chamber is specific to reconsider.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u44	Of course, we can learn that lesson. But we have heard from the CDA Group, the VVD Group and the PvdA Group that these three major decentralisations were not realistic afterwards, in the words of Mrs van der Burg. We can learn from that, but I wonder how, at that time, we were so eager to do something ideologically driven, but we had closed our eyes to the fact that there was at that time. Not only were there the people in the Great Church, but there were other data on the table that indicated that decentralizing under these circumstances is a question of misery. What can we learn from that in order not to allow that to happen in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u45	I don't have the answer, but I do have answers. I have pointed out the eagerness of the municipalities themselves. They wanted it because they could do it closer to the citizen better and cheaper. They knew that. That is not what you are hearing anymore, because it is only a matter of The Hague doing it wrong. The municipalities should also look at themselves. In addition, of course, there is also the urge of a new cabinet to cut back. In the past, decentralisation has also been a form of austerity. There is, of course, the ideal perspective when it comes to young people, youth, and when it comes to people within the Participation Act or the Wmo. Then you may actually hope that municipalities are closer to it and have more insight into doing well than aloof national bodies or government services.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u46	Thank you, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u47	At the beginning of his speech, Mr Rombouts said: I am no longer thinking about changing structures, but more about changing culture. However, the CDA was at the time one of the supporters of the motion in this Chamber who asked the Minister of the Interior at the time for a strategic vision on the modernisation of administrative relations. Did he get off that now and say, "Let's not talk about that anymore?" That's kind of like the Council of State says. Or does he still believe, as his group believed in 2012, that at some point we will have to settle the matter better in order to make these problems more manageable, I do not mean to prevent them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u48	Mr Rombouts, please give a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u49	I have spent a lot of time in my studies and shortly afterwards on structures and I have been driven away from them. I do not believe in it. I would like to leave it to the House to note here, in the course of legislative proceedings, that things are regulated by structural changes. In fact, I don't think everything can be regulated by laws. This is an example of the undermining law, which was promised by the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, who has not been there for four years. I'm not sad about that. Let's get an undermining squad in here. I'd think we'd have to think about one more thing. There has been a lot of comment today on regional services that are undemocratically legitimized. I very much agree with that. Why don't we make better use of the provinces? We do. There are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u50	I have heard Mr Rombouts look back on his career several times in his speech. I heard him say: we should also look at our own role and their own function and start from that in the Netherlands. One point we have not yet discussed, and that is the role of the mayors. I remember a lecture in Brabant a few years ago from Benjamin Barber: If mayors rule the world. One of the speakers present was Mr Rombouts as mayor of's-Hertogenbosch. One of the theories was that there should be a world parliament of mayors. I think Mr Rombouts said something at the time as 'it would be good if there were a world economic forum of mayors'. I come to the question of whether mayors should also be more focused on their role and that it should be primarily about their own municipalities and not so much about all kinds of international ambitions. They should especially look at how to manage their own congregation as best they can, and then put their money on it. Is that something that should be part of that own role?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u51	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u52	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u53	Mr. Chairman. In a few decades, this country has become a meeting hall for all kinds of professionals who have fallen over the country as a kind of biblical plague and are becoming less and less in control. Administrative spaghetti, clay layers, rattoe, patchwork, all kinds of qualifications have already been passed in this debate. Let me sum it up in a nutshell: The Netherlands has become an administrative gang in just two decades. Mr. Chairman. We have gone into politics to bring about the much-needed modernisation of the Netherlands. As in 1848, when the Constitution of Thorbecke was introduced in no time, the Netherlands now needs a rigorous reorganisation of the administrative model. The administrative density in the Netherlands has become far too large. Nowhere is the number of drivers per square kilometre as high as in the Netherlands, and nowhere does this cost so much money: 10% of our collective burden burden, 80 billion euros per year and also 10% of our GDP goes to our public administration. So that's a huge cost. Every year and structurally we spend 80 billion on all this consultation, this coordination and this meeting. The only sector that has grown under the Rutte Cabinets is the collective sector. The house of Thorbecke has thus gradually become an uninhabitable house. We have 352 municipalities, 12 provinces, the Empire and, of course, the EU. That's four levels of government. But we also have many hundreds of common regulations. I just walked back to my table for this overview of those common arrangements. I took a look yesterday at how many of them are actually there. You then arrive at 20 pages, with per page 30 common arrangements. So there are many hundreds, ranging from the common arrangement of archaeology West Frisian municipalities to archive management for Rijswijk and its surroundings. I can go on like this for a while. There has been a true proliferation, often without significant democratic legitimacy. For this purpose, the Act strengthens legitimacy common arrangements have been devised. This is currently under discussion across the street, in the House of Representatives. I was reading the Council of State's judgment on this law. We share the conclusion reached by the Council of State. This is because this law will at most bring about marginal changes and can in practice create additional complicating effects. The Council of State is also talking about the so-called 'decentralisation paradox'. This subject has already been discussed in the debate. I think that the Council of State has essentially summarized this concept of decentralisation paradox. What's that? If tasks are carried out on a smaller scale, from national to local, Youth Services has already been mentioned, but there are other matters too, then this requires rapid scaling up from local to regional. So we will have all these common arrangements, with much more consultation. Because of all the scaling up, there are already a lot less municipalities than several decades ago. If we look at how these 352 municipalities are divided over the provinces, we can see that mergers in the municipalities have reduced the role of the province enormously. The province of Flevoland has only six municipalities: Almere, Lelystad, Dronten, Noordoostpolder, Zeewolde and Urk. Together they have about 420,000 inhabitants. The province of Groningen has ten municipalities, Drenthe twelve, Zeeland thirteen and Friesland eighteen. Only North and South Holland, Gelderland and Brabant run some 50 municipalities. Brabant has 61 of them the most. In general we see the following four developments. First of all, there is a huge increase in the scale of the municipalities due to the reclassifications and mergers over the last 20 to 30 years. Secondly, there is increasing regionalisation through a jungle of common regulations. Thirdly, there is the Empire which is contracting out more and more tasks to municipalities, which will then organise them regionally again. Provinces are increasingly desperate for their own right to exist. What is needed now is to break down Thorbecke's uninhabitable home and rebuild it as a 21st century, sustainable, new and modern building that meets all modern requirements, so that this country can be managed again and an effective counter-power can be created. But it does so in a way that also facilitates decisive governance and agitates more dynamics. Mr President, you know us, we not only criticize these matters, but also often come up with solutions. I'll outline how this could be resolved. This system was also introduced in 1848 in a rather short time, when it was a very troubled time in Europe, with several royal houses falling over. In that revolutionary time Thorbecke's house was built very quickly almost like a prefab house, because it happened so quickly. How would we do that now? Ideally, if we went to the drawing board now, we would say: the provinces we abolish. The Netherlands is divided into five districts: the district of Noord, which consists of Groningen, Friesland and Drenthe, the district of Randstad-Noord, which consists of Noord-Holland, Flevoland and parts of the Gooi and Vecht region, the district of Randstad-Zuid, which consists of Zuid-Holland and Zeeland, the district of Oost, which consists of Overijssel, Utrecht and Gelderland and finally the district of Zuid, which consists of North Brabant and Limburg. The population of these districts then elects the five regional district parliaments themselves. The elections of the Provincial States can then be abolished. At the same time, the population of each district also chooses the Commissioner of their district.......................................................................................................................................................................... We are therefore going to pay the elected members of the district parliaments normally and provide them with good support. Not like today in most provinces, 55 members in Provincial States, who have to carry out their tasks for €1,100 gross per month, which is also less and less enthusiastic. It is therefore no wonder that we read more and more stories in the press about people who quit and are no longer in the mood. What we need: fewer politicians, but better paid, so that we can attract better calibre representatives. As far as we are concerned, that is how you can effectively tackle the party cartel, which is talked about so much. Not with essay competitions or with creating as much fuss as possible, but from within, with new people and with new momentum. The role of the First Chamber, together with the introduction of this new structure with the five districts, could possibly be taken over by a constitutional court. Then, as the First Chamber, as a final part of this most necessary modernisation operation, we can abolish ourselves. The jungle of common rules is therefore under review at the same time. In principle, you could say that all the common regulations lapse and all go to the districts. And if we think that a regulation is absolutely necessary, a kind of application procedure will be launched at the district in question, in which one can explain the importance of the continued existence of this common system. Mr President, I will conclude. The Netherlands has become far too complicated, in many areas. For example, the administrative model, the tax system, see, for example, the supplementing drama, both management and electorate are gradually unable to tie in with it. That costs a huge amount of money, each year 80 billion dollars worth of money that we could so well spend on other things. As far as we are concerned, it is now time to start this great modernisation. Our group therefore sends this message to the forming parties: take it radically instead of even more boastful and complicated dummy solutions. We understand that the Prime Minister wants a radical new governance model. As far as we are concerned, therefore, there is no time to waste. Get to work! We'd like to give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u54	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I would like to give the floor to Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about decentralisation. Anyone who looks at our debate will suspect that we are facing the following questions: is decentralisation good, should it be more, should it be less? I just heard Mr Rombouts say: if we are also going to have a piece of self-reflection as the First Chamber and I think he also means the Second Chamber, then you have to think about whether you really want that decentralisation. As a lawyer, I'm always inclined to look at the rules of Thorbecke's house. I have to say that I came to a surprising conclusion, perhaps even surprising to the minister present here, because the questions'more or less decentralisation' or'must we get rid of it', we can hardly answer when we look at the rules that apply to us. Article 117 of the Municipal Act surprises me: our minister promotes decentralisation for the benefit of municipalities. There is therefore a legal obligation for the Minister to decentralise more and not less. I do not know whether Mr Rombouts is aware of that. The principle that as much as possible should be regulated at a decentralised level also sounds sympathetic. It is also in line with Article 108 of the Constitution, another fundamental rule of our house of Thorbecke. In the first paragraph it is very solemn: the power to regulate and govern the administration of the municipality is left to the municipal administration. Mr. Chairman. The fact that municipalities like to stick to the adagium "decentrally what can, centrally what needs" is understandable. In the Interadministrative Relations Code, with the agreement between Rijk, provinces, municipalities and water boards, the adage is also laid down in Article 2. By participating in that Code, the Empire has agreed to that adage. The same applies to the principle set out in Article 1 of that Code that the greatest possible freedom of policy for local authorities should be achieved. When we look at the VNG position paper, they go one step further: strengthening the autonomy of municipalities. Mr. Chairman. Article 117 entered the law 30 years ago by means of an amendment. This led to the Minister's obligation to promote decentralisation. In the desire expressed in the position paper, that principle actually echoes. But, and then I come to the point that I would like to present to myself, to all of us here and to the Minister: is that still from this time? We live in a special time. The corona crisis requires far-reaching measures. The global warming and the loss of nature and biodiversity threaten our survival. The chance of new zoonoses hitting us is real. Growing inequality defies our solidarity. The young people have checked: no homes, a threatening future for themselves or for their children, a society with a lack of culture and a lack of meaning. What can municipalities, using their own freedom of policy, do to solve such problems? Are the challenges facing the public authorities not such as to raise the question of whether the adage of primarily decentralised and autonomous municipalities is still correct? Is it not becoming increasingly clear that more central regulation and control is needed? The Council of State also points out this in its April briefing: "This call for more central control stems from the large and sometimes conflicting claims to the limited public space available due to the need for much more housing, the spatial effects of the energy transition and the nature conservation challenge as a result of the nitrogen problem." Doesn't the Council of State say here that thinking about the relationship between central-central and the primacy of decentralised policy freedom and autonomy is somewhat behind the facts? The climate crisis and the prevention of a new pandemic require a substantial reduction in our livestock. As far as our group is concerned, it has to be 75%, other groups have said 50%, and some groups that are very keen to grow up have a percentage off it. But no matter how you turn it, the livestock and agricultural areas will disappear. That requires national direction. It's not municipal, it's rural. The land released can be used for nature and housing, but that also requires national direction. In order to achieve climate requirements, more stringent environmental legislation is needed and the Empire will have to take the lead on monitoring and enforcement. That too is central interference. We have to go to green towns and villages, new buildings must be nature-inclusive, with green roofs and facades, and municipalities will have to meet minimum standards for quality greenery per inhabitant. We need to move towards gas-free houses, insulation, sustainability, in short: towards rural building requirements. Mr. Chairman. Those who use their common sense see that there is no escape. To solve today's and future's needs, many regulations and policies are primarily required at central level. A central control and direction will be inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u56	I hear Mr Nicolaï now calling for very strong, national, central guidance in these areas, so as to make this green utopia possible. But where is the citizen in this story? I also know Mr Nicolaï as an advocate of the position of the citizen and his own environment. Does the citizen no longer have any control over his own environment? Can't he give a direction to that anymore? Can only top-down be determined what happens to the living environment in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u57	I hope that Mr Van Hattem is aware that he was elected by citizens. Here, through his participation in this meeting, he also participates in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u58	I was indeed elected by the citizens, but this must also be done at local level. It is precisely at that local level that it is important that input can be provided as directly as possible on the immediate living environment. There, as many things as possible should be as well organized as possible, taking into account local interests. Is Mr Nicolaï going to step over those citizens who have nothing to do with it at local level because of the green utopia? Is there going to be one large, country-by-country customization and one set of national policies, where the local factor no longer counts and where the citizen no longer has a role in his own environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u59	I think that this should be looked at in each legislative area. I'm just trying to point out that those little towns down there can't get what's going on. I'm not just talking about the green task. Let me give you a few examples. You can also take social services. We have also talked about this and we have noticed that you should not have pushed it to those municipalities at all. The question is: what are you doing centrally and what are you doing decentralisedly? The question is not: what are we avoiding from public participation? Centrally you are there, and decentrally the municipal councils are there. But what are the issues that can be dealt with in the municipal councils that can be influenced in a decentralised way if we are faced with such enormous challenges? After this corona crisis, we must also emerge from an economic crisis, we must have a climate law, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u60	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u61	Well, that's the question. You want to put everything under a huge task that is decided upon over the citizens, such as a climate forecast. But then you do step over the citizens as a central government. Then you pass them. I cannot imagine Mr Nicolaï wanting to deal with our citizens in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u62	I object to saying that it is 'over the citizens'. Because if I asked Mr Van Hattem what he wanted, someone could also say that what the PVV wants is 'over the citizens'. No, we decide here and in the Lower House about laws and central control. I am afraid that, in the end, only a very small part of the autonomy of the municipalities will end up in what was thought of 30 years ago, when that adage was laid down in the Municipal Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u63	I would like to support Mr Van Hattem. The picture I'm getting here is that this is called for a planned economy from above. For example, let's take the climate forecast. Mr Nicolaï considers this point to be very important. Then we see on one important part how this now goes in the tension between Rijk and the municipality, when planting all those wind turbines in densely populated area. Is the climate such a subject that Mr Nicolaï says: give it to the Empire; that simply identifies locations and says where they are and one has to swallow it at local level because the task is so great?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u64	Where these locations should be located is a separate question, but the central control of course starts with the question of whether you are going to put it in wind energy, in solar energy or in nuclear energy. I suppose that's not up to the local authorities. That's central. If you choose wind turbines, you will have to decide how many we need in the Netherlands. Then you have to give it a place. You can't leave that to the local authorities. You can find a solution on the distribution in consultation with the local authorities. Eventually there will be a central control. Otherwise, I don't think you'll ever get out. The most important thing I wanted to say is that what was put into the Community law 30 years ago is actually an obligation to decentralisation and that thinking does not exactly fit in with the task we will be facing in the coming years. I assume that Mr Van der Linden agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u65	No, I absolutely disagree with Mr Nicolaï on that. I think that's very useful, especially for that climate map you're sketching. I think it is very good that municipalities are talking about this and that they are looking at it locally. If the city council and the inhabitants there are all huge fans of the Party for the Animals and say "come here with all those wind turbines in our densely populated area, we think that's fantastic for the climate," then they can be placed there. But if those residents say "in our living and living environment, where we live, live, work, we don't want to work," then we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u66	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u67	That's where you see the tension. Isn't it a great thing to do such a job locally? We shouldn't be central to that, should we? Isn't that what makes you unsatisfied at the local level?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u68	Mr Nicolaï, I would like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u69	I don't really know what I'm being asked. I'm not gonna come up with a policy on how to do wind turbines right now. The only thing I have said and I want to stick to is that we must be careful not to say for obvious reasons: everything that takes place at the lowest decentralised level is going well and we must keep it as much as possible. That is what that provision actually says: it should all be decentralised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u70	Thank you. Please continue your speech. Excuse me, another brief afterburner by Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u71	However, the specific question: do you not see the risk that discontent, if there is such a centrally guided direction from the Empire, can be greatly increased from the bottom?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u72	But peace or discontent in society depends on whether the citizen is being heard. If the citizen is heard in parliament, by the Second and First Chambers and by the government, isn't the citizen also heard?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u74	Surely it is not the case that the citizens are only heard when decisions are taken on a decentralised basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u75	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u76	Yes. So my question is whether that adagium is actually a bit out of date. I wanted to ask the Minister how she looks at that. Isn't that adadium, primarily decentralised and strengthening the autonomy of municipalities, in fact somewhat out of date because of the task we are now faced with? I'd like to hear about that. If it is established that in the coming years there will be no escape from more central arrangements and more guidance, then I would like to hear the consequences the government will have for the new Inter-Governmental Relations Code. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely in the light of the awareness that central arrangements and management will have to be the starting point in the coming period that the UNG's emergency call on the financial situation of the municipalities is justified. Involvement of municipalities in the implementation of state schemes should not be increased if adequate financial resources are not provided. It is really bizarre that it has gone so wrong in the past few years. The third paragraph of Article 108 of the Municipal Law expressly states that the costs of carrying out such joint management tasks must be reimbursed by the State to municipalities. Mr. Chairman. The fact that it could have gone wrong was due to the fact that such arrangements had not been properly mapped out as to the financial impact of the implementation. This Chamber too is to blame. Mr Rombouts, but also Mr Van der Burg, Mr Kox and Mr Schalk have already pointed this out. This Chamber agreed with laws which, in good faith, should not have passed the test of feasibility. In fact, the Council of State is rubbing us in again. I quote: 'First of all, decentralisation often does not take sufficient account of the cost of carrying out the tasks to be carried out. The supposed efficiency gains are not sufficiently justified in the explanatory notes to the decentralisation proposals on the basis of studies. This leads to insufficient resources for carrying out the tasks." If we fulfil our duties as chambre de réflexion well, then such laws should not really be introduced here with approval. In fact, they are not sufficiently well motivated. Fortunately, I am also saying this to the minister here present, Mr President, with the introduction of the Environment Act, this Chamber has now done its co-legislative tasks well on this point. It should be a requirement that, independently of the department, the financial resources needed to carry out the tasks which municipalities will have to carry out under the direction of the government be properly examined and substantiated. Is the Minister prepared to include in the Integrated Regulatory Framework and in the Inter-Governmental Assessment Framework the requirement that the CPB or any other independent organisation should assess the financial resources needed to carry out the tasks imposed on municipalities by law? Senator Koole asked the same question. Mr. Chairman. There are a number of other issues that are not yet sufficiently strictly addressed in the Integrated Weighting Framework. If these issues were to be dealt with there, I would also say that to Mr Rombouts, then we as the First Chamber have supervisory criteria that we can look at very carefully. I would like to draw attention to three points in the Council of State information. The first point. In the case of decentralisation, it is important to identify better and objectively in advance what this intention means in concrete terms and what results it aims to achieve. The second point. In any case, the law should contain a clear framework that serves the purpose of making inter-administrative arrangements and laying down control arrangements. The third point. The use of the concept of "joint management" should avoid any clear regulation of administrative responsibility. Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister prepared to include further criteria and requirements in the Integrated Weighting Framework, in the assessment framework or in the regulatory guidance on these three issues? This is not only important for the review by the Council of State, but it is also important if we as the First Chamber are to see whether a legislative proposal that provides for decentralisation is properly justified. Finally, Mr President. The Council of State is talking about a mess in terms of cooperation between municipalities. Many other beautiful words have been used for this. Any revision of the public administration system will take years. I have just heard Mr Otten outline a whole new constitution. Others have talked about state committees. It's gonna take years. During this period local authorities will remain free to use the Common Schemes Act. The Empire can even force municipalities to make such arrangements. This leads to a more democratic deficit, according to the Group of the Party of Animals. Other groups have already pointed this out. The Council of State also points this out. I quote: as a result of such forms of cooperation, democratic legitimacy and acceptance, which are necessary to shape change, were more difficult to achieve. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister agree with us that there is a lack of democratic legitimacy in such cases? Is the Minister prepared to consider in the short term what changes to the law could be made to that deficit? And can that study include the question as to how far it is possible that democratic principles such as the right of initiative or amendment could also apply to the adoption of rules by bodies which have been given regulatory powers under the Law? Mr. Chairman. I look forward with interest to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u77	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Then I give the floor to Mr Schalk, on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Any opportunism is not strange to all of us. This is particularly evident in a debate like today's. Sometimes it is very convenient for the central government to decide how to proceed, and sometimes we prefer it to happen on a decentralised basis. Take COVID-19. If the tension between all these governments turns out to be somewhere, then that's it. The central government comes up with measures. For one reason or another, which I cannot understand, those measures must, if necessary, be devised at the Catshuis on Sunday. As if ministers and secretary of state wouldn't have anything better to do than covert Catshuis override on Sundays. However, as long as no one requests the minutes, the content is kept secret until Monday. It'll be leaked. Then the security regions can at least meet on Monday evening and the chairman of the Security Council can make his point. On Tuesday the press conference will follow and on Wednesday or Thursday the House of Representatives may also participate. Then something like a blanket is laid over the Netherlands. This happens while we know that in some cases it is much more convenient, better or more effective to act regionally or locally. An example today. Mayor Depla of Breda, also chairman of the Committee on Social Impact COVID-19 of the VNG, calls for a stop to project management from the central government and to give up control. What does the Minister think of this appeal, in the light of today's debate? In other words, opportunism. It's just an example, but it's illustrative: sometimes central, then decentralised. Mr. Chairman. The SGP has been clear about this for 103 years: decentralised if possible, central if necessary. To my taste, that's not out of date. That is what is urgently needed. It is a clear adagium and there are also good examples to show that it works that way. For example, local authorities may have a regulatory role, for example in advertising policy. It may also be that the national government gives general guidelines and acts on them provincially or locally, subject to the national rules of the game. In doing so, the higher authorities must prevent them from being over-determinated. For example, the national policy may be that municipalities have to merge to create larger units. Also provincially there can be that wish for various reasons. But it is precisely in those cases that it is important not to impose anything from above, but that the basis itself also comes to choices. Indeed, practice shows that support is important, and this is, of course, true in many areas. Mr. Chairman. The distinction between central and local authorities still has to be made in relation to an important aspect. Decentralisation arises only by creating and assigning a new task or competence to the legislator, or by delegation in which an existing task or power is transferred. This means that the authorities are interconnected and interdependent. The practice is that the central government is often seen as a party that regulates and restricts the financial burden on the local government. This does not always reflect the objective of decentralisation, usually with a view to more effective and efficient governance. Perhaps this is partly due to the lack of those democratic powers that we talked about earlier today in the case of regionalisation. For me, however, the question is whether a coordinating minister should be the solution or whether, as has been suggested today, we should even go to a regional parliament. I don't think the latter is a passable route. Very often reference is made to a lack of administrative culture and executive power, for example in municipalities. The question is, however, whether this is always right. Are there any indications that the legislator has not been sufficiently aware of everyday practice? What is the Minister's view on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u79	I was also mentioned indirectly about the regional parliaments. According to Mr Schalk, that was not a passable route. What I fully agree with Mr Schalk at the beginning of his speech is that the covid crisis has shown that things that are not working very well in the Netherlands have come to light. One of the most important problems we have seen is that it has gone wrong in the security regions, which are supposed to adopt policies after the first wave and of course are not democratically legitimized. When the security regions took over in the summer of last year and we were going to pursue a differentiated policy, nobody followed it. 'Cause everybody's thinking, "Mayor Bruls? What's that got to do with me? I never chose that man." The awareness of these regions does not exist among the inhabitants of the Netherlands and they do not make themselves felt bound by it either. I think that regional... We've all seen it. The problems are becoming regional; we are really hearing this from the left to the right from all the speakers. Then you're going to have to steer that regionally in a democratically legitimized manner. I would just like to point out that the Thorbecke Constitution, the House of Thorbecke we are all talking about, was also introduced about overnight, because there was a great deal of pressure from abroad and there was a need to act quickly. Now we have covid and a new cabinet formation...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u80	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u81	Let us now modernise this, my appeal to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u82	Ah, a call to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u83	There were some assumptions in Mr Otten's speech, including about the regional parliament. I'm gonna have to let him down. I did not refer to his contribution, but to the one Mr Otten was not yet present with, namely Mr Koole. At that time, we talked about regionalisation. One of the suggestions was: don't you need a regional parliament... That is quite different, because I did not understand from Mr Koole that he wanted to abolish the municipalities and the provinces. I see him shaking no, so I guess I'm right. That is a very different story from the regions Mr Otten has just mentioned. He cut the Netherlands in five pieces, in a certain way joined together. It looked a bit like what Mr Nicolaï did. It was as if they said: "We know from the government how to do it, so we put a new frame over the Netherlands and that will make everyone happy." I wonder if that's the route. And where did I show up with the regional parliament? We have local and provincial authorities, and we have regional parliaments to do. I thought it was Mr Van der Voort who told us that there are 1,200 different regional compositions. I shouldn't think about it: 1,200 parliaments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u84	I can tell Mr Schalk that I have taken note of Mr Koole's speech. Adding another layer of governance to what we already have is, I think, the last thing we need to do right now. That is why we are not in favour of abolishing the municipalities, as you have just tried to silence me. No, we say: abolish the provinces, merge them into five districts and let that be democratically legitimized. That seems to me to be much more a solution for the twenty-first century than an extra layer in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u85	I understand what Mr Otten means. He says: make five provinces or regions instead of twelve provinces. That is all well and good, but that does not solve the problem that we were talking about today, namely the problem that there are all kinds of regional links, up to 1,200 pieces, which in one way or another have no democratic legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u86	I'm gonna turn the clock back on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u87	That's very good chairman, then I'll go on. I wanted to give an example of what we have been faced with in recent weeks, namely the problems in the field of youth care and in the field of youth ggz. They've been mentioned a few times today. Five years ago, youth care became decentralised. That led not only to more bureaucracy, but also to a screaming shortage of nurses, psychologists and psychiatrists in that youth ggz. And it's actually gotten a lot worse, we were able to read two weeks ago. Many children's and youth psychiatrists are considering completely stopping begging children. The reasons have increased regulatory pressure and cumbersome bureaucracy since youth care was moved from the Empire to the municipalities. I know that this problem is not on the Minister's side, and I also know that the problems of young people have been deepened by the corona state. And I also know very well that Secretary of State Blokhuis has promised EUR 613 million extra. On average, this is less than 2 million per municipality. I'm not going into any of that right now. The deeper question on the basis of this extreme example is: how can this happen? I ask the Minister, but also ourselves in the self-reflection. What is wrong with such decentralisation, which creates such enormous problems? And what is the solution if such big problems arise? What really needs to be done? Governance? Money? Face? Balance between task and possibilities? Equipment? Or is there a more fundamental issue and perhaps it is about actually giving responsibility? And then you come to a deeper core: then you need trust. With Mr Rombouts, I also call for self-reflection in this Chamber. We shouldn't just say to the government: what have you all been up to? No, we have to ask ourselves questions, too. How did we let this happen? What has our own role been? It's about the role-playing. I can reassure Mr Rombouts in this respect: the draft report of the conversation was in the papers of the College of Seniors. One more thing was added to what we discussed this afternoon: there should also be reflection on our own role within the political groups. So let us not just put that down somewhere else, but also pick it up ourselves. And, Mr. Chairman, we're far from here. The large decentralisations of the past, particularly in the social field, have had a major impact on local authorities. But there is much more to come, such as the Environment Act, the unfeasible climate goals, the energy transition. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats realises that it is not easy. My illustrious predecessor Senator Holdijk put it in his maiden speech on 1 June 1986 as follows: "It is so often in our lives and also in politics. We can sometimes indicate about how not to do so, but it is much harder to say how it should ideally. That science, that experience, requires restraint." We're in that dilemma today, too. I look forward to the Minister's answers, in particular the answer to the question of whether there are any guiding statements that are relevant for the coming period. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u88	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I'm going to suspend for the scheduled lunch break until 4:15 p.m. We shall then begin with the last speaker, Mr Raven. Immediately afterwards, I will give the floor to the Minister for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u89	I give the floor to Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot of discussion over the course of the day. I had the pleasure of listening in on the train this morning, because I was a little late for which I apologize. But I did bring the whole debate and I could listen to it. Much has already been discussed, and then it is always difficult to bring something new at the end of the debate. But I'm still gonna try to make it work. I'll let you know in a minute. This is the debate on the relationship between central government and local authorities. No decisions are taken. We've been at it since 9:00 this morning anyway. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for her presence, despite the fact that we are not making any decisions today. But I think it is an important debate. I referred to the contribution of the OSF, because we are not taking decisions today, as "Mijmeringen on the Decentralised Unitary State." And, Mr President, under that mom, I want to do my part. The Public Administration Council, the ROB, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the VNG, as well as the Council of State are unusually critical of the state of the decentralised unitary state in their reactions and reports. The ROB notes that there has been a growing feeling of unease and uncertainty about administrative and financial relations. This discontent exists on two sides: not only in the local authorities, but also in the central government. The ROB and the VNG observe quite a few shortcomings of the central government towards the local authorities; shortcomings that have been implemented in recent years with the agreement of the Second and Upper Chambers. For example, the ROB notes that the central government is at odds with its own laws, for example by regularly putting aside Article 108 of the Municipal Law, thus ignoring the autonomy of the local authorities. Financial freaks like the scaling-up discount in brackets: they have to stop immediately, if it is up to the OSF; but I have already heard that signal this morning: the funding of the assistance, the unsubstantiated cuts in social decentralisation or shopping with other people's wallets through the Wmo subscription rate imposed on municipalities are indicative of the powerlessness of the central government on this point. And the question to the Minister is: does the Minister recognize this impotence? For the adoption of previously failing policies, i.e. before 2015 in the social domain, the municipalities were saddled with non-substantiated government austerities from 2015 onwards, without setting measurable targets and without adequate budgeting. The Empire, as it were, threw the problems over the fence at the municipalities, with the announcement: figure it out and solve it. The municipalities were prepared to relieve the Empire of its problems in the social domain, based on a certain degree of overconfidence and overestimation of their capacities, based on previous decentralisations. This job was taken up by the municipalities and it led to better, more efficient, faster and more balanced services in the three policy areas Wmo, participation and care - here and there with the necessary comments, but generally well taken up by those municipalities. And instead of rewarding the municipalities for this, they got the financial lid on their noses. The question to the Minister is: why weren't these municipalities rewarded for that job instead of financially punishing them? Year after year, the municipalities were burdened with huge deficits, rising to billions of euros, which forced them to interfere heavily with their reserves, and necessary investments and other important matters to be postponed. They did not receive adequate help from The Hague. For a long time they were forced to beg like a lapdog to get the necessary extra resources. "Build it," they said to get money from The Hague. The Hague windmills are grinding slowly, because even now the central government is studying a solution to the financial problems. My question to the Minister is: how long is this study going to take? All this happened with the approval and knowledge of this Parliament. Mr. Chairman. The Public Administration Council, as well as the VNG, also notes that the balance between central and local authorities has been lost and that relations have been lost. This is partly reflected in the financial problems of municipalities in particular. For the Public Administration Board, this is not just a matter of money, the real cause lies in disbalance between tasks, organisations, powers and funding. I quote from the report: because of this imbalance, there is not enough room for local authorities to make their own policy choices and their ability to act is limited. According to the Council, this puts at risk the learning capacity and effectiveness of the government as a whole. This has an impact on addressing challenges and providing adequate facilities and security to citizens and society. The question to the Minister is: how does the government resolve this imbalance? All this with the knowledge and approval of this Parliament. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State's gonna do a little bit more than that. Quote: "In the case of social decentralisation, there has been a lack of thorough and essential preliminary work on the expected results and the administrative and financial framework conditions to be met. However, the need for this was all the more evident because this transfer of tasks led to a new understanding of the relationship between government and citizens. Against this background, the department previously advocated self-control and restraint with new regulations in the early years following the transfer of these tasks. But that restraint, according to the Council of State, has not been exercised. This has unnecessarily burdened the inter-administrative relations." In other words, Parliament has often sat in the seat of local authorities and this has led to major problems for municipalities. Mr. Chairman. Previous speakers, including Mr Van der Burg, Mr Rombouts, but also Mr Nicolaï, have pointed out that self-reflection of this Parliament is necessary. I therefore see self-reflection as the most important aspect of today's debate, which we should apply in order to avoid this kind of problem in the future. That is why today this Parliament should be accountable to the local authorities, apologize and, for example, give itself a licence of inability on the issue of central and decentralised cooperation over recent years. Municipalities should be compensated once for the deficits they have had in recent years. Butter on the fish, pay for all deficits in one go. This is demonstrated by the Municipal Law Article 108. Previous speakers have also referred to this. How is the administration of the Netherlands today? A question that concerns the social field. For example, the website governmentvannu.nl offers a number of leading directors and professionals the opportunity to reflect on the changed interadministrative and financial relationships in the Netherlands. What's the status of this inter-administrative cooperation? We are struggling, according to one of the directors, with our order in the house of Thorbecke. Does our old inter-administrative division still fit in with the social challenges we face? State law still complies well with this system in the basics, but more coherent decisions need to be taken precisely over these different levels of government. The Netherlands is too neat in the administrative sense. Government layers don't touch each other very much. The Council of State also notes the need for changing cooperation between public authorities: "More order will help public administration. This starts with the question of which tasks should be decentralised and not decentralised. If this requires cooperation, this cooperation should take place in congruent regions. Finally, differentiation may offer a solution How does the Minister view this proposal? Mr. Chairman. In order to take steps and improve cooperation, the Council of State advises the Public Administration Board to appoint in the short term a delta commissioner who comes within one year with the elaboration of a coherent package of measures, to address the underlying causes of imbalance and to ensure clear rules of play that all parties know how to play. Anticipating this, several innovative theses have now emerged in order to renew cooperation between central and local authorities and to strengthen their capacity to act. The motto here is less to adapt system technical protocols and more to bet on an empathic government, i.e. denationalising the government and regaining the trust of our citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u91	Would you like to finish up, Mr. Raven? Your time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u92	I have half a page left, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u93	You've signed up for ten minutes. They're over. Perhaps you could shorten it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u94	I would like to conclude, building on what I said before, by mentioning that last year there was a study group on inter-administrative and financial relations, consisting of leading administrative experts, who made an important proposal. Last year, the study group said: "There are major challenges on the social agenda. Those authorities, tasks and regions have gone beyond them. How do we fight the housing shortage? How do we switch to a sustainable energy system? And how do we ensure that vulnerable citizens in the ggz get the help they need? All these kinds of tasks call for a meaningful role of the government. A government that can respond to changing circumstances and provides effective connections to both residents and private and civil society organisations so that they too can contribute." Finally, Mr President. The Independent Senate Group has tabled a motion on this matter. I will submit it in the second term, so that Members can take note of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u95	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. We now need the government's response in the first term. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually wanted to start by thanking the Chamber for having this debate together today. A great deal has already been said by all the speakers. You have taken the initiative in this debate. Intergovernmental relations and the division of tasks between governments are important issues. This is certainly true at a time when we all see that governments need each other badly, and that this cooperation is important. I would also like to thank all the speakers today. They have all provided different but equally thorough analyses of their views on the cooperation between central and local authorities. You have shown interest in this, and I also think we appreciate our public administration. This is, of course, seen in the Netherlands by our fellow governments. I am speaking through you, Mr President. And that's a good thing, because otherwise I would have to say "My gentlemen" all the time today. I thought that was special, but that aside. You were also critical, and sometimes self-critical. That was true, for example, of Mr Rombouts. The word "self-reflection" has fallen a lot. That's a word that falls more often these days anyway. Some also doubted the usefulness and necessity of the debate, partly because the cabinet is decommissioned and we are awaiting the outcome of a formation. I think it is valuable to have that debate now. At least I'm happy to do it. I think it was Mr Schalk who said that it was value towards the future, because you are sending a signal at a time of formation. Others can take advantage of that. One thing is certain: we do not know who, we do not know in what composition, but there will be a next cabinet and then there will be a Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the end, it is not at all relevant who that is; it is relevant what the Minister of Foreign Affairs is doing and how he can do it. So thank you for having this debate. I wanted to divide it as follows. Just as several speakers have done, I want to reflect more generally on the subject. After that, I would like to address the questions along a few lines. I have tried to get some red threads out of the speakers' input. A lot of questions have been asked, despite the fact that it is not a decision-making debate. Three themes jump out. Those themes are in line with what I want to say myself. The first issue concerns the financial position of municipalities and the related implementing power of the municipalities, or the lack thereof, as some have analysed. The second issue is regionalisation and the question of democratic legitimacy, which has also been discussed a great deal. The third issue is what is going on in the area of decentralisation and the role of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in that area. Then, of course, many other questions have also been asked. I have it easily but under the heading "other." I do not do justice to the importance of these subjects. Then in a general sense. I think it is good to note that we live happily in a prosperous country. The children in the Netherlands are among the happiest in the world. Confidence in government and institutions is relatively high. We should be happy about that. But a good public administration is, of course, essential. I think everyone has underlined that today. We also know that we are now having a lot of discussion in politics in The Hague on a number of issues. How do we work together? What kind of governance culture do we want? How can you be more responsive, even to the wishes of the Dutch, whether they are citizens of the municipality, inhabitants of the province or simply Dutch people in general? I've been trying to get this whole cabinet period back on Thorbecke. Thorbecke is an incredibly important anchor for all of us. By the way, someone, Mr Otten, wanted to redecorate the whole house of Thorbecke. Of course, that is possible, but Thorbecke has already stressed the importance of public administration and has always said: it is not self-evident; public administration always needs attention. So you can never really rest on your laurels. You have to work to ensure that the public administration is of good quality and remains for us in the Netherlands. If you then look at what we are all struggling with now, then you must also see that the world has of course changed completely, apart from corona and the restoration of corona, which requires a great deal from the governments. I refer to climate change and the climate targets. We know what problems there are in building houses and the housing market. There is still a great deal to be done in the social domain too, and I will come back to the issues that have been raised. People who depend on the help of the government, temporary or permanent, need attention. This means that we need governments that are equipped for their tasks and their responsibilities. Those governments are there, because they are working every day in the municipalities, in the provinces and in the waterboards. These governments all relate to the government and the government relates to them. It is very often also a question of'maybe' we should talk about it even more, because these governments are always wondering whether they have been able to involve the people for whom they are all doing it. Do these people feel included in the decisions that concern them? Are they actually being listened to on the front.............. and at the back............................................................................................................................................................... We have now seen a lot of analyses, many of which have also been cited today by, among others, the Council of State and the Public Administration Council. In fact, these analyses raise increasing concerns about the accumulation of tasks, particularly in local government, and about the distortion between the tasks and the responsibilities involved, and on the other hand the financial means to carry out these tasks properly. I have said it before and mentioned it in the documents sent to the Chamber: I recognise that the financial position of municipalities is under pressure. It has certainly not become easier, now that they are also suffering from the corona crisis, and soon the consequences and its recovery. In addition, I have also heard a lot of that today... takes a certain inconvenience over the position of the region the upper hand. What exactly is this region? How does it fit into our administrative order? We all see that with many and complex tasks, there is no other way than to seek cooperation. Sometimes this cooperation is regional, because it can be geographically logical. Managing in collaboration is something we can do quite well in the Netherlands. With this you can increase the impact force and get things done, but you must be careful not to lose the inhabitants or council members in the meantime, because the distance becomes too large and one experiences losing control of what is decided there. If there are many different forms of cooperation, this may indeed lead to fragmentation rather than an integrated approach that you would much rather see. So it is quite right to take a good look at that. If you put the magnifying glass on the public administration, as we do with each other here today, you can see that there has been a lot of attention to efficiency and sometimes too little attention to the human dimension. Here and there we have lost sight of them. I come to speak about this in a number of decentralisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u97	Perhaps I am failing the Minister by asking a question already, but I hear an analysis of the regions and the lack of involvement of council members in particular, an analysis which we have all done a little bit. Can the Minister indicate whether an effort has been made by the Ministry of the Interior, or by the Minister himself, to improve this? Is there a vision for improving that? We can all share the analysis, together with the various gremia that have just been cited, but is there any further thought from the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u98	The answer is yes. If Mr Van Hattem is okay with that, I would like to go into this further, when I come back to the region and, in particular, to the democratic legitimacy, which I consider to be very important and which I have also been paying attention to during this cabinet period. I will certainly come back to this subject. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to finish my own introduction. What can you learn from this when you look back? The human size I mentioned. What we also very much want, and what is, of course, a direct consequence of what we have to observe in the childcare allowance affair, is that there is no longer a wrong door where people are knocking. If people need help and ask for help, they shouldn't be sent to another door. So don't: you're not right here, try it there. You don't want that approach from a government. In order to achieve this, as is the case with the cabinet, but I hear you say that, in fact, all of us must really be at the forefront of the decision-making process on laws. If you have ambitions and want to achieve wishes in a political sense, then we have to ask ourselves even more and better whether the fellow governments that are then charged with them are sufficiently equipped or in a position to actually fulfil that responsibility in implementation in terms of the instruments they need for that, the people they need for that and financially. A lot of times that's connected. We can also learn from what did not go well with the legislation that came to the municipalities from the various ministries in The Hague and from what did not go well with the decentralisations we have seen over the last ten years. And that's what we need to learn from, by the way. This indeed affects the role that a Minister for Foreign Affairs can and should play in this. I'd love to get back to that. In the end, I think that this ministry and the minister responsible for it should always take the interests of the co-governments very seriously into account. I have tried to do that too, and I will say a little more about it later. The main points are, as I look back, the decentralisations in 2015. Those, of course, were quite a challenge, even then. Even then it was already seen that they were big steps. For example, there was concern about the continuity of care, insofar as that care was decentralised. But the municipalities have actually taken on these tasks very well. At that time, there was no continuity. That concern proved not to be justified, fortunately, because the municipalities at that time started to work with a lot of effort and a lot of energy. That is what we are still seeing today, with a lot of passionate aldermen, councilmen and civil servants all working hard for the inhabitants of their congregation. At the same time, and yet, I think you should see that there are real problems. So is the analysis and the reports that are there. There are serious problems. It should be noted that at the time there was too optimistic thought about these decentralisations, especially about their extent and also about the speed with which they were thought to be achieved. Some of the decentralisations were the result of formations. In the formation a decentralisation was agreed, the cabinet was committed and implemented as agreed at the formation, including the corresponding financial frameworks. They were very hard and very taskful for the implementation of the decentralisations in question. I think a lesson is: don't do that too fast. Key in advance really better whether it is feasible and whether the financial frameworks allow it. A second problem with decentralisation is the division of responsibility between the state and the municipalities. The State Commission for the Reform of the Parliamentary System noted that it is difficult for the Empire to let go after a decentralisation has been carried out. The Empire tends to always steer centrally and give urgent incentives, even if something is decentralised. That's what we call system responsibility. That sometimes goes too far and then the Empire is too energetic, too active and too soloist in adjusting what needs to be done locally. This means that the co-governments have less and less opportunities to choose their own design and deliver customization that suits them, and to control the costs in a way that suits how they can and want to do so. Thirdly, there has often been insufficient consideration of whether all municipalities were well equipped for these new tasks. You see big differences. In some municipalities things are going very well, in other municipalities things are not going very well or less well. When you decentralize, you expect the same from all the municipalities. It just doesn't seem possible in practice. That could have something to do with the scale. Often it has to do with the scale, but not just with it. It also has to do with the fact that there are differences between municipalities. This brings me to the impact of all decentralisation on the fellow governments. I can tell here, but also in the municipalities themselves, that there is consensus that too much is expected of the municipalities. More is expected than they can deliver within the arrangements we had devised with each other. It is therefore not sustainable either, and it cannot go on sustainably in this way. While I express a great deal of appreciation for what those congregations are doing, I also see that they are struggling and looking for other ways to solve it. For example, they are increasingly engaging in regional cooperation in order to find a scale appropriate to the task. In part, they feed on reserves. That's really unwelcome. Sometimes they do not even get access to certain basic services, although of course they do not want to do so at all. They also wonder, with regard to the level of provision they want to offer in their municipality, whether they actually still have policy freedom after following all the instructions from The Hague. We didn't appoint those municipalities to become some kind of executive office for the Empire. It was a question of decentralization, not a question of concentration of national policies. We should have chosen to do so. That has been mentioned a few times here today. But that wasn't the choice. In this cooperation between the Empire and the co-governments, especially the municipalities, we need each other very much. You know, sometimes that goes really well. For example around corona we have been able to make very good appointments. This cooperation is crucial. But sometimes it hardens and collides, and it's a lot about money and how we can solve it, and it's much less about the human dimension and quality of service or about the execution of important tasks that we're talking about. I told you that there is so much going on around the energy transition, housing, nitrogen, the undermining crime, so much so you can call a lot of topics that we have to. I think that sometimes a regional scale is more appropriate to that kind of task, but on that scale we do not have democratic governance in Thorbecke's house. And if you do not have democratic governance with a mandate of your own, then there is really no way to be sure that you have properly organised that democratic control. If you want to create it, you have to think about it. Then you also have to make agreements on how that democratic legitimacy works. I think that we all have an interest in ensuring that it does happen, that it is very important that we succeed in ensuring that, in the coming period, the authorities which have certain tasks are well equipped to carry out these tasks properly. These responsibilities must be balanced with the instruments and resources they have. We need to go over there and organize it in such a way that there's room for that human size. Finally, I would like to look forward to the next cabinet. I would say that it is crucial that a next cabinet invests in the public administration, in the intergovernmental cooperation of the co-governments, precisely because of the substantive ambitions that I also expect in a subsequent cabinet. The things that we have worked on in this cabinet, the care, the housing market, the climate, are going on and are actually asking for good cooperation, for more cooperation, for better implementation and for that human measure. I really think it is my job as Minister of State to act as guardian of the local authorities and to ensure that this is done better. In 2019 I already sent a letter about the future of the public administration to both Chambers. As far as I am concerned, it lays the foundations for that. I have asked the Council of State, together with the umbrella bodies of the local authorities, to provide information on the development of the intergovernmental relations of this cabinet period, as well as to identify the issues and bottlenecks that need to be addressed with priority by a subsequent cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u99	Mr Van Hattem. Or would you like to finish another sentence, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u100	Yeah, if that's okay. Or, no, let's do some interruptions first, because I have a little more than one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u101	I took up what the Minister said about strengthening intergovernmental ambitions and challenges. In particular, I see that the IBP, the Inter-Governmental Programme, is full of these challenges. These tasks are mainly imposed top-down. That's how the fellow governments experience it. They literally call that "a The Hague party." Does the Minister mean to say that there is still more work to be done on this IBP statement, which is the declaration of the Inter-Governmental Programme, in the next cabinet period? Should these tasks be imposed on the municipalities by the government agreement, even more from the Ministry? Is that the form of intergovernmental cooperation that the Minister envisages? Or are we seriously considering the role of local democracy so that it can abandon its own ambitions and programmes and, if necessary, find the Empire for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u102	I would like to thank Mr Van Hattem for his question. He also mentioned it in his first term, and I believe in connection with issues such as the City Deals and the Regional Deals. From the context, I noted that Mr Van Hattem is not so enthusiastic about this. The Inter-Governmental Programme was not imposed by The Hague, the ministries, the cabinet or other governments. It was established in consultation with the co-governments. We have negotiated and discussed this with a very large delegation from the cabinet and with all the co-governments and their domes very extensively and for a long time. Why? We didn't do that because they didn't agree with what we wanted about climate objectives, but to talk to each other about how we could set it up so that there would be room for it at water boards, provinces and municipalities. In this respect, I think the IBP is an example of the form and structure in which you would like to do it. At that time, it was a lot of money that was available. Afterwards, you can discuss whether the funds were quite the same as the euro and at the same time the very big challenges, for example about the energy transition. That is exactly my call for the coming period: do not be too optimistic about it. Don't think: we have billions, so we can do all this. You have to realize that if you dissect the billions to the different municipalities, provinces and water boards, the amount per government is not really that substantial. The difference of opinion was not at all about the task as such, but about the elaboration and whether we have enough money to live up to our ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u103	Then it always remains the question whose ambition, whose task it is. In my opinion, the ambitions and tasks come not so much from the municipalities and regions, but above all from the Ministry. This is also apparent from last year's research. To realise these ambitions and challenges, packages of money are deposited in the form of Regional Deals. A few tens of millions are being moved towards the municipalities. If the municipalities move towards the task laid down by the Empire through the IBP, they can make use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u104	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u105	I would just like to reflect on what the Minister said about why the IBP would be desirable. I see it as a form in which the representatives of the people actually pass, because it is regulated in the administrative circle and through the domes. Secondly, it is also about the top-down and not about the tasks of the municipalities themselves. I would like to give an example of this. Such a Region Deal...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u106	No, your question is getting too long. An interruption is a short question. You know that. It is also in the Rules of Procedure. I have to maintain the Rules of Procedure. I'm the referee. I have to whistle by the book, as I recently learned. So I do. You are entitled to a brief question of interruption. You will also have a second term, in which you will be able to debut all your reflections more than once, within the speaking time you register. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u107	I have just used less than half of my recorded speaking time, so that will be... I recognize it...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u108	I understand your argument, but I'm going to go into that. We do not cut the speaking time off with the interruption times. If that's what you think, we have a misunderstanding. Then we need to talk about it. That is not the case, so you cannot rely on that either. I would like to, but then we have to change the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u109	I don't need a whole conversation about interruptions and time. I just wanted to tell you what my reflections were. I have plenty of room to make my point. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is really the intention to deal with co-governments in this way and to continue to take all these challenges from the national government in such an IBP structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u110	The IBP was valid for this cabinet period. I think it worked quite well as a vehicle, because we did not agree on the challenges, such as the energy transition and other challenges. We have gradually discovered that the ambitions were sometimes too high in relation to the resources that were opposed to them. It is not up to me how this is done in a subsequent period. I can only give suggestions and lessons from what happened during this period and in previous periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u111	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u112	From documents I see among other things in the province, I understand that we are already working on an "IBP 2.0," so let's just say. So there is already a lot of talk about it. However, it has also been said in this IBP with regard to finance that the current outstanding accounts should only help local authorities. Can the Minister indicate to what extent this ambition has been achieved? Because I'm wondering if that's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u113	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u114	That is a very general question. It's actually very simple. We don't have elections all at once. The municipal elections have been the longest, or the closest, it's just how you look at them. In between we have done the provinces and your Chamber has also been elected. There have been national elections. New programmes are therefore being adopted at different times. We will soon have a new government agreement here with a new cabinet. The same thing happens in provinces and that happens in municipalities. And yet you have to anchor that partnership with each other. This was done in the Inter-Governmental Program in a new cabinet. For example, provinces, municipalities and water boards can match the ambitions of a new cabinet and also the resources made available by a new cabinet. Again, it's not like the municipalities, the provinces or the waterboards are thinking: it's weird that they suddenly want to do something about water, about living, about climate or about other specific tasks. Those problems were already there for a long time and that's what they were doing a long time ago. A new cabinet can only add something extra, sometimes in the financial sense. That was the case four years ago. In fact, I think that many of the fellow governments are jumping into a new cabinet, in an even better way than has been done so far, to anchor and improve those ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u115	I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u116	In the knowledge that the Minister is going to discuss regionalisation and democratic legitimacy further in her second or third block, I would like to make the following comment. In her introduction, she raised a number of very crucial issues, which were already part of the debate. That is why I come forward. I have a feeling that she's more or less hung on to two thoughts. On the one hand, I hear the Minister say that these regional links are important. On the other hand, the Minister also mentioned in her general introduction: they do not actually have a democratic legitimacy and so we need to do something about the provinces and municipalities. But can you indicate a direction for how that might be possible? It's almost impossible to put that together, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u117	I shall come back to that in detail in a moment. The following is something I would like to say in a general sense. That's what I just argued. I quoted Thorbecke's house, because it concerns the governments where we have organised that democratic legitimacy, I think. However, there are many tasks which cannot be dealt with precisely at the level of the province or at the level of one municipality. You're gonna need a bigger scale and cooperation. I don't think it's crazy if you're a little flexible in that. So I am actually in favour of allowing room for this and allowing for differentiation. I think there should always be an eye for the question of how to translate that back into the underlying democratic control. How do you help guess, States et cetera to get a grip on that? I was just wondering about an interrupting debate. I forgot which one that was. It sounded like drivers would mostly run for themselves. I was an alderman myself. As an alderman, you have two goals. You're trying to do for your congregation the business you need in your portfolio, so for the people who live in your congregation. The second objective is, of course, to take the council well with it. This means informing the board and obtaining support and support in the board. So I have a very different picture of that driving than the image that was just sketched here. You don't control it. You're not there for the other drivers. You are there for the inhabitants and the council is the representative of the people, the representation of those inhabitants. Where the scale or the task as such requires cooperation, you must therefore have more attention to it than is sometimes the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u118	I understand the trip to those aldermen. I don't think I'd have mentioned that myself. But I understand what the Minister is saying. However, in a partnership you have a number of aldermen who all have to reconnect to their municipal councils. Then you're gonna get in trouble. So should you not say that regionalisation should prevent too much decision-making power from being there, that it should be mainly executive and that the legitimacy from the central government, or well organized from that local or provincial government?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u119	Yes, but in fact Mr Schalk himself says that it depends on what task is addressed with this cooperation. Depending on that, you can also make choices in it. I do not think there is any mention of one size fits all there either. But we can fall back on what's going on. I think that's very important. So I would not argue that we would no longer need one of these levels of government. I think you should make the most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u120	I hear the Minister say a number of times: if you ask me, I would very much like a next cabinet to do this and that. Of course, it would be appropriate for the outgoing minister not to make himself bigger than she is. It also suits the minister not to be smaller than she is. I hope that a next cabinet will be there tomorrow, but it could be there in six months, let me just say. A lot of things we can't leave behind. There are also a lot of non-controversial points that could indeed be taken up by this outgoing cabinet. A number of colleagues have made specific suggestions for this. I would like to ask the Minister, in the course of his speech, to give particular attention to what she wants to do now, during this period, and how she responds to suggestions made by Mr Koole, Mr Rombouts and other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u121	I'm definitely gonna do that. I'll get back to you on my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u122	I hear the Minister say a number of times in her reply that there must be an eye for human standards. Of course, there's no one to object to that. I think that's very nice, too. I'm just trying to reflect that on my input on public value creation. My question is actually: does the minister mean by "human measure" that public value creation? Or is that a different one, perhaps a broader one?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u123	I have, of course, listened with interest to Mr Van der Voort's speech. I found that interesting. I've been thinking about it, too. I think that's probably part of the same thing. It's gotta be. Because what is the added value? That is the public value Mr van der Voort has mentioned. That's what he's worried about, of course, is that it's about people and that it's something that serves a general, public interest, but it has to end up with people. I think we've found together that if you lose sight of the human dimension, you can't actually create that added value. "Human size" is also a complicated concept. It sounds so easy, and of course it isn't. It is, of course, very complicated to organise it in a good way, so that ultimately the individuals involved feel that it is about them, while they are often large systems and it is about a lot of money. A good example of this is that you know that people can't always use it when they can only ask for something via a screen. There's got to be a window somewhere or someone picking up a phone. This can sometimes be very valuable, despite the fact that it is not always maximum efficient. But I think that is a characteristic of cases where public value is created and human measure is monitored. In addition, you must be willing to invest in it, despite the fact that you are losing something in efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u124	I think it's in that vein too. If you are already on a route, then the human dimension is important, and also, of course, accessibility and service of the government. So I'm thinking in the same vein myself. I think Mark Moore went to the Ministry of the Interior in 2019. I am therefore very curious to see how your officials will further shape this in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u125	They are always open to ideas and inspiration, even from outside. Mr President, I should like to conclude the introduction. Well, that's the kind of look I'd like to look forward to. After that, I'd like to address all the questions that have been asked. I agree with everyone who says that the financial basis of the municipalities must be put in order. There are all kinds of ongoing discussions, I've been through them this whole cabinet period, too, about the finances in the social domain. I think that we really need to restore the balance in administrative relations between the tasks and the financial resources. We really have to look at that without taboos. Secondly, a little bit more with the look on it: how should you do it in new cases? I think that if a new task is to be invested in another government, what I would call an impact analysis should be carried out at the front. It should address the following questions: what type of task can be invested in that municipality or province, what choices should we make in the administrative and financial sense, so how much money is needed to do this right? Then you have to work it out by task. You also have to decide in advance: what is it really, in what way do we give this task to the other government and is there really a policy space for, for example, the municipality when it comes to a municipal task?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u126	The Minister has come about to the end of her first block, I understand. In that first block there were already a lot of comments about finance, region, position and so on in the general sense. I had a tendency to go into it, but I knew there would be next blocks and so I'll save it for a while. The minister also said in the first block that it is crucial for the upcoming cabinet to invest in the co-governments and that she sees herself as a guardian of those co-governments in the house of Thorbecke. My question to the Minister is what that means at this stage, with a outgoing cabinet and a formation running. What does it mean for the specific role of the Demissionary Minister of the Interior as guardian of the co-governments to ensure that investment is indeed made in those co-governments, which are crucial? Can the Minister explain, for example, what she has given to the informant as a formation file on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u127	I shall come back to this later to discuss it in more detail, also on the occasion of the Özütok motion from the House of Representatives which I thought Mr Koole raised. I'll deal with that in a moment. In short, it means that I, together with the fellow governments, have considered the question: how should you do that and how do we ensure that it arrives on the table at the right time where an informant and negotiating party will talk about it at that time? Of course, we are not yet in the formation, but we are making sure that we are ready, that we have that material and that we are bringing together the Empire, the BZK and the other co-governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u128	The Minister says she will come back shortly to the motion from the House of Representatives, but still for my good understanding at the moment. I believe that this motion was tabled in October and there have been discussions. I understand that, at the moment, there is no file in the Home Office that could be handed over to the informant on this matter, which the Minister himself calls 'crucial', investing in co-governments. For the minister as the guardian of these local authorities, that should mean that it has to lie down. If that is not the case, what are at least the main lines of what is to come in?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u129	If an informant is appointed tomorrow who invites me to come by the day after tomorrow, I'll have everything ready. The same applies to the co-governments. I actually outlined it the other way around: the formation phase has not yet been such that the question has been asked, but of course we are ready for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u130	Mr Koole for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u131	Okay. I understand the Minister is happy to be ready, so the file is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u132	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u133	Can the Minister now, or immediately at the specific answers, outline what is in that file on these points?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u134	Yeah, I'd like to do that when I answer the specific questions. But in general terms, it is what I wanted to outline now. The finances need to be in order. There must be a balance between the challenges and the means involved. We would also like more time to be taken in the front and better thought. I just mentioned this impact analysis: what is the task, what instruments are needed and what financial space is needed? And we also need to be clear and transparent on the front side about expectations over and over again. I think that is part of what Mr Koole was just talking about. We see that many of these challenges are at these different levels, and that there must be and must be agreements about this cooperation. After all, with all these big questions, it is not that one government layer can solve it on its own. You need each other. I think that's what we've seen in the past cabinet period. If we are really going to sit down with each other, we will also be able to define those common goals, and in them the roles that the different governments have. But that has to be done, because we have to realize that you can only do it together. That old adage of once was: either you go over it or you don't go over it. That can no longer be done, because there is not one exclusive layer for an exclusive task. Finally, the question about that region and the remark that we really need to look at it; we were just talking about it. I say again: I would really like to leave room for that. But I do think it would help to look for a more congruent arrangement of regional cooperation. The Council of State has also drawn attention to this. And sometimes a region can indeed overlap with another existing link, for example with a province. There are provinces in the Netherlands that are also largely in the form of regional cooperations there. Then take advantage of that province before that. I am very much in favour of this and the Council of State has suggested that possibility. Finally, I say, also because I see Mr Kox: I think we need to strengthen local government, but then we also need to strengthen local democracy. This will be about support, that is, about the resources we want to make available for this, but also about the space we want to leave to local government for local considerations. I'm still working on that. I was just challenged to still do my job, even in the missionary period. That's what I'm doing, and I'm happy to do it, because this is what I'm doing. In the short term, I will send a letter to both chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u135	I am glad that the Minister reassures us and says that she will have her things ready when she is called to the informant. These things may be visible to everyone; that is no longer the problem. No, that's lame. My question is, how could it have come to this? There are 139 municipalities with an operating shortage. That's not a few, but that's... Well, I won't call the word "disappointed." That's dramatic, isn't it? How could it have gotten this far? How could we all let it get this far? The minister should be the guardian of the local authorities, and the minister also thinks that she should be. How could we let it get this far? And I have a second question that is linked to it. It's also a little in line with what Roel van Gurp said. If we then know that at least this has to be resolved and that it needs to be cleaned up, then it is nice to inform everyone about it. I think that then the minister is the one who can act, missionary or not. This Chamber hasn't declared anything controversial. We think this is important. If there is consensus on this, to what extent can we simply act in the short term in this area? That's what Mr Koole asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u136	That's your question. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u137	I would also like to come straight to the issue of finance, which Mr Kox is now drawing attention to. It is also right to wonder how it could have come to this. The Chamber has also seen it, because every year both Chambers receive reports on this: the municipal finances have very quickly deteriorated very much. That really went up in a pretty steep line. Of course, we need to know exactly how that could have happened. It is easier to ask the question than to answer it very precisely, but these decentralisations have to do with it, for example in the field of youth care, where we have completely exploited it. Several reports have been drawn up on this subject, and we are now entering the stage in which we will have to make other choices in the future, by the way, after we have added money to meet the worst needs for the moment. So we know about that, but of course it's more than just that. Youth care is a very heavy burden on a large number of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u138	The Minister says: asking the question is easier than giving the answer. That's right. That is why the Minister and we are simply senators, but we must ask the question because we need an answer. And one thing is certain: the case is acute. As Mr Rombouts said, if you have good people but you don't have enough money, you can't do a good job. The worst thing we can say to our fellow governments is that we do not allow you to do good work. I would therefore ask the Minister to consider what a cabinet could do in a demissionary situation, especially given that I believe that there would be broad support in both the Houses of Representatives to address this acute problem in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u139	Luckily, we've been able to do a lot. Around corona we have just made specific agreements with the municipalities and they are just compensated for that. Around youth care, we have also been able to agree on extra money for the whole cabinet period, but also for this year, so that we know that, in the most serious cases, waiting lists can simply be started and that this need is met. For example, we have frozen the scaling-up discount for two years. It has been booked in and there was no room to say that it is going away completely, but we have frozen it for two years for the municipalities, also to alleviate the worst need. That was also very much appreciated. But now you're on the eve of another cabinet period. One of the things I would like to say to the informant and the negotiating parties is that the scaling-up discount really needs to be removed. It just has to go, because it also weighs very heavily on the municipalities. It's just booked in. With each municipality you just see the series in the budget: the scaling-up discount is also increasing. So that doesn't work, because that's not something we can book in on money coming in. We've made agreements about child care. There is the arbitration and there we have the report of the Sint Committee and, by the way, other reports. That is where choices will have to be made. They may also be about the system as such. I am not the portfolio holder for youth care, but I am sitting with Mr Blokhuis and before that I am talking to Mr De Jonge about how we should solve this. So that way, of course, a lot has already happened. In this way, the outgoing cabinet can, of course, continue to do its job as long as it is there, but I think that sometimes it also calls for structural measures, and they are part of the formation at home. We can provide the material for that, but the political choices must be made at the formation table or in the Council of Ministers, in consultation with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u140	The Minister makes a very solid, committed and committed impression on the problems of the municipalities, but the very specific question I have asked, which I believe is shared by the whole Chamber, is whether you would not like to do a bit more by saying: even in missionary status, I dare to suggest a quarter of an hour maker, a project leader. In the opinion of the Public Administration Board, this is called a "delta Commissioner." I deliberately didn't take that word. Would you not think again between now and the second term about what is actually opposed to doing so in missionary status? Because you have a lot of work to do, but the municipalities could have to wait another nine months for an agreement or the implementation of measures if you do not get them going now. And isn't that a shame, given the intensity of the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u141	Yes, I understand the question. Of course, I do not know how long it will take; we all hope that it will not take as long as Mr Rombouts is now describing. But that formation can just take some time, and in the meantime the work does go on and the municipalities have to be able to do their job. And I have, of course, seen that advice from the Public Administration Board, with the beautiful title 'Rest, space and regularity', not 'cleanliness', but'space and regularity'. And the word "delta commissioner" or whatever it's supposed to be. I've been thinking about it, and I think that figure is actually already here. That is the Minister for Foreign Affairs; he must do so. And I hope that I will do the same to a sufficient extent. I would like to try to convince Mr Rombouts of that. But I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs should take the lead in how to improve intergovernmental relations. It must indeed ensure that the agenda is ready, and the underlying material, in case the informant or the negotiating parties ask for it. It must take care of itself, and I shall do so in order to speak to the fellow governments, so that we can also come up with a joint agenda. On the contrary, I fear that if you choose another figure, a Commissioner, someone a bit more remote, others will think: we are going to sit back for a moment; let the delta Commissioner do the work, and we will see again in a year's time. Then maybe we'll just sit together and say, "Now we're too late." Because then the whole formation has been, then there is a new cabinet working, then there is a Minister of State... Well, what else can you do? Then the financial frameworks will probably also be fixed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u142	The Minister convinces me, because she says: I don't need anyone for that, I can do that very well myself. Then there's really only one thing: in what time are we going to notice? If you are putting all the effort into this, and you have already convinced me of that, in preparing what is needed to deliver a good document to the informant, why not turn it into: I will send it to the informant, but I will start with it? Of course, when it comes to billions, you can't break pots now, but you can make it all ready. Because we will need months of information, time to work, that process with the congregations, and it would be such a shame if that really had to go on until January. Is it not possible to come up with something clever, so that today, with this fine debate, we have achieved something concrete that will also take place in the coming weeks and months?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u143	Of course, that's an interesting suggestion. Some are really about billions, because that's just about problems of municipal finances, about financial problems in certain areas such as the social domain, youth care. Fortunately, we have already been able to take some steps. Unless it takes a very long time, because I don't think anyone wants this year and certainly not next year to be some kind of lost years in these domains. No one wants that. So that the cabinet is then just supposed to act, so do I. At the same time, however, I assume that the formation parties in the new cabinet are also keen that 2022 is not a lost year and that they do want to have an impact on the budgets that will then come. However, in the meantime you can of course do things in the examples I mentioned, i.e. youth care, around corona, around the freezing of the scale-up discount. I am, and I'm sure as hell going ahead with it. And if it's necessary to do more, I'd like to do the same. But once again, reducing the balance between tasks and tasks is, of course, about the big money, and that, I think, simply requires a financial framework and a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u144	I just wanted to start by complimenting the minister on the way she or the cabinet helped the municipalities in the financial position around corona. There it was put in a very concrete and clear picture: what do these municipalities need, where are the problems, and can we deal with them right away? You have done well; that must be said at some point. And I think the comments we have made here are in the same spirit. Alone, they may be after corona, but they can't wait. I see that investment capacity in municipalities is almost zero. What we need is to invest anti-cyclically to get out of that crisis if corona is in a moment less. It would be nice if you would also give something to the informant about this. You state that you have your equipment ready, but do you have any thoughts about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u145	Then I have to see if I understand Mr Raven correctly. In the case of anti-cyclical investment to promote recovery, does Mr Raven perhaps think of what municipalities can do to give room for entrepreneurs and jobs? Yes. The provinces have made proposals for this themselves quite early in the crisis, I believe sometime in the autumn. We are now looking from the cabinet at the emergency support packages, but if we can get back to normal in this country we are going to reduce. Then you should definitely look at recovery. Then I find it an interesting idea to have the fellow governments look at that too. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u146	I would like to remind you of the tip I gave. The municipalities have done a lot of work in the past and have done good work on this decentralisation. It went quite well in policy terms, but only the financial part was not well covered. That is why I have proposed that this be compensated in one stroke. It would allow municipalities to invest anti-cyclically in order to create jobs after the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u147	I think that's how most of the municipalities are in it. If you take a broad look at solving the financial problems of municipalities, then we should also look at the whole system. Then we also have to look at how the Municipal Fund works and the distribution within the Municipal Fund. Do we want to continue with the system of stairs, down stairs or not? These are very fundamental issues, and that is different from what Mr Raven is saying. Once again, I would like the financial problem to be resolved, but I also want it to be resolved sustainably. I want us to be able to say to each other in a number of years: this system works much better than what we had, it leads to a better and fairer distribution of resources. Perhaps more resources should also be used than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u148	Finally, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u149	Are you not going in the direction of a one-off compensation for the deficits that have been made available to the municipalities in the past? You could take a big step with that. When it comes to the Municipal Fund, we are talking about a number of technocratic calculations that have nothing to do with human-oriented policies. I would like to say that we need to zoom in on that more, we need to include the human dimension in that story as well. Now the technocratic standards are not at all the basis of any policy. It's the result of a calculation. I think you should look more closely at making funds available.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u151	It's true. It's become incredibly complex. There aren't many people who can understand exactly how that division works. Any attempt to make it fairer leads to improvement on the one hand, but on the other hand to deterioration. That's not what you want either. Money is very important, but it's not the only thing. It is also about legislation and regulation, it is also about the space we need to give the municipalities to make policy choices at the local level. That is the great advantage that the municipalities are closest to the people and therefore best know what needs to be done locally. It's about money, but it's about more than just money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u152	Thank you. I'll check for the order. We've been working on the first block for an hour and a quarter of an hour. This is almost entirely due to the interruptions, which have so far been 30 on 90 questions today. You have four cubes left, so if they all last an hour and a quarter of an hour, then there's another five hours. Or have you already dealt with a number of issues on the basis of interruptions? Well, that could be a good idea. In any case, we are going to take a break for dinner in an hour, also in connection with a number of committees where people have to go. What's about the timing as you see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u153	Mr President, I have indeed already answered some of the questions on the basis of interruptions. However, I still have a lot of questions to ask. I would, of course, like to do justice to the speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u154	I'll give you that chance. Then my proposal is that from now on we let the Minister finish the block and do the interruptions every time at the end of the block. Can the Chamber agree to that? Otherwise, I think it's gonna be really late. Go ahead, Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u155	That's fine, Mr. Chairman. Compliments for opening with the human size. It's been quoted. I wholeheartedly endorse the comment about the delta Commissioner, and that the Minister for the Interior should do so himself. Compliments. I do have the question of how you see it. The Minister says: I have a file and I am ready for it; if the informant comes with a question, I will deliver it. This has been the subject of the new governance culture for weeks and the advice to draw up a thin coalition agreement. What are you waiting for, I'd almost like to ask. You can simply hand this over to the House of Representatives and say: from my years of experience this is what I have advice; normally I take it to the informant. We know how that works. You can say: this is the package I see for me from my specialty; discuss it, because you are a co-legislator. Then we can see which way it goes. What are we waiting for?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u156	I understand that question very well. I think that there is also a great deal in the Chambers, for example the analysis of the financial conditions of the municipalities. Of course it is known. I think the question now was to look not only from the cabinet or the BZK, but above all together with the fellow governments to see what is needed and how we could jointly bring that to the attention of the informant. The reason to wait is then actually that we think it is neat to do so at the appropriate time. That's when there's an informant who's in agreement with the parties about the contents of it. We can then present it there in the first instance. But there is nothing in itself against suggesting the future, and I will not let that go by for a moment either. I am also very pleased with this debate, which gives me that opportunity. Many of the suggestions I make today will therefore be reflected in what we would like to share with the informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u157	As for the argument that that is neat, or a bit the mores: it's a lot about those mores. It is also neat that we have all prepared ourselves, have a proper debate and have good reactions. Maybe it's nice to meet up with you to give me that file. Then we're gonna study it and we're gonna be able to take it further. The informant in turn does his or her own work. That would be a wonderful solution, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u158	I'm here to answer all the questions. Again, many of the answers I give, of course, correspond entirely to what I like to give to an informant. You will. can of course check, because at that time it is available to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u159	Finally, Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u160	Then I would ask for a very specific commitment: can we not just get that package today or tomorrow? Then I'm sure we can study it. We're curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u161	I'd like to send it as soon as possible, but I'd like to keep the deal I made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u162	Thank you. Then I suggest that we let the Minister finish the second, third, fourth and fifth blocks first, and then commit the interruptions. Can the Chamber agree to that? I'm gonna check it out so we can make a good deal about that. That's the case. Would you also indicate when the block is finished? Then that's clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u163	I'll be sure to. And again, I think some of it can be skipped because we have already talked about it in detail. We have already discussed the financial situation quite extensively. I would like to mention the precise amounts that we have been able to make available in recent times for the various areas. I would like to go into more detail about the Özütok motion. It is actually about exactly what Mr Van der Linden just asked. Mr Koole asked about the implementation of the Özütok motion in his term. It has led us to look with the authorities at structural solutions in many areas: not only money, but also governance and governance, legislation and all that is needed to balance them so that municipalities or other co-governments can carry out their tasks and do their job in the various societal challenges that exist. So I'm implementing that motion. I've been consulting and consulting with the co-governments. This has been aimed at a shared commitment and the formulation of a shared responsibility. We come together in a number of substantive areas. These are, for example, the social domain, which I have already mentioned, the climate and the implementation of the Climate Agreement, the assignment of residence and, indeed, Mr Raven has just asked for the restoration of the regional economy after corona. That is what we discussed at that level. We also said to each other that it should not be too non-committal. It's supposed to be mandatory. If you organize it with each other, you have to be able to trust each other to realize it. We also include the many opinions of the Council of State, but also those of the Study Group, which is also mentioned in the motion for a resolution in the report "If one government acts decisively towards the future!'. Next to the comments and questions by Mr Van Gurp and Mr Raven, among others, on Article 108 (3) of the Municipal Act. It stipulates that, when the Empire lays down certain tasks for the municipalities and the municipalities cannot collect the funds themselves, the Empire will have to reimburse the costs involved. Mr Van Gurp rightly said that. This means that the Empire also has a responsibility for the financial burden involved in decentralisation. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be in municipal law. But this article is not in itself, because of course we also have the well-known Article 2 in the Financial Ratio Act, which obliges us to reflect the financial implications for local authorities of policies that the Empire has. I would like to stress, once again, that in future we need to put this in a better picture in advance and then continue to monitor and monitor it. I think this is crucial. It is a good thing that this is already legally established, but we must pay even more attention to this in the implementation and take more time for it. Mr Van der Voort, Mr Van Gurp and others asked for independent arbitration. That is indeed a construction advocated by the ROB. Of course, we also have the opinion of the Council of State on intergovernmental relations. The Council of State is actually saying: now bet on a sound independent estimate of the budgetary resources in advance. In fact, exactly as I put it. The Council of State therefore says: avoid the need for a permanent provision for the resolution of financial disputes, but provide a multi-annual fixed budgetary framework that provides financial security, especially for the longer term, structuralally. I think that is a very valuable and important recommendation from the Council of State. I think you just need to make sure you get it right in advance. That's always better than having to fix it afterwards. The impact analysis I mentioned earlier should anchor that. You actually create an administrative and financial construct, an arrangement, if you like, with which you make sure that the finances and the task are in balance with each other. Then, of course, it can still happen once that you haven't fully assessed it, despite the careful process at the front. In that exceptional case, you could call for arbitration, as we do now, for example, in the case of youth care. But that should really be for those exceptions. So it is not a fixed independent arbitration that is invoked too often, but only an arbitration in very exceptional cases, if unforeseen consequences occur. It can be very useful if you can get an external judgment in finding a solution. So that is different from what the ROB has advocated, but on this point I would like to make the opinion of the Council of State mine. Mr Koole is asking for an overview. He asked: can the budget of BZK not simply provide a comprehensive overview of all benefits to the local authorities? I understand the need for as much clarity as possible about that. An overview of all specific benefits is already published in the BZK budget. The circulars of the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund contain all the decentralisation benefits and also the general benefits. I am talking to the departments about the possibility of an overview of all payments to local authorities in each budget of the trade ministers. As we do now in the case of subsidies, I would also like to do so in the case of payments to local authorities, so that an integral overview is available by department. That will then be clear for the Chambers and that will also enable the Chambers to address the person in charge of the policy. It's a bit of a question: do you want it all with BZK? Then you automatically go to the Secretary of State automatically. I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs should make sure that there is an overview, but that you are at the right place with the Minister of Trade and not with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. That's how I try to get it better and more insightful. In order to respond to Mr Koole's objective, I would be able to provide an additional comprehensive report on the trends in these benefits and their impact on the financial position of the municipalities. Mr Van Gurp asked about the municipal tax area and the possibility to increase it. His question was how I look at that. So far it hasn't been chosen. I think the most important thing, apart from the question of whether or not we have a municipal tax area, is that we get the financial balance in order. In itself, you can very well imagine that a tax area of your own allows municipalities to generate their own income. I think that if the local tax area gets a little bigger, that's good for the vitality of local democracy. That's how it works. Residents will then be better involved in certain trade-offs. You pay taxes and you want to determine what happens to the money and how it is spent. I, together with the Secretary of State for Finance, have had an investigation into the revision of the municipal tax area. That investigation was also offered to your Chamber a year ago. The ROB has also written something about this in the aforementioned opinion, as has the Council of State. Both consider that it is only useful to extend the tax area once the funding systems of the local authorities have been put in order. They actually say: it is a good idea, but first make sure that we are out of the issue of finance. The funding system must be stable and in order.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Actually, I think that's a good idea. I think it is very important to have that funding system in place before you take that next step. It is also a very big step; that has not just happened. If you were to start, it would probably take years for you to get that right. But again, I think it's an interesting thought for the future. Actually, I've always found that. Then there is the idea that the municipalities must have at least 30% of the finances available. Mr Koole said that, and he quoted one of the fellow professors who suggested it. The question is whether that is not too rigid, because that is a very hard standard and I do not know if it always works. The municipalities are different in each other and they can also generate revenue within certain ranges of tasks themselves. Sometimes the boundary between co-management with a great deal of policy freedom and genuinely autonomous tasks is difficult to define. I find that 30% standard difficult to apply. I do agree with the importance that Mr Koole and others mentioned. You want autonomy and autonomy belongs to financial space, but you do not want certain autonomous spending to be suppressed by problems in other areas, where there is much less autonomy. I have a lot of eyes for that, but I don't know if this is the best way to guarantee it. Mr Van der Linden and Mr Raven asked about the scaling-up discount. They wanted that scaling-up discount off the table. We accidentally deleted it in 2021. My advice to another cabinet would be to delete it, but I am not in a position here to promise that it will. But I think it's necessary. Then there's a few things underneath this block. Mr Van der Linden asked whether local authorities have succeeded in working more efficiently, better and smartly. I think that municipalities generally manage well. For example, they buy together or use Shared Service Centers. If you look at the implementation costs of municipalities, salaries, hiring and so on, you will see that, despite the fact that the task package has grown, it has decreased. That is, in itself, a sign of success, but because of the growing financial pressure that has arisen, they have of course also been forced to cut back and cut certain provisions. Autonomy also means that you leave the space to municipalities to make their own choices in how they organise the work and how they facilitate it. Of course, if municipalities ask for help or need help, I am always willing to do so. We have done so in certain specific areas. That's what other departments do. For example, I did it in the area of Living, from my other portfolio. There really was a shortage of technical experts who could grant building permits. Then we put together a team of experts. That went like a flying team across the country. Where that expertise was needed, the team was deployed. Of course, we do that kind of thing, but I leave a lot of room for congregations to do that themselves. Finally, the social domain. There was also a question from Mr Van der Linden. He actually wanted to know more precisely how it had gone with the decentralisation and the task-setting cuts that were made at the time. I can tell him the actual reductions in decentralisation very precisely. Some 450 million reductions in efficiency have been applied to young people. With the decentralisation of the Wmo, up to 610 million savings have been made on household care. 733 million savings were made on individual guidance and daily spending in 2018. For example, with Wmo you have a budget of about 11 billion via the general benefit. So that's how we know what's going on in all these posts. We also know that there is an efficiency discount on the WSW, the social employment service, of nearly 300 million on a budget of 2 billion, so that is 10%-15%. So we do know that. This is one of the reasons why I think that next time, if there are any plans to redesign the system, a lot of time should be devoted to precisely analysing it. At that time, of course, it was implemented very quickly and within very rigid financial frameworks. In the field of youth care, we now see in many municipalities that this has caused problems. That is not the case everywhere. There are also municipalities that have managed to do it. Mr. Chairman. This was the financials section.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u164	Mr. Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u165	I thank the Minister for her answers. I have one more question concerning Article 108 (3) of the Municipal Act. I would like to thank the Minister for agreeing without reservation with our reading of the article. When you place tasks with the municipality, you have to provide the money that costs those tasks. She is still reading this in relation to Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act, which states that careful thought must be given in advance to what it will cost. Article 108 (3) of the Municipal Act states: What it will cost, you have to pay. Thank you. So that's what we're agreed on. Then the Minister also says: we will have to do better in future. I agree with her. But there is also a current situation. If it is said that we should do better in future, I understand that we have not done well in the current situation. If we have not done well in the current situation, let me just fix it on youth care, where it is most clear at the moment, the greedy financial problem of municipalities is also the cause of this at the moment. Municipalities really say: we really can't get the budget for 2022 around anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u166	What's your question, Mr. Van Gurp?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u167	So my question is how the Minister intends to deal with the recognition that not enough has been done so far. The gaping deficits on the municipal budget cannot wait for a structural arrangement next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u168	That's kind of the same point as before. That depends on the fact that the cabinet is outgoing, that there is a formation going on. These kinds of issues call for a structural solution in the financial sense and perhaps also for certain choices. The latter is a bit dependent on the policy area, but in the case of youth care it could play a part. Exactly this conversation we had with the fellow governments. I can tell you that we also had this conversation in the cabinet. Preferably, you'd be making arrangements in several years. At the same time, however, the following plays out. Firstly, there is a formation going on and secondly, it is not yet the time to draw up the budget. I understand the Aldermen Finance and Youth Services very well, who say: very nice that we addressed the financial problem for this year, but how should I make my budget for next year? In fact, the cabinet has the same problem. On the subject of youth care, we have said that we will first take the intermediate step to resolve this year and then take the intermediate step of arbitration. We already have the Sint report and other material. Here also applies a little: comes time, comes advice. At some point you'll see if the formation goes fast enough, so that it gets neatly on the board of the new cabinet and if you ask me, it should also be in the new coalition agreement. If, at some point, it turns out that it is no longer feasible, another situation will arise. That's how we discussed it with the co-governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u169	I just said I understand the situation. I also understand the situation where there is no delay in the obligation to draw up a balanced budget. They're kind of working on that right now. That's a problem. My first question is: are you prepared to look very closely at the year 2022 against that background? My second question is: do I understand your words correctly that when you hand over the formation file, where we get a bit of a picture of the fact that Article 108 (3) of the Municipal Act is clear, namely that if tasks are to be assigned to the municipalities, these tasks must also be compensated, and that you indicate that we really need to do this better in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u170	That last point and that principle I am not taking away from. On the basis of this principle, we have always looked, examined and tried to understand the field of youth, but also other domains... You can argue about it. You can discuss exactly how much is needed and why it is done in one municipality and not in the other. You'd have to do that carefully. That's what the congregations think with us. Then there's the other point. Right now, the deal is that we have money for this year. We have also agreed on a development agenda and a number of administrative interventions in youth care, in order to have sufficient control over youth care. The question of next year's budget is basically on the table. We'd like to fix it. We'll keep talking to each other. If we have to get back together at some point, maybe as a result of arbitration, then we're just gonna have that conversation again. We'll see what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u171	Finally, Mr. Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u172	I have one final question. Will the municipalities then have the opportunity to budget a gap in their budget in anticipation of the formation table? I know, and I don't mean it annoying, but it's just really a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u173	I understand your point. That is exactly the conversation that Paul Blokhuis and I are having with the aldermen and the VNG. We're thinking about how to fix this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u174	Following on from the 2022 budget. The formation is indeed running. I have two questions for the Minister on the 2022 budget. If the formation does not run as smoothly as we may hope, then the budget must be drawn up. The Minister himself said: "I don't need a delta commissioner, because that's me. I want to pull it. There's gotta be a lot of things going on. Some things cost billions and are for the long term." At some point, the budget really needs to be drawn up for 2022. Can the Minister promise that she will ensure that this moment as a tractor, a.k.a. delta commissioner, and the Minister of the Interior will at least be available for next year, so that that is settled and certain? All the reports will still be part of the long-term discussion. That was my first question. I welcome the commitment that additional reports will be made on the budget list. The Minister has promised that the overview of all government expenditure will be added, but that there will also be some kind of additional reports setting out trends. I'm happy about that. My second question concerns the minimum rate of 30%, which I borrowed from my colleague Elzinga. I can see how that might be very rigid. At the same time, the Minister says: I am very much in favour of a freely spent part of the budget in connection with the autonomy of the municipality. Could the Minister perhaps promise that an attempt is being made to find a way in which this freely disposable income, and hence the autonomy of municipalities, is, in some way, better guaranteed? Maybe that's not with a fixed percentage, but maybe there's another way. Do you think she'd want that investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u175	I understand that Mr Koole and others will continue to return to the budget for next year. But it is a really complicated issue. There are, of course, more areas to which this applies. I will certainly do my best to ensure that everything is done to get the municipal finances in order. If the formation takes such a long time that a budget will simply have to be drawn up, then so be it. I assume that a outgoing cabinet is therefore supposed to do so by Parliament. At the same time, I would find it very unfortunate if it came to that. Then we're going to try to solve it a little bit with patches for one more year, while I think it's much more important to look at solutions structuralally, for an entire cabinet period. Maybe they also mean that you have to do something before 2022, because many of these kinds of adjustments obviously take time. Then you're gonna have to be willing to put money in front of it. So that could be a very good outcome in the formation. I am an optimistic person, so I assume that it will succeed, that there is just a formation that will be ready in time, that the new cabinet will have the ambition to influence the 2022 budget and will also determine the frameworks for it. I will then do my best to ensure that this works well for the municipalities, especially in the area of youth care, the social domain and their financial problems in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u176	I had another question about extra research into that 30%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u177	Oh, yeah, sorry. That was Elzinga, briefly. Mr Koole and I may be able to find each other. I said it might be too rigid, but it is indeed a suggestion, a form, to at least ensure that autonomy goes hand in hand with the space for it. I do think that perhaps you should not assume a certain percentage, but rather the objective that comes with autonomy that you have that space. And if you're going to look at the systematics and the system, then you could take that thought with you. I would like to meet Mr Koole in that. We need to look at a better functioning system, which is going to give greater budgetary stability to the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u178	I have two topics. First of all... If, at macro level, for all Dutch municipalities, the minimum requirements to be met in the context of, for example, youth care, resulting in these costs, in accordance with the law, with this macro amount in the Gemeentefonds, then the problems have not been solved. In that case, there is a macro amount in the Gemeentefonds, which is distributed according to the municipal fundsystematiek, unless the targeted payments are made. But the target benefits are then at the agreed minimum level, defined by all of us, that we therefore find to be at least valid. That's possible plus a percentage above that, if you're generous. However, this 139 does not go down to 0. Then you will also have to redistribute between areas. In addition, you can talk about rich and poor, or you can talk about population compositions. This may be less important in the case of youth care, but in the case of labour market problems, for example, you can see that the social workplace, or social employment provision, whatever you want to call it, costs a lot and much more money in Groningen than in the South Holland region. In any case, I would like a reflection from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u179	Mr Van der Burg has already given that reflection himself. He said he needed two words, but he needed more words. Why? Because it is so complicated and because I think it is exactly as Mr Van der Burg describes it. This also shows why we are having the discussion about the Municipal Fund, and how we should divide it better. It shows why it's such an incredibly difficult story, where eventually when the cake doesn't get bigger, you can't come out of it, at least not in a way that everyone likes better. That is still loose, abstracting, of the subsets in there, of which Mr Van der Burg, even better than I do, sketches how they are put together. Depending on how you look at it, something can make a lot of sense for some of the municipalities, but it works worse for other municipalities by definition. That's just right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u180	We now see this in the new redistribution of the Community Fund, where the money goes from the poor east to the rich west. That does not seem to me to be the intention of a majority in The Hague. I didn't say I was going to use two words; I said I had two subjects. The second point concerns Mr Koole's 30%. This depends not only on the money you deposit in the giro account of municipalities or others. It also has to do with earning capacity. Because I happen to know that city a little better than some other cities, I mentioned the example of Amsterdam, where you earn so much money with a free sector house on the Zuidas or on the Zeeburger Island that you can solve the problem in Obdam at once in terms of benefits. Obdam was €250,000 short. That was 48% of their budget. That's one house in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u181	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u182	How do you deal with, at least how do you feel about that 30% margin, combined with the free space that a municipality has in policy freedom and which is different in Heerlen than in the richest city of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u183	May I start by returning to Mr Van der Burg's statement on the Community fund? By the way, there is no proposal; there is an analysis of how to distribute it differently. It's not a slide from east to west. That is really too short to sum up what is now going on, but it does lead to a different distribution. It illustrates that it leads to incomprehension, not to those who come out a little better, because they think: finally recognising the fact that we are struggling with this, this and this. In others, the weather leads to something that they cannot properly explain to their inhabitants. That's why it's so complex. That's why it's not finished. That is why I do not think it can be done without additional resources. Then there is the second point. There are all kinds of ways. Mr Van der Burg, who, like me, was alderman in Amsterdam for a long time, like to mention the Zuidas as an example, but of course there are other examples. For example, the tourist tax is a button in certain municipalities and especially in Amsterdam where they liked to turn on, but that can also just dry up, we have now learned. Indeed, there are many municipalities that have much less of that kind of potential than some richer municipalities. I think that this issue only illustrates why, for example, such a rigid standard of 30% is not appropriate. It's too much for one, it's too little for the other. But the principle of autonomy and the principle of autonomy means that you have to have sufficient resources, I agree with that. That is why I have just said to Mr Koole that I think we should think of a good solution to this in the recitals and in the agreements to be made for the coming period, including the Municipal Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u184	Then we're going to block 3, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u185	Yes, and that was the part of the region and the question of democratic legitimacy. There has already been an exchange of views at the time of the introduction, also because many speakers have mentioned it. I have heard two drawbacks of regional cooperation: the question of democratic legitimacy and the lack of overview. How do you keep an overview anyway? I heard here a few times the number of 1,200 regional partnerships. I couldn't quite place that, but I can't rule it out either. If you're not careful, it'll be a complicated and intransparent whole. A more uniform layout naturally has advantages. I told you, Thorbecke's house is just as far as I'm concerned. We'd better take advantage of that. There the Councils and the States are in position and then you know that democratic legitimacy is in order. And I already joined the Council of State that said that sometimes the province is just the region. This is often the case in the province of Zeeland, for example. But of course it doesn't work in the same way everywhere. That is why I think we should leave room for differentiation. There are, after all, huge differences in our small country. Let's leave room for that. So the debate is good. In particular, let us have a debate on the desire to achieve greater uniformity in regional development. We can also use the opinions of the Council of State, the ROB and other bodies. There is also a study by the University of Groningen on public values creation of public regional ecosystems. That material is there and it's all there. I think it is a good thing that this debate is being held. Mr Van der Voort outlined the dilemma in which you have a province on the one hand, and sometimes a region on the other. It rubs sometimes. How can you prevent that? I think we should stick to what's needed. If you choose custom solutions, you don't have to sand it. If it is one province, then it is nicely taken away and it is just as easy. But very often two or three provinces are involved in such regional cooperation. As long as you organize that properly and recognize it in front, I don't think that's gonna be a problem. Then there is the question of task differentiation. I think that is actually the point that Mr Van den Burg just made, but I would like to make it a little more specific. Municipalities are different. Task differentiation is possible. For example, we see it in transport regions. We see it very specifically, of course, by the Rotterdam Act. I sometimes think of the city of The Hague. This is the only municipality in the Netherlands where voters are registered abroad. That is an extra task this municipality is doing, and that works very well. So that kind of task differentiation is there. But I do not know whether task differentiation is always the solution, especially if you are trying to increase democratic legitimacy. You can say, for example, that a particular task is so important that it cannot actually be carried out properly by all the different municipalities, so we ask a centre municipality to do so. But how do you solve the problem of democratic legitimacy? Then you should actually ask that center municipality to answer to all the other municipal councils, and that is complicated again. So there might be a solution, but I don't think you should want to do that standard that way. Mr Koole had a number of interesting statements anyway. He also asked me to reflect on the thesis: regionalisation leads to depoliticisation. That is actually a translation of the possible lack of democratic legitimacy. There are partnerships that consist exclusively of co-operation between colleges, i.e. between mayors and aldermen. So guesses aren't part of that at all. Yes, then it leads to distance and then there is the risk that people's representatives, as well as other people, will not feel involved at all. And yet I think it's possible, as long as you have enough eye for it to organize it that way with each other. This cooperation also leads to results, which can once again be incredibly important to the inhabitants. But then check in the front, if you're meeting each other, if you've organized it. Have you even organized that the parliament is involved, can adjust, can express wishes? That is one of the efforts we are making, including in the adjustment of the WGR. That bill is now in the Lower House. In doing so, we want to strengthen the position of the city council vis-à-vis the common regulation. I think that might help. I am also working to ensure that people's representatives are actually better supported. We do this very specifically in the energy transition, for example. We have the Democracy in Action cooperation programme. We simply support council members with very concrete, practical tools, with advice, with information, with examples of other collaborations, with which they can benefit. You just have to do that kind of thing, and you have to pay attention to it every time and work on it. With every task you have to ask yourself again and again what is the best form and what is best for it. You can decentralize; there can be very good reasons for that and then you have to do it, but maybe it isn't always the best solution. Deconcentration may indeed sometimes be a better form, depending entirely on what it is about. I will come back to the WGR, because there were a few specific questions about that. Mr Koole asked about the partnerships outside the WGR. I do believe that the use of the WGR certainly has advantages, because it better guarantees the position of the municipal councils. It could be even better, but at least you've secured your information right and you also know that you've just got a representative in there from your advice. However, it is not always the most obvious solution, because otherwise, if they simply want to enter into cooperation, municipalities would, in a manner of speaking, have to start a new organisation for each cooperation. I think it is right, for example, for neighbouring municipalities to visit each other, to make agreements and to coordinate. Then nothing changes in their decision-making. So it just stays with the municipalities and the councils, but cooperation between municipalities and sometimes also with private parties can sometimes also be done informally or in private form. So it doesn't always have to be poured into the WGR. Mr Van der Voort said that the Council of State was somewhat critical of whether the objectives were actually achieved by the change in the WGR. It is a bit difficult to answer that question now, not because I do not want to do so but because of course this is in the House of Representatives. I do not want to anticipate too much the content of the proposal and thus actually pass the House of Representatives, but the aim of the bill is to improve the position of the municipal councils in relation to their current position. Of course, you always have to make your point with critical opinions or with critical opinions from the Council of State, but I think that this proposal will help to strengthen the position of the municipal councils, without limiting the effectiveness of the common system too much. Anyway, I am going to have the debate on this with the House of Representatives and then, of course, with this Chamber. I am not saying that this proposal will be perfect either, but I think that these are important steps towards improving democratic legitimacy. Let me come back to Mr Koole's comment on deconcentration. In my view, Mr Koole's statement is: if there is little freedom of policy, why decentralise? Surely it would be better to deconcentration and leave implementation and responsibility to the Empire? Yes, if there is little freedom of policy, I agree with him that you could choose that. The municipalities do not have to do everything and take on all the tasks. Nevertheless, I would like to contrast that I can imagine that, even if there is little freedom of policy, there can be very good and legitimate arguments to invest it with municipalities, for example because there is coherence with other policy areas that are also invested in municipalities. So I'd like to take that into account. Again, I am not against that at all and you have to look again and again, but also without freedom of policy, because municipalities already have certain tasks that they carry out, may be good enough to ask them to do so, even if they have little freedom of policy in them. But then again, this also calls for tailor-made work. Mr Verkerk asked what different regional classifications the Netherlands actually knows. I do not know whether he himself referred to the website www.regionlas.nl or whether someone else referred to it. That is where all the regional classifications are kept as we know them. So perhaps Mr Verkerk could surf there to see what he thinks about that and whether that would answer his question. Then Mr Van Hattem asked about the security regions and their democratic control. There's a law for the security regions, the Security Regions Act. It is the responsibility of my colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security. He offered an evaluation of the law to the House of Representatives at the end of last year. In the preparation of this evaluation, democratic control and better accountability are really a matter of attention. Look, these security regions are, of course, something really special. If there is no disaster or crisis, then there is general governance for those security regions. There are the participating municipalities, through the mayors, and they can answer to their councils again. That's actually pretty clear. If there is an acute disaster or an acute crisis, and it exceeds the level of municipalities, then powers go to the chairman of the security region. But that must also be done, because there must be management of a crisis or disaster. Then there will be a regional policy team, and there again the mayors will sit on behalf of their municipalities. And there will be accountability, but that happens afterwards, so not at the time itself. That can be just by the mayors themselves, that can also be by the mayor who is also the chairman of the security region, if the councils of other municipalities ask for it. But again, there is therefore an evaluation and improvements are being made on this point. Mr Kox said: I feel related to René Cuperus' statement in the annex to the State of the Board. It is, if I quote him correctly, 'Regionalisation is the coup of the executive technocracy at the expense of the multiple inertia of local democracy'. Well, interesting, of course. Yeah, there's got to be cooperation. Cooperation between governments is ultimately shaped by cooperation between directors. It can be argued that in these cooperations, if they are mainly of an executive nature, the people's representatives, who are'much slowness of local democracy', are the victims of this. But on the other hand, I think that democratic legitimacy is important to us. We would also like it to be reinforced. We do not want it to get out of the picture; we want to put it at the centre. Those are actually things I've done and try to do: strengthening those councils, adjusting the WGR. That's all meant to put those councils in a good position. So I think it's actually some kind of warning that we shouldn't let go of. Mr Van der Linden asked about the scale issue. He pleaded, if I'm right, for some kind of bonus for scaling. That means the opposite of what was once meant by the scale-up idea of the previous cabinet. Well, I like it in itself and well thought out. And also exciting to think about it that way, because the suggestion is "I think" that, if you do that, you will force and stimulate even more to reduce the human size, which we have been talking about before. And we were very much in agreement on that, too. And I also think, with Mr Van der Linden: try to organise it as close to the people as possible, and give people control over it through the council members, and also through the participation of people. I just don't know if it would work this way, with a scaling down bonus. Because then what's the ideal size? Of course, there is no such thing. There are large municipalities that are doing a fantastic job, where people are very satisfied with their municipality. The same applies to very small towns. But the other way around is also true. And there are congregations that are committed to a merger or a reclassification, and indeed are getting better, and there have been reclassifications from the past, whether or not imposed, which have led to less good results. Sometimes it just takes scale; that's what you see everywhere. All the new mayors always come and check in with me, and then we'll talk about it. Especially in the small municipalities, these mayors often see it as their task to ensure that their municipality can still do what those residents are entitled to. And very often the solution is to start working with other municipalities. I'm very happy that mayors are doing that and initiating it. Once again, we have completely abandoned the idea that we should impose the reclassification from above. You'll never hear me plead for that. But I can imagine that it will still be chosen from the bottom up and with support if possible. I find it exciting what Mr Van der Linden has proposed, but I do not think that we should do so, partly because I do not know exactly what scale should lead to that bonus. Finally, Mr Nicolaï. It referred to the Council of State, which talks about the messing-up of regional cooperation. I just said something about that. He specifically asked me to examine what changes to the law are needed to address this deficiency, or to get rid of it, I would almost say. He mentioned a number of possibilities: the right of initiative and the right of amendment that could apply. In his speech and in this question, Mr Nicolaï has brought together all kinds of elements which, although interesting, cannot all be brought together. Yes, democratic legitimacy is not always well organised. But you cannot argue the opposite that if that is not well organized, there should be no cooperation. I just sketched that. In the legislative proposal, we are already trying to strengthen it. On the question of whether this is enough and whether all the problems have been solved, I would almost say that it is not, but I think it is a significant improvement. At some point, you run into the limits of what you can do within those separate arrangements. Let us ensure that, if we choose cooperation, the person who chooses it always has an eye for the role of the parliament, i.e. the Council or the States. If powers of municipal councils are transferred, then there must be a representative of the board on the board of the grouping. That's how you anchor it with each other. I do not think there could be any cooperation without the right of initiative or the right of amendment. I think city councils have other ways to adjust, especially through their own college that they control. I think there are other possibilities within the structure as we know it, with room for differentiation, to do things that can work out better in practice. Mr President, that is what I wanted to say about regionalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u186	And that was the third block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u187	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u188	Including democratic legitimacy. Thank you. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u189	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I've waited nicely until the end of this block. I would like to thank the Minister for her presentation on this point. I have said that regionalisation leads to a major democratic problem, and I hear the Minister say that she is concerned about democratic legitimacy. My question is this. I hear the Minister say a few times that there must be tailor-made work, including in the case of deconcentration. Sometimes it is good that it comes to the municipality, even though there is little freedom of policy. My fear now is that ultimately customization becomes a stopword in the uncontrolled persevering regionalization with all the negative effects. There are good reasons why it is sometimes introduced, but I focus on democratic legitimacy. My question is: should there not be a plan, a dynamic plan and no blueprint, where all these aspects are put together? The Minister can do that as delta commissioner, so that if you don't get out, you can call yourself "customised" and be done with it. I have that fear a little bit. Shouldn't you be developing such a dynamic plan as Home Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u190	This is, of course, a good point. It's an interesting thought. If you say too much that it's customization, it's always good, because everyone has a story why it has to be customization in this particular case. You call it a dynamic plan. I like the word "dynamic," but a plan very much suggests that you capture it completely. Then you say: we have this, this and this; these are the flavors from which you can choose, this is the menu and that's all there is. My plea is right to allow that differentiation. What I could imagine is that you put this on the agenda in the intergovernmental consultation, but that you also say: we do not want to prescribe the form of cooperation, which you should especially choose for yourself, we are confident that you know when the common arrangement is most obvious and the best instrument is and when that is not the case; we also think that you are able to determine whether the ambition you have coincides with that of the province. That was in the example I just mentioned following the opinion of the Council of State. You could agree to try to add more congruence to it, otherwise it will be very fragmented. Then you don't get an integrated approach either, because then you have a very secluded approach for each specific policy area and each time a different cooperation. That's what you could do with each other. That may be the dynamic plan that Mr Koole calls it, but then you actually set out principles, which you want to test. Then the basis would be that you have also addressed democratic legitimacy every time. That's jargon again. In other words, you know that we are all public bodies with a controlling parliament; how is it regulated in this choice, which we make with each other? I say "we," but it will very often be co-governments among themselves who make the choice. However, they have checked in the front that that is well thought out and is just secured. Perhaps it is something different from what Mr Koole is proposing, but that way I could imagine that the fellow governments could have such a conversation. After all, we want to improve that democratic legitimacy. We do not want to add any more bureaucracy to the administrative spaghetti that Mr Koole believes is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u191	I am glad that at least the thought falls on fertile soil. Maybe the word "plan" isn't, but the word "dynamic" is. You could also call it a dynamic analytic framework. If that suits the Minister better, I'm okay with that, too. In any case, it is an idea, in which criteria are developed within a framework or a dynamic plan, so that you always have to check at the front how you organized the democratic legitimacy. If it is a little weaker, then you should be able to say, as a sort of 'comply or explain', that we have looked at it and as a city council we have found that in this case we attach a little less to it than in any other case. Council members should be able to rely on such a dynamic analytic framework so that their position is firm. Is that how the Minister sees it? If they have a 'professional possibility', or if they can refer to it, let me say it carefully to such a plan or dynamic-analytic framework, then they can strengthen their own position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u192	We agree on the goal. We want to improve the anchoring of the democratic control body. In my view, we also agree that there are opinions, for example from the Council of State, which says: try to get more coherence. It has to be more congruent, because it has advantages if you can do it. At the same time, we want to leave room for differentiation and customisation, but without compromising democratic legitimacy. What I would like to say to Mr Koole is that we should continue to talk to the public authorities about how we can shape this. This could perhaps be done in the form of a hand-out, which we make available to all municipal councils to help them do so. We do that all the time. It's also about their own position. I imagine it's complicated. That is why we are also trying to improve it in this common arrangement. You could help them with that, so they could pass that test on the front. I'll let it work on me again and then maybe I can come back to it at another time. I think we could come to something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u193	Before I give the floor to Mr Nicolaï, I have a point of order. At 6.30 p.m. I am going to suspend because of a number of other adapted activities during dinner break. After dinner, of course, we will continue with the debate, where we left off. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u194	I am very pleased with the promise just made by the Minister. I understand that the Minister actually recognizes that a serious democratic deficit can occur if one develops after the other cooperation arrangement. I understand that the legislative amendment that is coming takes this into account, but it does not offer any comfort. When will the border be reached? Surely we have a municipal law with elections, and with municipal councils composed of different groups that we can choose? That whole game doesn't take place in that cooperative body. I think that's a worrying matter. It is so worrying that we are concerned about it and that the Council of State is also concerned about it. So when is the border reached?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u195	Can I really answer that? It is, of course, very difficult to define when that limit is reached. I think we should recognize the following. There are of course things only the municipality or only the province can do. There are. But there are a lot of things you cannot do as a municipality or province alone. There are also a lot of things that we want to do here in The Hague from the ministries, which is government policy, where we cannot do without the municipalities and the provinces. Take housing, for example. So it has to be together all the time. I just outlined that the elections are all at different times. If you want democratic legitimacy in order, you must ensure that the Councils, the States and the Parliament are properly involved and informed. That also applies where something actually transcends them, I shall say. At the time of such cooperation, it is necessary for those who are the representatives of the people to understand what their influence is; both on the front and during cooperation. I think you should make sure of that with each other. That is why I was in a bit of a debate with Mr Koole about what we can do to help them and give them more guidance. That's why I came up with the suggestion to let me have that conversation with the fellow governments, to see what it takes to make this clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u196	I understand. I can also imagine that at some point you say: if we get it all together, we simply do not enter into this cooperation, because that would cost us too much democratic rights. This is without prejudice to the fact that some laws even require cooperation arrangements. Then, of course, you have a different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u197	Of course, Mr Nicolaï is quite right about that. It may be a cooperation that comes about on the initiative of certain co-governments, but it can indeed be a statutory cooperation. I can't argue with that. You have to take that into account in the front, in making the law. If that law is already in place, we'll have to see how you can improve it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u198	Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u199	If you look at it that way, I could imagine that it is in principle a compulsory cooperation, but there must be a reserve for a municipality to say: we are not going to go in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u200	That depends, of course, on the task. I do not think there is such a possibility for some tasks, if we have agreed on them and made legislation for them. You can do something at the front. I mentioned, for example, the Security Regions Act, which has been evaluated and which requires adjustments. Those are the moments you can use to improve democratic legitimacy and further anchor in the law. That's a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u201	I've heard the Minister say a lot of beautiful things. I see a balance with you. On the one hand, you say that we respect the house of Thorbecke. That's for sure. On the other hand, there's a piece of customization. I would like to go one step further than the discussion you had with Mr Koole. It concerns both democratic legitimacy and internal coherence between what is happening in the different regions. When I look at internal cohesion, I ask you what vision you have as Minister of the Interior, if you are allowed to dream. You once told me you weren't dreaming, but then let yourself have visions. If you look further over a decade, or over a decade, what is the congruence of the different regions? I ask this because there are beautiful pictures on which all these regions have been mapped out. In the end, you can see that most of the borders coincide with the provincial borders. This is not the case in a few places. I would like to say in a pragmatic way: perhaps you should adjust the boundaries of the province a little bit, let me put it this way. My point is that you can also see the coherence of the files. If you connect that to Thorbecke's house again, you can hardly ignore the fact that the province could and should receive a number of new tasks in a number of areas. And then you get a simplification of the entire administrative system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u202	Thank you for your question. Then, as agreed, I'm going to suspend for dinner break. The Minister can then think about it for an hour whether she dreams or not. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.30 p.m. After the suspension, we shall begin with the Minister's answer to Mr Verkerk's question. After that, the minister can continue with her fourth block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u203	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the relationship between central government and local authorities. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to start with an answer to the question put by Mr Verkerk before dinner break. He introduced that question by asking me about my dreams. I would like to reassure Mr Verkerk: I do dream, of course, but not on the subject we were talking about at the time. I don't know what topic that was anymore, but it was something in the area of public administration. I do not dream about that very much. But of course I do have daydreams and you can of course think about what you would like the Netherlands to look like or how the public administration should work. I really continue to believe in the combination of two things: the house of Thorbecke and at the same time the house of Thorbecke suitable for now and also for later, in ten or twenty years' time space for differentiation. We want people to trust the government, but we as the Empire must also dare to give that trust to other governments. I believe that, on the basis of this confidence in regional cooperation, we can find a solution that does not lead to an administrative spaghetti or an excess of unmanageable amounts of regional cooperation with insufficient democratic legitimacy. So we should not think in terms of blueprints: it has to be exactly the same or it has to be exactly the same and we should not start to think about it all from The Hague. We should leave room for that, but it should not be entirely non-committal. I also agree with Mr Verkerk. If the scale of the region and the desired regional cooperation, as the Council of State says, is the province, why shouldn't the province actually do it? I would be very open to that. This means that you may give the province certain tasks and powers, including democratic control of them, which are now in the hands of municipalities. You'll have to have that discussion. One might think that this is an improvement in democratic legitimacy; I think that is the case from the States, but perhaps not from the municipal councils. It's not easy. I don't think there's a ready-made solution. I'm just thinking, "Get out of Thorbecke's house now, leave room for differentiation or differentiation." Customize and do not create another layer. So, don't try to add another layer or put an intermediate layer in that house of Thorbecke. I believe that there can also be a guarantee in the existing democratic structures: the two elected representatives as we know them. There doesn't need to be another chosen layer. This could be explained in more detail in the discussion with the co-governments, which I promised Mr Koole, and in which we would see where we would come from together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u205	Thank you very much for that answer. I would appreciate it if you could indeed promise me that you will take that into account in the discussion you promised Mr Koole. For me, these two things go together: the integration of different dossiers/problems and democratic legitimacy. It also has to do with the consideration I gave in my contribution, that what is misdesigned at the top, cannot be repaired by the people in the workplace. That's a very fundamental, organizational law, except when someone is very powerful, so powerful that they get people along and frustrate the structure. But this fundamental consideration is the basis for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u206	I'd be happy to admit it. I think, if you go through that analogy, you shouldn't want to design something at the top where the workplace floor in this case hasn't involved the municipal councils at all. Then it shouldn't actually happen. But the promise was given to Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u207	Mr Verkerk, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u208	Fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u209	Then it's the second last block, before the other block. This concerns the position of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Law on Decentralisations and the questions that related to it. Mr Van Gurp was the first to ask a question about this, but of course Mr Koole and others have supplemented it. They also referred to the Remkes State Commission. It has indeed made that recommendation for that law concerning the local authorities. At that time, I had a review carried out of the decentralisations over the past 15 years. So that was on the basis of that report. That report, "Principles versus practices," can still be found on the site decentralisedbeheer.nl. The report is from 2020. It makes really valuable proposals that look at future decentralisations. It's just the lessons of the previous ones, wrapped in proposals for future decentralisations. Another law is a bit the same as another layer of government. There's a lot in the law. Some of you have mentioned this here today. There are things in the Constitution, in the Province Law, in the Municipal Law. Creating a new law also takes a lot of time, while it is often about filling in and better anchoring what is actually already arranged. Those articles of law that have been cited today are very important articles of law. We have evaluations of existing laws. They offer an opportunity to adapt and improve things. I think that a completely new law on decentralisation, which needs to sum up a whole range of other laws, is perhaps a cumbersome route to achieve what we want to achieve, namely that, if you decentralise, think much better at the front, take the time for it, think carefully about the implementation practice, the financial frameworks and the monitoring and monitoring of those developments in implementation, in practice. I therefore believe that it should be possible to do so without a new law on decentralisation. Several members have asked a question about the position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I have said a few things about this, of course, but here it was specifically about whether you should strengthen that position. It has been suggested, for example, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should have a right of veto for proposals affecting the co-governments. I have just said that I think it is a task, perhaps the task, of the Minister of State to ensure that the voice of fellow governments is heard when new policies are made, new legislation is made. The Secretary of State must do so, and he must take care of it. Moreover, the other colleagues in the cabinet should not have a blind spot for it. That is, of course, also very important. But of course the Secretary of State must do so. I myself am in many administrative discussions with the fellow governments, so the Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are in good contact with that. They have a sense of what's going on in the municipalities and provinces. They know what type of work it is and what it takes, administratively and financially. So yes, that position is important, even in the preliminary phase with that impact analysis. The only question is, how do you shape that? Is that position strong enough of itself or do you have to improve it somehow? I think that front is so very important. A right of veto sounds like a threat is needed to get a proposal off the table. On the contrary, I would like to make sure that you take care of it so well in the front that there is no need to put your fist on the table in the Council of Ministers and, more importantly, to threaten with a veto. That position just has to be very strong. I think we've really taken steps. We can do better, and we have to do better. You should do a sample yourself and ask municipalities, mayors, aldermen how they have experienced it. Then I think they'll say that BZK is better in position at those moments and takes that coordinating role. It not only co-ordinates it, but also takes that role from its content, thinks along and gets solutions for each other, financially and in terms of content. This is happening on the understanding that we know what is needed for those fellow governments to carry out their tasks. I would not need a veto myself, but I would need a strong position on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. You can shape them in different ways. That can be with co-signatory of laws or just from the coordinating task. It is very important that the Ministry makes all the preparations with that attitude. While we are talking about what is already enshrined in the law, I come to Mr Nicolaï's question on Article 117 of the Municipal Act. Indeed, it says: "Our minister promotes decentralisation in favour of municipalities." That's how it got into the law 30 years ago. Of course, there is a limitation in the law itself. On a decentralised basis, I would like to say yes, unless municipalities are unable to do so effectively or effectively. That caveat was made with it. This means that not everything necessarily needs to be decentralised, but if it can be effective and effective, then the Minister for Foreign Affairs is also supposed to promote it. I think this starts with the question: why would you want to invest a task with the municipality? Moreover, that task also applies to provinces of the same area, which is precisely the same under the Province Law, namely the promotion of decentralisation in favour of the provinces. It's also logical that you keep looking at what the appropriate level is. That is from the point of view: decentralised if it is possible and central if it is necessary. This can also be done within the legal system, but we need to look carefully at how to shape the necessary direction. That may be national direction, if the Empire has to do it, but of course it can also happen in a different way in the cooperation we have just talked about. Much has already been done under this section. I'd like to leave it at this point. Then I have a whole bunch of other questions and answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u210	On the last point about Rule 117. I was trying to explain that it was something 30 years ago. In this time frame, we may be looking at that differently. I wonder how the Minister looks at it. The Minister actually said in her answer: there must be a reason to decentralise. So you're assuming that there has to be evidence that it should be decentralised. The text, as it is contained in Rule 117, actually says something else, also in view of the ideas of that time. The text says: "No, it's supposed to be decentralised. Then there will be a burden of proof if you do not do it on a decentralised basis." Is this still of this time, given the life we have now ended up in and all that remains to be done in the next ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u211	If you looked back in those 30 years, you'd see it's fluctuated. It's been there for a long time. My argument concerns the following. It also says: if it is not effective or effective, then you do not do it. That means there's a choice. Self-contained if possible, but if there are good arguments for not choosing, then that is also good, legitimate and appropriate within the law as formulated here. If you're going to think about it and philosophize it, then it's true that in different times you might think differently about it. 30 years ago, the world did indeed look very different. Nevertheless, I think it is appropriate now to keep thinking about whether you could organize something decentralised. The discussion we are having about human size also requires that you try to get close to people. Of course, this does not necessarily have to go through municipalities. Mr Koole has just said that. This can be done, for example, through government-controlled implementation offices that can be organized locally and regionally closer to people. But we have the municipalities. There are also tasks associated with tasks carried out by municipalities. So I don't think it's weird that you keep asking yourself this question, but the answer doesn't have to be: the Minister for Foreign Affairs must always have the goal of everything being organized on a decentralised basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u212	I came back to it because I read the VNG position paper in such a way that it would be certain that it is always an autonomy of the municipality and that it can only be violated under circumstances. You might read that in that provision, but I have the idea... I hear the Minister also say and I hope she agrees with me on that point. That human measure is not included in the determination. The human measure should just be reached at all, whether you deconcentration or decentralise it. It was only about which level of administration we are talking about... I am glad that the Minister says that it depends on the time frame and the circumstances and that the primacy does not automatically lie with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u213	My explanation of how it stands in the law is that the law also allows for this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u214	The Minister also mentioned the position of the Minister of the Interior. If I understand correctly, she says that the coordinating role must be strong and rather stronger, partly because it allows you to regulate and clarify the overview within the government of everything in the area of local government. The idea of a right of veto was discussed. The minister wasn't in favour of that, but she did say that co-signing of laws could be good. I thought it was really good to hear that. Is the Minister also prepared to include the issue of co-signatory of laws in the formation process in one way or another? I also ask whether what the Council of State says could apply. It also proposes to lay down the co-signatory of laws, which strengthens the formal position of the minister. The Council of State also says that co-responsibility should be given to budget transfers linked to decentralisation and to the justification for the way in which the financial consequences of decentralisation are covered. It must, of course, still be done in conjunction and cooperation with the other departments of the trade. The Minister of the Interior will then formally be given a stronger position, for example through the co-signatory, to ensure that the unity of policy is guaranteed as much as possible towards the co-governments, of which the Minister of the Interior is the guardian.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u215	Mr Koole has a lot to consider. I agree with part of it. However, I am also looking very closely at what I already have, or what the Minister of Foreign Affairs already has, to play that role, for example the legal mandate to promote the freedom of local authorities. The Financial Relationship Act also gives the Minister of BZK an important role together with the colleague of Finance. The law also requires early consultation with the Minister of BZK if policy proposals are expressed by colleagues from other departments that affect local authorities. So I actually already have a whole range of instruments and powers that I can use or that the Ministry can use. I think we're getting better and better at doing that, too. I myself attach very much to the preparation side, to the so-called impact analysis. I would also really like BZK to be very closely involved in this. There are situations in which the Minister of Foreign Affairs is co-signatory of laws. We've seen that in the Temporary Law measures for the Corona Policy. This was partly due to the responsibility for the municipalities in this case. The question is whether it is always necessary to achieve what we want. This is because a proper balance is made on the front and sufficient account is taken of the feasibility and the financial area. Quite frankly, I think that the Minister of Trade should have just as much interest in ensuring that it is properly arranged. The Minister for Foreign Affairs must, of course, pay attention to this, but it should not be the case that if the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not play that role, other departments will continue to do so as they did. No, of course those lessons apply to all of us. These are the lessons of the three major decentralisations of 2015, the lessons of other decentralisations and the way in which we are now working on a number of major dossiers. The latter are not decentralisations, as they are sometimes referred to here. For example, the Environment Act is a very large system change. So that is not a decentralisation, but a major change in the system. We are already working on two cabinet periods. I've got that wallet now, but it wasn't in BZK before. I realize very well that it is incredibly important to take the fellow governments well into it and to organize the finances properly. The same applies to my colleague from SZW, who is working on the Law of Integration. This is not a decentralisation either, but the municipality has a very important role to play. This has required a great deal of consultation. I am involved as Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I do not know whether it would be necessary for me to be a co-signator of that law. I'd like a little room in that and I don't want that for every law. I do not think that the Minister of Finance is a signatory of any law, but he is always involved because of the budgetary side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u216	Of course, it's the most beautiful thing when everything goes well and the departments are well involved. However, at an earlier stage of the debate, you said that they should want to. That's exactly the point. It is not for nothing that both the UNG and the Council of State call this. If it is necessary for those cases that it does not go as it should, as rightly described, then you can say: yes, but I do have to co-sign, so I come to the table. That's kind of a guarantee for the eventuality you'd rather not see realized. That is actually the intention of co-signing, as is stated in all reports. I would like to ask the Minister once again: is this not a bonus which will ultimately enable you to achieve what the Minister himself described, namely the cooperation of all the departments of the trade with a view to serving the local authorities as effectively as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u217	I am not saying no to it either, especially as Mr Koole puts it now. If it's really necessary, it might be a good tool to bet. I take the advice very seriously on that point, but there are also other ways of exerting influence from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I mentioned the social domain. There's an Administrative Social Domain. I, the Secretary of State, chair that. There's a National Regietable Migration and Integration; I'm in front of it too. The portfolio holder is simply the Secretary of State for J and V. We have regular administrative consultations every two weeks on the implementation of the agreements we have made on the childcare allowance issue. I am in favour of it, Mr van Financiën and Mr van SZW are in favour of it, and also the representatives of the municipalities, because it is very specific about all kinds of implementation problems in which the municipalities are badly needed. That's another way, but again, I'm not ruling it out. I think it can be really useful in some cases. I'm just wondering if it's supposed to be a legal thing to do with every law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u218	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u219	I note that the Minister does not rule out the possibility of co-signing. Then it must be in the law, even if you wouldn't use it every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u220	I'm gonna take a really good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u221	I hear the Minister mention the national director's tables, at least the National Regietable Migration, of which she is the chairman herself. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she is in charge of, or is involved in, the way in which people's representatives are involved at both central and decentralised level. How can they learn about, for example, reports, documents and other matters, so that transparency of such management tables is promoted and it is not just an internal administrative matter? How's the Minister handling that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u222	That is, of course, a legitimate and important point. Those sitting at the table usually do not only represent their own congregation. The representatives are generally aldermen, but sometimes mayors, deputies and Commissioners of the King, a little dependent on the subject we are discussing. This means that they are either present on behalf of their dome, i.e. on behalf of the VNG, or on behalf of their own congregation or both. This means that there are different channels for organising this democratic anchoring. That could be direct. For example, if someone represents his own municipality, it is simply the alderman who is accountable to the city council. If it's for the VNG, it's something else. But in every municipality where an alderman is the delegation to the VNG, that is of course known. The moment that you are on behalf of your fellow aldermen who represent a particular portfolio in such a consultation, it is also known in your own congregation. As far as I know, the reports are just public at the end, but I should check. At least they are distributed to all participants and there is nothing secret about it, but I will double check it for Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u223	Thanks for the commitment to check that out. But the point is, this is the theory. I myself am in the unique opportunity to be active both at local level and at provincial level and in this Chamber. And at all these levels, I've already asked for such reports. I have already asked about the organisation and transparency of such management tables. And at every level I hear: yes, but this lies with the government. Or it's said that the CdK does, and it's not under the control of Provincial States. Or elsewhere we are told: yes, but that is done by the alderman. And the alderman sent me back to... So I'm being sent from the locker to the wall and it's a very unclear situation at such intergovernmental consultation tables. So my question to the Minister is: how can a clearer complex be created there in terms of accountability, control, and a piece of framework and direction, in a way that enables the parliament to better grasp and control that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u224	I think it is a good ambition and I am in favour of transparency. It also depends a bit on the specific gremium; let us also be clear about that. That particular gremium must also make a choice. I often choose to just answer through the Chamber. For example, we also do this at the National Regietable Migration and Integration. You know, after a meeting like this, it's just a letter of office. But I would be happy to look again at how this has been organised by consultation. Sometimes it will run through the umbrella organisation, through the VNG, sometimes it will happen directly. But everyone's goal is, of course, to achieve good decision-making with each other. And in order to do something about this decision-making, you will, of course, have to include your people's representatives in it and you will have to inform her about it. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u225	Mr. Van Hattem, third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u226	Thank you to the Minister for her willingness to look at that. It seems practical to me to make a kind of integrated battle. People's representatives must be able to see: there are these kinds of consultations, these are the agendas, and then and then there is a consultation. It needs to be looked at in a structural way. Now something is being discussed within a college, within the VNG or within the Council of Ministers, or perhaps even within a department. However, as a representative of the people, you simply have a very limited view of what is actually happening at consultative tables and intergovernmental consultations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u227	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u228	So can we also look at that integrality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u229	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u230	Well, that's just not it. We are just talking about a multitude of regional partnerships. There is a multitude of municipalities, provinces, waterboards and so on. There is also a multitude of this kind of consultation. I don't have the illusion that I have a complete overview of that. I can only tell you about the discussions I mentioned and how we work in them. But I say again: transparency is the starting point. And the agenda of the Council of Ministers is also completely public today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u231	Let's go to your last block. I propose to the Chamber that we keep interruptions all the way to the end of that block. So if you indicate when that end has been reached, Minister, Members will also know that they can intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u232	Fine, I'd love to. Everything's a little messed up, for which I apologize. I hope I do justice to everyone and answer all the questions. Mr Van Hattem asked about the scaling-up of municipalities. He actually asked: do we know that it works, because also large municipalities have implementation problems? There have been a lot of evaluations of reclassifications. This shows that it does indeed strengthen administrative power. That is a word that is not popular with everyone, but administrative power is needed to do what you as a municipality should be able to do for your residents. There are also studies that state: a reclassification does not necessarily provide a financial advantage, so you should not do it for that. And a financial advantage is rarely the motive for a reclassification. If a smaller municipality merges into a larger whole, there may also be the disadvantage that the residents experience more distance from the board. Yeah, that's right, of course, because the scale is getting bigger. So there are pros and there are cons, but if a reclassification is chosen, it generally happens so that the services and performance of that government increase, and thus the tasks of the municipality can be carried out better. Mr Van Hattem also addressed the Regional Energy Strategies. He suggested that everyone should reinvent the wheel, because everyone has to make such an energy strategy. It is indeed a structure that you create with that energy transition, in which different levels of government play a role. It is bottom-up: those RESs, those regional energy strategies, are about 30 regions, precisely to avoid all choices being made here, that the lower levels are passed and that the choices they want and which fit that local and regional level are not made. It is therefore logical to take the specific characteristics of regions and areas as a starting point, including the necessary spatial integration. Regional directors therefore have a leading role to play. They must ensure that there is sufficient participation for those involved and they must ensure that local representatives can also play their part in this. What we now see is where we stand with the RES's, is that these plans really give a concrete insight into the framework conditions needed to implement the energy strategy. That is very important for the continuation and for the real shape of that energy transition. I think that has given us a very good basis from the bottom up. Indeed, not everyone has to reinvent the wheel. That is why they are also heavily supported. Mr Van Hattem also had a kind of follow-up question about the framework role of councils. Municipal councils are more than that. They are indeed frameworks, they are controllers and they are representatives of the people. The college must implement that policy and govern it. How do the councils fill in this framework role? By adopting motions, by tabling amendments and by making own-initiative proposals. They actually define the main lines and they also take the final responsibility by voting in favour of proposals. Each council can elaborate on this in a certain way. That happens differently, but I do not believe that that is because there would be uncertainty about what can be done, but simply because political choices are made in it. I do agree that sometimes guessing is just difficult and that a lot of work comes towards them. If you are not careful as a councilman, you drown under the paper and the pieces you get, you will not get to be in touch with the people for whom you do it all and you don't actually see the big headlines through all the papers anymore. I do believe that it is right and perhaps better to support it. I just gave the example of the RES, where we are really trying to do so. In this way you can try to improve it specifically by topic. We have just spoken about the provision of information. We also talked about public management. Mr Van der Voort had actually made a bit of the same point: how can these municipal councils be better helped? But I think that his speech was mainly about the decentralisation itself. I told you, support for those councilmen is very important. This also applies, of course, to decentralisation. We have the so-called cooperation programme Democracy in Action. With this we have been able to offer a lot of support to councils, for example in the social domain. This is, of course, one of those areas where a great deal of decentralisation is concerned. Then how can you support those council members? That's often about very practical things. That's really about creating a digital learning environment for them. Now, with corona, it was also convenient to do it this way. It's about very practical tools: webinars and just learning from others how to do it. Of course, they should be able to count on the Registry, the Court of Auditors, their own group support and wider administrative assistance. Also a bit based on my own experience and what I hear from congregations now, I think there is actually more than what council members sometimes use. They can really appeal even more to the support there is. Council members often tend to do a lot of themselves. We have also had an information campaign that has encouraged the use of what has already been done. But it may well be that more is needed. In any case, I believe that the position of the municipal councils should be further strengthened. The House of Representatives has also called for this. So I'm trying to work with the interest groups that are there for council members and statesmen to strengthen their position. I also use the advice of the ROB for that. I come to Mr Van der Voort. We have just discussed the financial effects of decentralisation. As I said, that's not really a good motive. You don't have to decentralize to achieve efficiency. But that was the case, also because it was agreed at the time in the coalition agreement. That financial argument simply had a great deal of weight at the time, so too little thought was given to the implementation practice. So that's a lesson we have to learn. Mr Van der Voort asked specifically about integration. As I said, it is not really a decentralisation, because the tasks are already invested in the municipalities. However, Mr Koolmees of SZW has talked very intensively about the tasks that municipalities get in this new integration system. It's not the same as the present one. That's a change. But that was precisely about what ambitions you have and what resources you have. You have to take your time. That's what happened. This resulted in administrative agreements. Then I come to Mr Van der Voort's theorem: if you decentralise, isn't there a certain inequality by definition? Because indeed, one church is not the other. In some cases, you might want to be able to agree on a kind of pre-condition of a minimum quality level. I thought Mr Van der Voort mentioned the Wmo. Very specific about the Wmo, the following. It is, of course, difficult to say something here about whether it is possible, whether it is necessary and how you should do it: do you have to normalize it, then what is the right way? In general, I think you should ask yourself: do the municipalities have enough tools to do the job and to control their costs when they do that job? If it isn't, maybe you should put more responsibility on the Empire. But, yes, if the Empire is going to bear the financial risk, the Empire will decide more. So there is, of course, a certain balance. If you invest it all on a decentralised basis, give it sufficient resources and freedom of policy. If you do it differently, then there is also something about freedom of policy and the financial risk goes away. I think that's the balance you're looking for in there. I think you should always keep in mind that there are indeed differences between municipalities. You want a minimum quality level, but you don't necessarily always have to impose it from above and can also rely on the implementation of the same municipalities. I think we have already said a lot about child care. Mr Verkerk's question on legal inequality is somewhat in line with Mr Van der Voort's question. Are there social differences acceptable in the Netherlands? I thought Mr Verkerk said that. Yeah, there are differences. You don't want legal inequality. And, of course, it is not the case that any difference by definition means that there is legal inequality. Mr Van der Burg mentioned a number of examples of differences between cities and municipalities. Cultural policy, for example, can vary greatly from one municipality to another. But that's not so bad, I guess. That's fine; municipalities just make choices about that. It is the councils that make the choice; it is also political choices. But when it comes to matters in the social domain, for example, I think it is becoming more complicated; then we really do not want it to be. Then we imagine, also as legislators: this is what we want to achieve. And then you want people, no matter where they live, to know that they can rely on it, if they need to. The legislator then also determines the space, or it actually limits the space, which municipalities have in it. But even there, I think it should not be a total restriction. But driven from the citizen, you have to be able to count on certain rights, regardless of your place in the Netherlands. Then Mr Van der Voort pointed out that municipalities spend a lot of money on youth care, for example, but that many of these revenues do not actually go to the needy youth, but end up with health insurers, for example. He also suggested, I thought, that they might be able to pay for it. This is the so-called split incentive to invest in the prevention of care; a well-known focus. A number of regions are also working on agendas for which insurers are involved and can also contribute financially, as he indeed outlined. Of course, that can be very helpful. As a result, municipalities can make a better choice in what they should and can do, in what their financial resources are and the possibilities they have to steer. A follow-up question would then be: should this become mandatory, should insurers do so? Well, that's an issue that my colleague Blokhuis, the Secretary of State of VWS, has on the desk. That goes a lot into the contents of his wallet. But the subject is known, and so it is considered and looked at by various parties. Now for the action plan. I said: before 1 May, an action plan to the House of Representatives on these administrative and financial relations. I have just said that, also in relation to the formation, we are in the process of working together with the local authorities. I had indeed promised the House of Representatives an action plan for the summer, so before the summer recess a letter on the strengthening of the decentralised administration. This is done again in consultation with the other governments, and it is about that position of the Councils and the States, about support for the framework of the various co-governments, and also about strengthening that framework, strengthening control, as part of those political processes. And I'll get that same advice from the Public Administration Board. Let's see. I think we've had Social Services. Yes, a very different point from Mr Schalk. I think he would have seen Mr Depla's appeal this morning. He said: should we not slow down the central crisis approach, the central corona approach, but certainly a little bit and now take a local approach? I've seen it, too. By the way, he sketched a reality that is different from how I experience it, but it is true that on Sundays there is often a meeting in the Catshuis. And I can tell you, as a D66 man, that I've been looking at Sunday rest quite differently after this past year. I have received much more appreciation for this, as I say to Mr Schalk. Because, yeah, if you don't have it, you're gonna miss it all of a sudden. But these are exceptional times, and so are colleagues who normally do very different things on Sundays. So emergency breaks the law here, too. But what we do: on Sunday we have the Catshuis, on Monday the Security Council. On Tuesday we still have the Ministerial Commission; and that is also where the decisions fall. So it is only after thorough consultation with the OMT, with the security regions, that the decision falls on Tuesday. I believe that the press conference has just taken place; I have missed it. And then the Chamber debates. That is the structure that exists now, which we have legally enshrined in the Temporary Measures Act. That Temporary Measures Act provides for a role for the municipalities and can also be held accountable by mayors to their own municipal councils. At the moment, we are still in a very difficult and extremely serious form of the pandemic, but as you can reduce it, according to the Temporary Measures Act, you will increasingly come close to municipalities that can bear the responsibility themselves. In the model I understand it very well, but the model requires that you can scale up and down. In doing so, we have eyes on the municipalities, which are fully involved. I have just referred to the Security Regions Act, where we have the evaluation and where the experiences of the past year will also be involved in dealing with the corona crisis if JenV's colleague takes steps. Mr Nicolaï had a question about the integrated balancing framework. This is also something for which my colleague from JenV is responsible, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a role to play in the area of intergovernmental relations. New proposals are already under consideration. That is already in place, but the comprehensive balancing framework is being updated. Those elements which concern intergovernmental relations must also be involved, and I will also include the recommendations made by the Council of State in this regard. Mr Van der Linden asked about the local parties and the subsidies. He found it striking that national parties receive subsidies and not local parties. I agree with him and anyone who says that local parties play an important role in local democracy. I have also said many times that we need to think of something to solve this inequality. That would mean that you should see if you can create a structural subsidy. I think we should. I have already been able to take a small step myself by creating and subsidising a knowledge base for local political parties. That point of knowledge is now there and receives an annual grant, so that it can play a role at least until 2024. As far as I am concerned, that could be a way to finance local parties in the future. Local parties provide by far the majority of council members, and if I am well informed by now also most aldermen. They are very valuable and important parties in local democracy. Then Mr Van der Linden had another question. He said that central and decentralised sometimes wrings, and you can see that at Leidsche Rijn, for example, in urban construction, which is all terribly expensive. I have already mentioned this afternoon that living is an area where the various governments need each other. Build the municipalities. Of course, they do not do so themselves, but the municipalities decide what can be built. The province is needed for building capacity and the Empire is also needed, because it is a huge task and we must also direct it. For example, see what we could have done with the housing deals. This requires intensive consultation between several authorities to make agreements with each other. They look different everywhere. And why? Because the needs are different. I've noticed that from the moment I was able to raise money from the central government for the housing impulse, I could better steer it. Then you can also make sure that there is more affordable construction. Now we have a new instrument with the Housing Fund and we can also improve the quality of life in urban areas. Mr Van der Linden himself has ideas about this. We can look at vulnerable areas in cities, we can look at shrinking areas, we can look at border regions. With the Housing Fund you not only look at the housing, but also at the quality of the living environment, and that is more than the quality of living. That instrument is now there, that is one-off money, and I think it is still necessary to take initiatives of this kind for the time being. So, I think it's a policy area where a lot has to be done. Affordability is indeed a problem. There are all kinds of causes underneath. One thing is for sure: if the different governments don't visit each other to discuss and solve that, nothing will happen. You have to find each other. The task is very great. Everyone wants it, too, and we have really taken steps in that direction. It just takes time. Mr. Chairman. I am a little hesitant because some of the issues have been reviewed, but let me conclude by saying that I hope I have answered most of the questions now, some in the event of interruption and some in the case of this heading. If I've missed anything, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u233	Who was first? Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u234	I hear the Minister say that she will take a number of things into account in the context of the adaptation of the IAK. However, I would very much like to have the Minister's promise that other people in the house have asked for this too. A financial assessment is being made of the resources needed for the decentralised allocation of tasks. The Council of State thought of the Central Planning Bureau in the information, but it could also be another body. That is really something that is essential when we talk about our honking duties as the First Chamber and what is also essential for the review by the Council of State. On that point, I am missing clarity from the Minister's side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u235	I hope that I am talking about the same point as Mr Nicolaï, because what I have just wanted to say is that I think that in the future, in the case of new decentralisations or when reviewing existing ones, we should do that impact analysis on the front, and that is what this is about. Those who have to do that on the financial side, I do want to look at that. Is that supposed to be CPB or are we gonna do it another way? But it's part of that impact analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u236	It is a good thing that the Minister responds to this. I am happy about this too, but what matters is that the Council of State says that it must be an independent body from the department. That is the essential point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u237	We agree on that. The CPB is quite obvious, I would say, but there may also be other suggestions for it. I think it is very worth considering saying that by default an independent institution should look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u238	The Minister responded to a question by Mr Verkerk whether there could be differences in rights between citizens in the Netherlands. She said: in the field of culture, for example, you see great differences, but in the social domain that is more difficult, because there you have more unity in how things are. Apart from the fact that you would record whether someone is entitled to a city theatre or a concert hall, you can see differences in the social domain, even in the situations described by the minister. When we agree that this minimum package in the Wmo must be met throughout the Netherlands, this means that the minimum package is guaranteed throughout the Netherlands. This may still mean that on the basis of the Wmo in The Hague, this is an arbitrary example, Chairman... has no right to a second means to transport you, whereas you do have that right in Zoetermeer if that is not in the minimum package. Municipalities are still competent, and are also free to say that they are increasing the number of providers of services and also the number of facilities that can be used. On that point, I would almost like to request a correction from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u239	Not a question, but a correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u240	That's just right, what Mr Van der Burg says. I have also argued that I believe that there should always be freedom of policy. You shouldn't make it absolutely absolute and say: it's the same everywhere. But I responded to the theorem that sometimes you should have some sort of minimum level, which is generally the same everywhere. I think that we in the Netherlands agree that people should at least be able to be sure that they can fall back on something. The fact that policy choices can still be made and that they can be implemented is a fact. It is also a fact that freedom of policy in the social domain is much more limited than, for example, in the field of art and culture. I don't think we'd mind that much with each other. Not every town needs a city theatre. It's fine that people sometimes have to travel to another municipality for that. We don't think that's such a problem. In the social domain there is a lot organized in the legislation, because with it you pursue certain goals, which you think someone should be able to rely on, regardless of whether he lives in Friesland, Limburg or South Holland. It is not black and white, but has many shades of color. The bottomline is that in all cases there is a form of policy freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u241	First of all, I would like to thank Mr van der Burg, who has put a number of questions to me. Thank you, too, for the Minister's answers. I just had one more question about the Regional Deals and the City Deals. In my contribution, I deliberately used the term "social contradictions." If certain policies are implemented from The Hague in conjunction with the authorities, I understand that regions and municipalities that have great plans will be able to raise money more easily than other regions. The danger is that social contradictions will grow at some point. I am thinking of a region such as South-East Limburg, where we really have great concerns in all kinds of areas. The logic of not investing there might be pretty big, because it makes more sense if you invest somewhere else. However, the social contradictions are disastrous for the development of society as a whole. My question to you is whether you share these thoughts with me. If so, what is your influence as Minister of the Interior and how could we deal with it? I do not just advocate pumping a lot of money into regions, but I would like to announce this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u242	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u243	As is often the case, Mr Verkerk's question is comprehensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u244	Nevertheless, I am going to ask you to try to give a concise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u245	I'm gonna try to give you a short answer anyway. For starters, the Regional Deals. That's what he brought up. The Region Deals are there for the whole of the Netherlands. We have looked very closely at the quality of the proposals and the problems. That is why, for example, border areas have been highly eligible for this. That's good, I guess. Now those Regional Deals are a catalyst. It's one-time money that you can get something done, but then it has to go on. Provincial and municipal involvement is often needed. These are often initiatives involving companies, for example, which generate jobs. If it's really very complicated somewhere, like the example we know in Rotterdam-Zuid, then it's not enough to go ahead with a City Deal or a Region Deal once. Then you really have to persevere over several cabinet and council periods. That's about much more complicated problems, which you really don't solve by making a nice appointment with each other once. I would like to talk a little longer, but I think the President will look very closely at me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u246	That's right. Mr. Verkerk, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u247	I'll ask a very short question. I would very much like to see this point tightened where necessary, because social contradictions are deadly for cohesion. I believe that the Minister of the Interior has an important role to play in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u248	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u249	We're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u250	I would like to zoom in on two points. You were talking about the cake that needs to be bigger. You didn't mention how you felt about it. It would be interesting if you could tell me about that. We are thinking, among other things, of introducing a system under the Municipal Fund revaluation law in order not to allow any municipality to deteriorate. That could be a starting point. What could that mean financially? That's a question. Perhaps you have the answer ready. This may be possible in the second term. We talked about inequality and unequal treatment. I refer to the four major cities. Since 1995, therefore, for more than 25 years, they have had an additional 250 million, now rising to 400 million. There was no justification in relation to other municipalities. They did not show any additional costs. That was the way it was introduced at the time. I read in the sections on redistribution that you're going to reduce that 400 million to 100 million. The question is why it doesn't go to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u251	What's there isn't a proposal yet. It is indeed about a redistribution. It's based on the existing size. I have just said that redistribution always means that if there is something else going on somewhere else. That's the complexity of it. This means that this is not really appropriate with the current deficits. Of course, you can make improvements in the system. This concerns, among other things, the issue of the G4. I have also had many and intrusive conversations with the G4. It is also very difficult for them to get out of there. You take this to zero, it's gonna be a lot harder. But again, this is not a proposal. It's actually an intermediate step that we're going to take a much closer look at now. I hope that this is on the way to something that should lead in formation to better arrangements about the system as such and how it works, and as far as I am concerned also about additional resources. I come to Mr Raven's first point. You can say: just fill it up, so that not one municipality has any more problems. On the other hand, we also have to do justice to it if you're doing well for each other, and if you've just arranged your municipal finances very neatly. Then you shouldn't be punished by that, I'll say. I think that's important. The provinces are the regulators. They do that very well. As I said earlier, the financial problems have deteriorated considerably in a short time. Where there has been deterioration, you have to deal with it. At the same time, municipalities should normally pursue a net fiscal policy. I believe that we should be able to count on this together, together with the provinces, the municipalities, the aldermen's finances and the municipal councils. Something too easy to say "we're plus everything" is not the best starting point in my opinion. You need to look at where the problem arose and why, and whether this has to do with the tasks and with a disbalance between those tasks and the finances. In some cases, we already know that, for example in the Youth Act. Other things we don't know exactly yet. So I think it is a little too short to simply adapt Mr Raven's proposal here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u252	I would have thought so, but you could study on that again. You haven't really given up on how you think the cake should get bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u253	Choices will have to be made, let me put it equally neutrally with regard to youth care. We know that a large part of the financial problems have arisen there. If we want to keep everything exactly as it is, you have to say: there will have to be money. This year, for example, has chosen to do so. But we're also going to take management measures. I can imagine, for example, that from the content of what you want to achieve in youth care you are going to distinguish complicated, really complex youth care. It is now also invested in the municipalities. You might wonder if you want to keep that up. I have no idea, but I think you should think about that. In other forms of youth care, it is only through supply that a very large demand is emerging. These are very different areas and target groups, within the same domain called youth care. Of course, you could make choices to control the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u254	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u255	There has also been talk about the scaling-up discount, and that you also have a feeling of abolishing it. In fact, you indicated: as far as I am concerned, that could be the direction. Is it correct that this amounts to 5 billion from 2025?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u256	For the scaling-up discount only? I should check that out. I know it's coming up, but I'm afraid to tell you what it's gonna be like from that year on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u257	Maybe that's something for the second term. Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u258	I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that a great deal of thought has been given to the Integration Act and to the financial effects it will have. I'm glad you're confident it's gonna be okay. But there are other signals coming out of the field, which are quite strong. So I'm not exactly reassured. In addition, the Minister indicated that it would be a good idea for another body, for example the CPB, to pass on further decentralisations that are coming. Wouldn't it be a good idea, if you combine this, to look again at the Civilization Act while we still can, to prevent us from getting into the situation as with the Youth Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u259	My comment on the CPB, the impact analysis and that kind of thing is indeed aimed at future decentralisations or improvements to existing laws. Around integration, I think, we can see that we want to look so closely at the feasibility at the front and the costs, so we can look at the finances needed to achieve it in a good, viable way for the municipality that you will not find any problems afterwards. That would be the approach I advocate. We know from a number of decentralisations, at least those from 2015, that it did not happen that way. That is where it has also stalled on a number of points. Mr Van der Voort is sending out signals here that he is getting about the integration. It is also important for my colleague from SZW to know that and to take those signals into account, but I am not in a position here to say that we are going to do so now, because the decision-making process is, of course, much further. So we cannot now impose retroactively on a route that is already running. I don't think that's feasible. But I agree with Mr Van der Voort that we want it to work for integration, and perhaps for integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u260	Finally, Mr. Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u261	But we are now, of course, in a situation where we can look at it again. If it's a fact next year, it can't be anymore. However, it is of course up to you and your colleague to do so or not. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u262	I'll take it with me. Again, I assume he's already taken it into account. I hope he answers that when I ask him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u263	Mr. Chairman. I apologize for just walking forward during the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u264	That was really nice, so not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u265	I was so worried about that inequality we talked about. I was thinking about it. If you are not careful, decentralisation can create inequality on many topics: policy space, administrative power, executive power, financial resources, a much too small municipality. Is it conceivable that, in the case of decentralisation, you will be able to differentiate more, for example on the basis of scale, or on the basis of partnerships or something like that, so that we do not get into the situation where there are actually too small units with too many tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u266	I think it is very important to take that into account. I mentioned just now, a little bit between the nose and the lips, that the very complex youth care is completely decentralised to the municipalities. In hindsight, you might ask yourself whether that was wise, because that is not feasible and feasible for every municipality. So in that sense I agree with Mr Schalk. But we're doing it, of course. There is a lot of specific legislation, for example for the security regions we have just talked about and the labour market regions. The environmental services have been mentioned. There is therefore much that has already been regulated on that scale and therefore does not necessarily have to be carried out on the scale of the smallest municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u267	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u268	I agree with you, but the examples you mention relate precisely to regional cooperation. I am referring to the situation where it is actually deposited with a municipality. That's where you get the inequality that my colleague Van der Voort pointed out this morning. Is it conceivable that we are also co-legislators and we have to look at the feasibility of a law that states that you do not bring that into all municipalities, but only at a certain scale or something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u269	Well, it's possible. You can also give the so-called center municipalities a greater responsibility. So you can definitely do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u270	Finally, Mr Van der Linden. Then we will begin the second half of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u271	I had a question for the Minister about the subsidy to local parties versus the national parties. I note that the Minister has become very positive about this in a few years' time. In the beginning it was: there is no money for it. Now is: I want to, but we have to see how. It's just a matter of political will, isn't it? You're either making a budget for it or you're not. It's as simple as that. Then it's a political choice. Is that right? And a second point: the Minister indicated that the Knowledge Point Local Political Parties is at least something. Suggestion: make it a key national political parties and do that grant for a year to the local parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u272	It's two things. Yeah, there's got to be money for it. That's one. But the money also needs to go to those local parties, and that's a little more complicated. That is the advantage of parties that also have a rural place, because that money distributes much easier. It is much more complicated to get the money from all those, perhaps more than 300, local parties. I do not know the exact number, because there can be more of them per municipality, and they cannot be in every municipality. But there is no infrastructure for it. It has to be created. It's all possible. They can make grant applications. You can put that all the way down with them. One profites from it and the other doesn't. But that must be set up: budget and a good way of getting it to those parties in a fair way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u273	If you decentralise that benefit through the municipality and make the budget available for it, I think it will be arranged in this way. My final question: does the Minister wish to see funding for local parties included with the informant?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u274	I don't know if I can do that on behalf of the fellow governments, but if I get the chance myself, I'll be happy to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u275	Thank you. We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden, who has traded with Mr Van Gurp. I note this for those who are wondering whether the list is still correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You asked for courtesy at the beginning of the debate, which has been going on for some time. I would like to thank Mr Van Gurp for changing places today for this second term. Because of the typical theme of this debate - central and decentralised government - I am a bit on hot coal, because there is a council meeting going on where I also have obligations. But I'm trying to do it as neatly as I can. Mr. Chairman. Today is certainly a useful debate. It is a bit long, but it also offers a lot of insight and parties express themselves on how they see the relationship central and decentralised government. Thank you also to the Minister for the open attitude and the comprehensive response and reflection. My bet today was the human size back. The Minister also points out that this human measure is very important. I've been talking about more resources. Opportunities to save, from the bottom up, the Minister points out, is a good starting point. The scaling-up discount on the table is an ambition that is also shared, with a positive advice to the informant, we understood. And I talked about fixing the reductions on the three decentralisations in terms of resources. On that last point, I have one more point. Amounts were mentioned. There's been a significant drop in the percentage. My follow-up question was: has that recovered in the years after? There has been some compensation, but are we at the level without those discounts or is there still a gap? And if so, how much? And how do we solve that? I've been talking about the possibilities. What should be true in Thorbecke's house? This is widely shared by parties. What's on which floor? I also recognised myself in many points made by other speakers. Then there are the wishes which the Minister says he will give to the informant when asked to do so. However, I would like to say a few words about the debate on the interruption. The informant's gonna start tomorrow if it's okay. Would it not be a good thing, for the second term of the Minister, to send the advice she is going to do to the Chambers as part of the new administrative culture and also to invite the House of Representatives and this Chamber to look into it? The Lower House can thus become a primate and the picket poles become part of the new administrative culture. Then the debates will be conducted in the same way in the Chamber. The minister indicated that she wanted to do it nicely as it was agreed. My question is then: who is to be dealt with? The Chamber will certainly not be angry if the Minister shares that information with the Chamber. The Chamber will, I presume, be pleased and will be happy to discuss it. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two more motions that I would like to table. The first concerns subsidies to local parties. The: Mr Van der Linden, Mr Nanninga, Mr Beuker, Mr Berkhout and Mr Raven proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that national political parties receive millions of euros per year through the Wfpp, which they can use for campaigns, courses and support to their local departments;]] [[noting that local political parties, despite increasing votes in municipal elections, cannot claim these Wfpp funds;]] [[Whereas a level playing field is democratically desirable and important for balance in decentralised power and counterpower;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Home Affairs budget for 2022 a proposal for a different distribution of grants under the Wfpp, whereby local political parties, like national political parties, can claim Wfpp grant in a proportionate manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VII-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u277	Then I have a motion on scale reduction and human size, all in line with this debate. The: Mr Van der Linden, Mr Beuker, Mr Nanninga and Mr Berkhout proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[notes that in recent decades the number of Dutch municipalities has been drastically reduced by municipal reclassifications, increasing the distance between citizens and local government;]] [[Notes that a scaling-up discount is still planned, which is short on their budgets and based on scaling-up;]] [[Considers that the human dimension should guide the establishment of local government and that, therefore, not scaling up, but scaling down should be the starting point in terms of political and popular representation;]] [[calls on the Minister to remove the planned scaling-up reduction and instead to use the human dimension as a starting point for policies for local authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VII-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u278	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u279	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We heard the Minister say today: the house of Thorbecke stands. That was the Minister's literal quote. I've been trying to picture what Thorbecke's house looks like right now. The description that would be found on the real estate agency website Funda is not very good, I'm afraid. We see the house of Thorbecke and there are some messy structures attached to it for all kinds of regional collaborations that house in it. In the house the necessary backrooms are bricked where shadowy consultation tables are chorded. Then the lower floor is completely reorganised. The residents no longer have their own room, but are all lying together on larger and larger halls. The land under the house is pawned to the European Union, to the EU, to the great landowner Timmermans. His rent is getting higher and higher, as are his demands. Also from the top floor of the house of Thorbecke a servant bell has been installed towards the lower floors, which chimes to dedicate the IBP statements, the tasks of the Interadministrative Program. That's encouraged here. The stronger minister of BZK then attracts this call more and more often, to fill the garden of the house of Thorbecke with the necessary wind turbines or to build houses for status holders on the plots of the municipal residents, where the status holders should be housed as a priority. The Minister of BZK has cracked all floors of the house of Thorbecke and put into service as a ministerial office house. Each floor needs to be down-to-earthed. Autonomy exists only for the Amsterdam canal ring. What would Thorbecke think if he found his house like that? Mr. Chairman. I also heard the Minister say that the RESs, the Regional Energy Strategies, prevent the choices from being made nationwide and that the implementation takes place at regional level. That's actually a misconception of the problem. The implementation is local, but it only concerns determining where those terrible wind turbines and those solar parks are allowed. But the tasks, and therefore the framework, are top-down from the Ministry. These are tasks that the municipal councils are not involved in, while the local framework is so essential. The Public Administration Board reports in its report "Decentral case is a political matter. Towards a steering role of the city council in the social domain last year is not for nothing what it is all about in terms of framework: "Basing is to standardise the content, financial and procedural playing field on which the college exercises its administrative powers. Framework arrangement is therefore equivalent to contract formulation, including framework conditions within which the college develops a particular subject." It is therefore a question of standardizing, command formulation and framework conditions. In doing so, the Board should also establish indicators to check whether results are being achieved and whether the policy process is being followed and thereby being evaluated. The Minister said that he would take the advice of the ROB and take it very seriously. The ROB also says: "The Empire sometimes interferes with local policy and thus affects municipal autonomy." Thus, while the ROB advises to strengthen the steering role of the municipal councils on all fronts, the councils are not given any guidance and framework by the minister, the Intergovernmental Programme, the Regional Deals and the Regional Energy Strategies. As a result, they are more and more sidetracked. In short, can the Minister explain how her task-driven approach relates to this ROB advice to strengthen the steering role of the councils? About the Security Council and the control of council members, the Minister indicates that it is now being evaluated. When can we expect the results of this, because right now it is urgent to be able to take a critical look at it? What does the Minister do as a system leader, including for this Security Council, for example, for council members who are already dealing with questions of accountability surrounding the Security Council? Do they have to wait for this evaluation, or does the Minister have any suggestions as to what they can already effectively use to check this? Finally, Mr President. The Housing Act remains a liability of the municipality in the housing of status holders. This housing continues to create distorted relationships in the local housing market. Can the Minister indicate if her department is prepared to do anything about this? Mr President, so far in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u281	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Then I give the floor to Mr Kox on behalf of the SP. I should have asked for sufficient support for Mr Van der Linden's second motion for a resolution before the Acts because having four signatures is not enough. This should have been five. I see a number of things going in the air here, so the motion for a resolution is also sufficiently supported in the case of the Acts. Thank you. I call Mr Kox, then, after I have followed the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u282	That is also an important role, Mr President. I would like to thank my colleagues and, of course, the Minister for this debate. It was a policy debate. Mr Rombouts was somewhat sceptical at the beginning. You never know what you're getting into and where a policy debate leads. But this was a good debate. It was good and timely, and it was not an academic debate, although the number of professors taking part in this debate is above average. However, we were talking about a harsh reality, which lies behind the somewhat prosaic title 'the relationship between central government and local authorities'. We have all noticed that 139 of our municipalities are currently running out of business. The Minister has made it clear that these deficits are rising very quickly and that this is also of great concern to her. Deficiencies of the municipal government are special deficits, because they need to be closed. A solution has to be found for this, and that solution is either to increase the burden or to reduce the level of provision. That's the price to pay. So it is very important that we have talked today about the imbalance that we all note. It is a timely debate. It comes at the end of the cabinet period, but it is good that the Minister intends to present her experiences and proposals for the future in the area of the relationship between the central government and the local authorities and in the area of decentralisation to the informant. I was glad to hear that. They can then be included in the formation of a new cabinet and in the preparation of a new policy plan. At the same time, you can say that we are very late. I have already referred to the fact that we adopted a motion here nine years ago and today we are all aware that there is a real need to modernise our administrative organisation. It is necessary to be able to make responsible decisions. I think there has been an imbalance in four areas. There is an administrative imbalance in the relationship between the powerful government and the less powerful local authorities. There is a financial imbalance, in which municipalities are faced with tasks, but have not received the money needed to carry out those tasks properly. There is a democratic imbalance, because, in today's complex society, we often move towards regionalisation of tasks and obligations, but we lack democratic control over them. The democratic legitimacy is lacking. There is also a political imbalance, where at local level the power of municipal councils has shifted to colleges of B and W. I believe that these four observations for a forthcoming government should be a good basis for modernising the administrative organisation of this country. Then we will no longer have to make the mistakes that I believe we have all agreed on today. The major decentralisations of 2015, however well-intentioned, have continued under the wrong conditions and have caused major problems. These problems continue to work in our local communities until today. Mr President, I have no motions. I do not really think that is very useful, although of course everyone is entitled to table their motions. But I would think it important that if the Minister did indeed submit her file to the informant, she would share it with the two houses of the parliament. I think that would be very useful. I also think it is important for the Minister to reflect on how, in addition to improvements for the future, she can also do repair work where damage has been done. Mr Van Gurp spoke about this and Mr Rombouts said that you should have good people, but also enough money. I hope that the Minister will also feel fully entitled to come to the States General with creative proposals in this area. Then at least she can count on a positive welcome in this house. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u283	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and my colleagues for their contributions and discussions. I think we have had a very important debate today, a debate that has many aspects. I have concentrated mostly on the democratic legitimacy of the local authorities, but of course there was also a lot different: financial relations and, above all, the major financial problems at the decentralised level. I welcome a number of commitments made by the Minister, for example the commitment to provide an overview of all state expenditure in the BZK budget and to provide additional information on trends. Another commitment is to investigate and find some way to have something of a guaranteed freely available budget within the framework of the Municipal Fund. The 30% may be too rigid, but it has been promised to explore at least how this can be achieved in one way or another. I welcome these commitments. Looking at the debate, I have not been able to come back to my conclusion that there really is a crisis in the democratic legitimacy of the decentralised administration. This crisis is a major one, and this is mainly due to the processes of regionalisation; we have discussed it in detail today. There's no thought-out plan or direction. We talked about it. I have spoken of a dynamic plan, an analytical framework to at least clarify and clarify what is going on, clear for us as a parliament, but also clear for the people in the States and in the councils. If you promote that overview, then the democratic legitimacy can work better. I am pleased that a commitment has been made to discuss with the local authorities that democratic plan, analytical framework or whatever you want to call it. Whether that should necessarily lead to the restoration of Thorbecke's house? I cannot make such a beautiful story of it as Mr Van Hattem did, but there is a kind of image as if Thorbecke ever invented Thorbecke's house. The term "Home of Thorbecke" was only formulated sometime in the 20th century. So it's not something solid. If I have read the Minister's Thorbecke letter "best Rudolph," then Thorbecke was just for something dynamic. Hence the term "dynamic" in my plan. I thought: that has more to do with Thorbecke than a fixed house of Thorbecke that should always and forever be the same, that consists of three layers and that everything that is in it or above it has to be removed. I would like to see it a little more dynamic, but with direction and overview, making it more accessible to the citizens of the country, the council members, the statesmen and the MPs. Does the Minister agree? I hope that she has embraced that dynamic plan, that analytical framework now, but that must be brought in at least in the short term, including the formation. I have a few more questions. I had a question about the image created by Elzinga, who speaks of the "richers in the region." That is to say, especially the professional departments, in his words also because it is very easy, a sort of backyard of the trade departments, not too much hindered by democratic control by politicians at local or provincial level, in a region where there is no representative. That is why he speaks of policy being made by 'richlords in the region'. I had asked if the Minister would recognize that image and, if she does not recognize it, whether there would be another problem with the regions in the perspective of democratic legitimacy. She tries to indicate "we have to do it, she can do it, she can do it with all kinds of different solutions." Shouldn't much more be discussed at a rich level with fellow trade ministers in the Council of Ministers that policies cannot be rolled out without democratic control? A second question concerns the file for the cabinet formation; it has already been mentioned. Is that a joint file from the Minister of the Interior and the co-governments? Or is that just the Home Secretary's file? And can that file, if it is available, at least be sent to both Chambers? Finally, I come to the position of the Minister for the Interior, which we have discussed. I have raised a plea from others that this position needs to be strengthened. I very much endorse that plea. The Minister is hesitant about that. She says: I already have a lot of options. But she's willing to see how you can strengthen that. This could, for example, be done within the framework of this dynamic plan. But let me take those advices. For example, the VNG position paper states that, among other things, "a stronger position of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the allocation of tasks is needed. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is reviewing new proposals on the basis of a balance between tasks, financing and feasibility." And on page 8 of the opinion of the Council of State, it says: "The protective role of the Minister of State can not yet be sufficiently fulfilled; neither the existing provisions of the organic laws nor the commitment made in the 2017 cabinet formation to strengthen that protective role have led to tangible results." So that didn't happen. "It is therefore important to re-examine the position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this formation." So we are talking about the next, the current formation. A little further down it says: "That is why... the formal position of the Minister of State should be strengthened by making him a co-signator responsible for laws directly affecting the local authorities. This co-responsibility also refers to budget transfers linked to decentralisation and the justification for the way in which the financial consequences of decentralisation are covered." These are two opinions from important bodies in which this is very explicit. And if things were to work out reasonably well, these organs wouldn't advise this, would they? So I would like to ask the Minister once again whether she would like to accept these opinions on this point. That really strengthens the position of the Minister of the Interior, including that of co-signatory. I've prepared a motion for that. The: Mr Koole, Mr Van Gurp and Mr Nicolaï proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a more organised decentralised administration is desirable;]] [[This should mainly be promoted in conjunction with the democratic legitimacy of the decentralised administration;]] [[Whereas the role of the Minister of State as guardian of the co-governments within the government is more desirable than ever;]] [[Whereas, for this purpose, the formal position of the Minister for the Interior should be strengthened, inter alia, as a result of the co-signing of laws directly affecting the local authorities;]] [[Whereas this co-responsibility also refers to budget transfers involving decentralisation and the justification for the way in which the financial consequences of decentralisation are covered;]] [[calls for the strengthening of the position of the Minister of the Interior as guardian of democratically elected co-governments within the government to be discussed during the current cabinet formation;]] [[invites the President of this Chamber to convey this wish to the informant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VII-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u285	Mr. Chairman. I have one more comment. Why now this motion? This is specifically about something that can only be arranged with a cabinet formation. It is about the powers of a minister. So you're gonna have to take care of that now. If you wait now, you'll be four years away. So don't miss the moment. Some might ask: why should the Supreme Court rule on this? This is specifically about a point that a room such as the First Chamber should take to heart. Surely the First Chamber must be able to make an integral balance of interests. Then it will be extremely helpful, as is shown by the opinions of the two bodies I have just quoted, if there is a minister opposite on this important point of the local authorities who is also in a position to keep an integrated overview of themselves. The only way to do that is through a reinforced position. I would therefore say that it is precisely at this point that it is very appropriate for the First Chamber to make this proposal. And the time is now, or we'll have to wait another four years. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u286	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u287	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the precise answers that have been given, as well as, of course, the officials who have supported her in this. In my first term, I put the emphasis on public value creation as the task of the government. If legislative proposals are intended to create value for citizens, we in this Chamber must also assess legislative proposals with those glasses. Moreover, I believe that legislators should also make laws with these glasses. I am convinced that writing laws from that point of view, i.e. putting the needs of people and groups first, can already prevent many problems. We therefore assess legislation here on the human dimension, on the existence of hardness clauses, on the basis of trust rather than mistrust and so on. In assessing legislative proposals with the glasses of value creation, we must therefore have a critical look at ourselves here, in this Chamber. Have we considered this point of departure sufficiently in the past? A number of us have already mentioned this today. Translated into division of responsibility between central and local authorities, this also means that we need to be sharp when it comes to allocating tasks and budgets within legislative proposals that are before us. If tasks and budgets are not feasible, we in the Chamber must also dare to intervene. All this is more a statement than a question. Maybe it's an appeal to ourselves and to the minister. In the first term, many parties discussed the democratic legitimacy of cooperation and regional development. The Minister states that she wants to investigate whether some kind of hand-out to the municipalities can help them to shape these cooperations better, alongside the WGR. The D66 Group welcomes this and hopes that the Minister will be able to make a commitment on this. I'd like to hear if I understood this correctly. Mr. Chairman. In dealing with the corona crisis, the difference between different and not overlapping regions has emerged clearly. Safety regions, GGD regions, ROAZ regions, ICI regions... I deal with it every day. In addition, a lot of implementation has been carried out by the municipalities. The question to the Minister is whether, in the assessment of the corona crisis, which will undoubtedly take place in detail, she would also like to take an active look at the issue we have discussed here today, namely democratic control, congruent regionalization and value creation, especially if there is a thought that some elements of the now Temporary Law measures might be incorporated into the law permanently. How does this relate to the human dimension and value creation of the government for the citizens? These are the remaining questions I have, Mr President. I'd like to wait for the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u288	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. I call Mr Van der Burg, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u289	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, Mr Kox asked a number of times: how could this happen, how could this have happened, how could this have happened? In fact, Mr Koole made a very important point in an interruption debate between him and Mr Van Hattem. I would like to say in advance that I am not concerned with Mr Koole, because this concerns everyone who has had the privilege of having had a cabinet participation. Mr Koole said at one point in time at a question from Mr Van Hattem: 'If you look back at the debate because I was also then First Member of Parliament............................................................................................................................................................................... And that "but it is my minister" also plays in this First Chamber, where we do not know a coalition. Yes, except for major debates: that's what we do with coalition and opposition. But we don't know any coalition or opposition here. That, of course, always plays a part in the decision-making process. This is not specifically about the debate we are now having on decentralisation, but that is something that is much more material. That's where they're looking: how can we create another culture? But that is just as true here, when it comes to the reflection we are dealing with. In the questions "is this law enforceable?" And "does this law knock?" is such a "but it is my minister" something we should be aware of. The minister sitting here isn't "my" but I still feel connected to her, so it's already playing with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u290	I am thinking for a moment, but I do not think there was a question on my part from Mr Koole. I think it was someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u291	I apologize if it wasn't your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u292	I can't even think about it for a second. Was it about the question about Plasterk's plan for those five regions? That was not my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u293	I apologize if you didn't ask the question. At least it was Mr Koole's answer. Then the honour was wrongly given to Mr Van Hattem. But it was Mr Koole's comment that we should consider. Mr President, a second point. Mr Rombouts referred to Swedish guests he had received, who said to him: how can it be that you have such a small tax area and also once again an appointed mayor? You know, I was alderman of Amsterdam. Amsterdammers are already arrogant, but aldermen of Amsterdam are completely arrogant. But humility taught you simply by walking next to the mayor of Amsterdam the moment you spoke to foreigners. Because then it was "mister mayor," which was about the closest thing to God. Then there was an alderman, but he wasn't interesting. But you couldn't hurt the mayor of Amsterdam, Eberhard van der Laan, more than by saying to that American: he's an appointed official and I'm an elected politician. Because then you immediately saw the movement of those Americans... leaving that semi-official. Then you became more interesting. This does affect the discussion about the role and position of the municipalities. Especially if you look at the past year, in which the security regions for mayors have had an extraordinary impact. If you consider that they have been appointed, at the suggestion of the city council, but only of that one city council, then that is also something to look at. It is just as well to look at the second point Mr Rombouts mentioned. That is the municipal, local tax policy. That is sensitive in my own party, I say immediately, because we are immediately terrified that it will lead to relief. Sorry, we don't have a problem with load relief as a VVD. As you can see, it's freudian coming out of my mouth. I mean "that it leads to burden increase." At the same time, it would be something you should look at when you transfer more and more tasks to the municipalities. The funny thing is that the Minister was reluctant to do so, while in the past we had a much wider tax area at local level. In 2005, under the leadership of the VVD'er Gerrit Zalm, the user part of the ozb was abolished. In my view, that was a big mistake. It should have been the other part: the owner part. Then you think of course: he is a classic VVD, property owner and so on. No, I'm not a classic VVD guy. Ask the people of GroenLinks and the SP. But it was because it was actually a resident tax. That part had to do with everyone who lived in that municipality. And now we have excluded a very large part of the residents from tax payments. And then you can say "that's great, because that was relief," but with that we also limited the municipal domain, so we'll have to look at that again. Finally, the task differentiation. I thought the Minister was a little too easy, because of course we have had center municipalities for years. You mentioned that yourself. We are now more or less abolishing them when it comes to social care, by making every municipality responsible. But that hasn't only worked very well for years. In addition, you saw much less of this discussion about democratic legitimacy in the surrounding municipalities, because it was also very logical to focus social care facilities on particular places, mostly in those centres. Of course, this also applies, for example, to youth care. You mentioned it yourself: not every municipality can provide this heavy youth care. And the moment you scale up, you could think of those center municipalities as part of task differentiation. This is for now, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u294	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. Mr Verkerk has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u295	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers, but also for the open way in which she stood in the debate. And I have to say honestly: I also enjoyed most of my colleagues' contributions. When I figure it out, there were a lot of different angles. But you can see that eventually something is going to converge, and that there is also something about a common opinion of the Upper House, such as: hey, that one and that way we should go. And that the Minister once in a while also gave a piece of support and made promises. I would also like to thank you very much for the commitment you have given me in connection with the discussion on this idea of the regions and the House of Thorbecke. I would like to ask one more thing on this point. You yourself pointed out that in a number of provinces regions, regional borders and provincial borders coincide, or that there are, for example in Limburg, two regions that fall beautifully within the province. Well, if provinces such as Limburg, Zeeland and Friesland really want to experiment with that, also in order to strengthen democratic control and strengthen the coherence between the dossiers, then I would ask the Minister if she would support that. I do not know whether these provinces want that, but I am sure they will look at the debate and be grateful for your support. There is just one more point that was quite fundamental, and that Mr Van der Voort also mentioned: the idea of human measure as public value. And I saw that the Minister struggled with that too, or at least the question was: how should you look at that? I think eventually you can only talk about public value creation if you also know how to shape that human measure. This means that it must also be established in the legislation that officials have the room to make decisions. And there you see the enormous importance of what I have just mentioned: architecture. If the laws do not contain a particular area, we cannot expect civil servants to apply that human dimension to the workplace. But the same applies to regions. So I would also like to ask the Minister at this point to at least reflect on this, whatever it means for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then I'm actually done with this. Once again, thank you very much, and I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u296	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I call Mr Van Gurp on behalf of the Nanninga Group. Yes, yes, I said at the beginning that Mr Van der Linden traded with Mr Van Gurp, at the request of Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u297	But not on behalf of the Nanninga Group!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u298	He speaks instead of Van der Linden. Anyway, then it's on behalf of GroenLinks, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u299	It is not very inviting, Mr President, to exchange turns once again when I am placed in a political group which I regard as high, but which is still quite far from me politically. Mr. Chairman. I have a general remark, a question and something about a dream; in that order. My point is that we have had a nice debate. I say that for those colleagues who were a little sceptical at the start of this debate, and I still express myself weakly. It was also a real First Chamber debate. We have tried very seriously, very thoroughly and very reflectively to analyse each other; the assembly and dismantling of legislation and the implementation practice based on it, which determines and sometimes makes it difficult for intergovernmental relations to be implemented. I believe that the debate should be conducted in this way at the heart of this Chamber. We have done so, and in my view, also in this Chamber, practice is best, because the truth can always be found only in full life. Then I have a second question to know exactly, so that I do not go home to my wife and wonder if I have understood it quite correctly. That question is about the scaling-up discount. I have heard the Minister say that we have already deleted the scaling-up discount for 2020 and 2021, and if it is up to me, it will go all the way down. I've read the chamber letters, but I'm not on the committee, so I might be wrong. In the letters of the Chamber I read that not the scale-up discount has been deleted these two years, but the increase in the scale-up discount. The scale-up discount is about 500 or 600 million at the moment and amounts to 975 million. The influx was 70 million in 2020 and 90 million in 2021. I would like to know what has been deleted, the scale-up discount or the increase in the scale-up discount, and what would you like to delete in the future? If that's the scale-up discount, we're talking about almost a billion, but if that's the scale-up discount, then maybe we're talking about 200 million. That saves a lot, so before Mr.Raven or myself or Mr.Van der Linden goes home too happy and then finds that we've been lurking around.That certainly won't be the intention.I want to know if I've understood it correctly and what the facts are. I am sure you can explain that in this way, and I will be interested to hear it. The third point is about a dream. I think it's because you had dreams of your own and said, "I'm gonna keep dreaming." I think that's a beautiful trait, and I do. During such a long debate, you sometimes have a moment or such a flash on which you think you are dreaming. It happened to me that I was starting prosaic in the debate about the situation being stuck and torn apart. The fact that the situation is stuck and that something has not suddenly come up about us is clear from the fact that in November 2015 234 aldermen of finance wrote a fire note: this is no longer possible. We've been in a thoroughly jammed relationship for six years. All parties play a role in this relationship. I don't point fingers, all parties play a role. That's why I liked the proposal of the Public Administration Council. Mr Rombouts also presented it in a variant. He said: would it not be good to appoint a special official, not to use the heavy word "commissar," and to have them come up with an overall plan? He is out of proportion, he must have a reasonable mandate and he must get to work as quickly as possible. We shouldn't wait on that. He's got to come up with a comprehensive plan to make these tight relationships go away. It's a very nice and sympathetic proposal. I fully support that. And then my dream moment begins. I thought I heard the minister say that's not necessary, because he's already here. I thought I missed something. At that time, I think the Minister said, "That's me." Then Munchhausen flashed through my head. I don't think that's true. We ended up in a swamp about six, seven years ago, and we need to get out. We all know that. We just don't know how, because otherwise we would have done it a long time ago. Then how are we going to get an outboard engine to help? And then the minister says she's her own outboard engine. I find that very complicated to understand. I am not always in favour of all kinds of separate bodies, but in this case you really need someone who is not the minister himself, who is, after all, a very important part of that triangle in which the relationships have stalled. I found that a little hallucinating. It became even more complicated when Mr Rombouts got up. I thought, "Yes, but Minister, isn't that Munchhausen?" Then I thought I heard him say: Minister, you completely convinced me. I have known Mr Rombouts for about 30 years and I think he is very high and wise, but I cannot quite imagine that. I cannot imagine that anyone from outside who is going to look at it all thoroughly can coincide with the person of the minister himself who is in the heart of the relationship. So I'm asking you if I've heard it right. I would also like to ask Mr Rombouts, who is speaking after me, to take this into account when trading, if he would consider keeping his proposal, because that seems extremely wise to me. That's it, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u300	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. Now I understand why you wanted to speak just before Mr Rombouts. It was a cliffhanger, actually. We're curious. I shall then give the floor to Mr Rombouts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u301	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by helping Mr Van Gurp out of the dream: dreams are deceit. It fits much more to start with a lot of thanks. Thank you for the initiator of this debate. I had some spares, and that's what I said this morning. But that reserve is completely gone after this debate, because what great contributions have we heard here from almost all the speakers. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for the thorough answer. What an overview you have of the problem. What do you control the matter and how nice to feel that you seem fully fit again. You missed the press conference, but your colleagues said that next week we can take the children back to the zoo, so so can you. We have had a nice debate, but words have not yet been done. So I would also like to say to ourselves: let us try to hold on to what has become of communism opinio and, above all, to translate this into action when proposals are put forward here which involve decentralisations for municipalities or provinces. And let's focus on doing what can be expected of a First Chamber: asking, asking, asking, asking if there are really good people going to work on this task and asking if there is enough money. I hope that I can reassure Mr Van Gurp a little bit more. I had planned it before you called me to ask the Minister if she would reconsider whether the delta Commissioner Kajsa Ollongren should help Rutte IV's Minister Kajsa Ollongren by starting things now that can be completed. 'Cause you're talking about a file. Do I speak with trouble and back words when I get an app from someone who has been watching and asks if I would like to ask the Minister? I ask the Minister myself: do you not even want to consider whether in your file, that you will hopefully share with VNG and IPO very quickly, because that app showed that they do not know the file yet, that there are parts that do not have to wait and that you could solve already? Do you want to solve it in anticipation of formation? Then there are a few small points. I would like to thank Mr Nicolaï for the little debate he had with the Minister on Rule 117. The Minister promotes decentralisation. Is this not, ladies and gentlemen, an example of this creative power exercised by a Member of Parliament who puts in an organic law that needs to be decentralised? Does that actually fit into an organic law? As high as I have Mr Stoffer, I do not think it should be there, but at that time it was a political wish. Mr Nicolaï said that there may be a need for centralisation at a certain time or in certain cases. I would like to thank Mr Koole for the little debate with the Minister on the position of the Minister for the Interior. I think he did a pretty good job of that. Actually, the Minister's answer was that she's doing it anyway, so it's gonna be okay. After this minister there may be ministers of less stature and that is why Mr Koole naturally wants to settle it for the future. I'd love to follow him, but he's going very far in his motion. Not only does he say what he wants, but he also tells us how to do it: with co-signature. Then, of course, because of this creative power, you could think a little longer about how it should be arranged. I understand his impatience, given the formation, but perhaps there could be a little longer debate on how exactly that position could be strengthened. You know that we are not in favour of motions going through the President of this Chamber to the informant. I already said that this morning. I'm finishing by getting out of my friend Van Gurp's house. He spoke this morning about municipalities from Appingedam to Amsterdam. I can tell him that last year he agreed to the abolition of the Appingedam municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u302	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. Then I give the floor to Mr Schalk, on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u303	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for this debate and for the surprising point he raised about Sunday. In the first term I outlined the pattern of how the cabinet deals with the coronapandemic: on Sunday the Catshuis meeting, on Monday leaks, Tuesday the Council of Ministers, so the minister just added, in the evening a press conference and then on Wednesday or Thursday the House of Representatives. As I said, it is completely unclear to me why the Catshuis meeting should always take place on Sundays. The Minister replied that this had to do with the special circumstances. I might understand that, if it's a one-time thing and if there's no other way. But it's been over a year now. I don't think that's really necessary. The only advantage I see so far is that the Minister has just mentioned that as Minister of D66 she has now received understanding and even appreciation for the importance of Sunday rest. The same applies to me for a long time, I can assure the Minister. Not only to not have to work, but more because I read psalm 84 every Sunday in my family from the ancient translation that was once made by the States General. It says, "How sweet are your dwellings, O Lord of Hosts! My soul is longing and fainting in desire for the courts of the Lord; my heart and my flesh cry out to the living God." I'd like to give it to all the ministers and all the secretaries of state. Is the Minister prepared to make this point to the Council of Ministers or to the Catshuis meeting? Next, it remains important to get away as quickly as possible from the process management of the national government and to move to a regional or local level as soon as possible, depending of course on local circumstances. Mr. Chairman. In addition, I have drawn from this debate above all that much better thought should actually be given to feasibility; financial, but also, and above all, to democratic legitimacy. That's just stressful. Does the Minister agree with me that the legislative process should focus on this in the future, in order to avoid repetitions? Finally, Mr President. I quoted my illustrious predecessor Holdijk in the first term. I like to finish the quote. He said that "we can sometimes clearly indicate the disadvantages of the current situation, but that we can provide relatively little certainty about the disadvantages of the proposed solutions." Maybe a nice quote to think about. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u304	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Finally, Mr Raven has the floor on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Until recently, I was alderman of Finance and Resources in Sittard-Geleen. I took part in a demonstration last year. That's unusual for aldermen. The demonstration was held here in The Hague in front of the entrance to the House of Representatives by, I think, some 200 city leaders. I was there. All the municipalities that participated had made videos about their concerns about the redistribution of the Municipal Fund. At the time they showed them quite large because of their presence. I have particular respect for the Minister. The minister came out and took note on the spot of the videos and the information given by the aldermen there. All the aldermen had one goal. That was that the redistribution of the Municipal Fund would at least not come out as negative as what was on the table at the time. At the same time, the whole story was also on the table of the fees needed in connection with the corona crisis, because that was, of course, a special point at the time. It wasn't settled yet. In this respect, the Minister indicated that she would do so very quickly. She did. I made it clear in the debate that she was complimented for that. Of course, that applies not only to her, but to the government as a whole. Of course, the municipalities had a lot of problems with this in the early stages, especially when there was no clarity. The government has fulfilled its commitments. At a rather early stage, the government, together with the VNG, agreed that the municipalities would not decline. That's worth a compliment. In that sense, I would like to mention that. I think today's debate was important, in particular the part on redistribution and on the financial relationship between central and local government. In my contribution I also asked for a reflection of Parliament, because a lot of things that have been negative for both the municipalities and the provinces have been taken largely with knowledge of Parliament, the First and Second Chambers. The municipalities have had to wait a long time for some compensation. Mr. Chairman. The cake needs to be bigger. With a redistribution at the moment you divide the scarcity, one may be improving while the other is deteriorating. But if you don't make the cake bigger, that's the consequence. I call on the Minister, but also on the new cabinet, to make the cake bigger. As far as we are concerned, none of the municipalities should go backwards, not even the G4, so that could be the measure. You will understand that 300 million less a year for the G4 is a very substantial sum. But if you put that down to zero and the rest of it down to zero, that would mean that no municipality would have to go backwards. In any case, I think I have heard a far-reaching statement by the Minister today on the scale reduction. The Minister has indicated that it could lapse. It is an interesting question of what this means financially, but we still like to hear it. In any case, according to Article 108 (3) of the Municipal Law, the municipalities must receive a one-off compensation for the deficits that have occurred in recent years in municipal budgets and annual accounts. The one-off compensation could be used to strengthen the municipalities' reserves and any investments needed to overcome the crisis, in the form of countercyclical investments. A final point on improving the relationship and in particular cooperation between central and local authorities. The three public authorities (provinces, municipalities and the Empire) should have the outside appearance of one government. That's not gonna happen to date. The necessary proposals were made last year, including in the form of the opinions of the Study Group on Intergovernmental and Financial Relations. I would ask the Minister to look at this very consistently, because they were good proposals. We would have incorporated them in a draft motion, but we will not submit it, because we have the confidence that the Minister is at least working to improve relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u306	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you in a position to respond directly? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u307	Mr. Chairman. Thank you again for having this beautiful and valuable debate. A number of questions have also been asked in the second term. I shall, of course, also deal with the motions. I am going through the questions and comments that have been made in the order of the speakers. I have outlined to Mr van der Linden that we have a good idea of the efficiency of decentralisation. He wanted to know if it was fully compensated and repaired. That is not the case. Moreover, it is not real to compare this completely one-on-one. Anyway, we do agree that you need to look at the imbalance. It may take money for that. It may also be that you opt for legislation and regulation in a toolbox to control costs. You simply have to make a careful assessment per decentralisation, obviously in consultation with the relevant government. It was generally appreciated that came back a few times later, moreover, that there is now cooperation between my ministry, myself and the fellow governments to arrive at good advice and answer from the informant. That is what we are doing, and we are ready for it. I would very much like to share that with your Chamber, but I am happy to do so at the appropriate time. By the way, I'm sure you'll find a lot of what's changed today. I'll be at the PVV. Mr Van Hattem had a nice reflection on the house of Thorbecke. But Mr Koole quite rightly said that it was never meant to be a house, but as a beautiful metaphor. Mr Van Hattem has depicted this beautifully. Besides, I think that in this housing market that beautiful house of Thorbecke, which is well maintained, is not perfect, it can always be better, because it always needs maintenance. But the most important thing, as I said myself, is that Thorbecke has always foreseen that the establishment of the public administration is not static but dynamic and needs maintenance. Mr Van Hattem also asked about the Security Regions Act and he called me system manager. You can say that the Minister of State is responsible for everything that concerns the commitment and involvement of fellow governments, but I think that is a somewhat too broad interpretation of the concept of system responsibility. When it comes to the system of responsibility for this area, security and security regions, that really is JenV's colleague who is responsible for this. I have just said something about democratic legitimacy, the anchoring and accountability of council members. I also said that we want to improve this in the evaluation. Of course, I'll keep an eye on that. Mr Van Hattem's other point was about housing, in particular about housing for status holders. Mr Van Hattem often asks about this. I think it is extremely important that we provide housing for status holders and, by the way, for other groups in society that need housing. In many cases, municipalities do so in consultation with corporations and succeed in doing so. But it's tricky. Of course, that has everything to do with the housing market right now. The municipalities can choose, but by far the majority of municipalities choose to regard them as a priority category. They have an emergency regime for this, also in order to be able to meet the targets they have for housing status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u308	My question is this: it is precisely the task imposed on the municipalities by the government. The municipalities may indeed choose whether or not to take priority, but that is the task. Now that we are discussing central and local authorities, is it not of great importance to see whether this task towards the municipalities can be changed or, as far as the PVV is concerned, can even be completely removed? This is partly due to the totally derailed housing market, where this is a factor that creates a very heavy pressure, especially on the waiting lists for social housing. Is the Ministry currently considering whether something can be done about this or whether a different approach should be chosen? I'm particularly curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u309	No, because the cabinet is of the opinion that if refugees become status holders here, it is important that they can quickly integrate into society, receive training and find work. That includes housing. This also includes that they flow quickly and not stay in the COAs, but that they go to a municipality, preferably a municipality where they can also build a life. That includes housing. We do have very intensive discussions on how best to organise this. We are trying to find a more intelligent solution than just a numerical distribution, so more in line with where education and work are, and looking at families versus single people. There is extensive consultation with the municipalities and the co-governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u310	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u311	If there is apparently extensive consultation on this, I would like to ask the Minister whether, as a parliament, but also as a local authority, we can be informed about the state of play of that consultation and also about the other than just the numerical approach. I would like to make a second point. I also asked a question about the opinion of the ROB. I'd like to get a reaction to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u312	On that first point you will be fully informed, because Mr Broekers-Knol and I will simply inform Parliament about the agreements we make there. That'll make it public. The co-governments also ensure that they are in contact with their own supporters, i.e. the aldermen with the councils and the delegates with the States, where relevant. The province also plays a role here, so that's actually happening already. It is true that Mr Van Hattem had also asked a question about the opinions of the ROB on strengthening the Council's position as a framework body. In his first term, he had also called for attention to be paid to issues such as the RES's, the regional deals and his concern that the councils would be too remote. These are examples of inter-administrative cooperation. That cooperation is necessary, because we all really think that otherwise you will not be able to do this type of task. At the same time, I think that the ROB has rightly pointed it out, and Mr Van Hattem rightly calls for attention to be paid to the importance of enabling this Parliament to define on the front what these frameworks look like, how these agreements are made with these directors, and within what conditions the Council can agree to enter into intergovernmental cooperation. This means, as for many of the things we have discussed here today, that you need to organise this well in advance and this case should involve the Councils properly. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on. Mr Kox made a number of comments. Basically, he found three forms of imbalance. The first one was about power. In his view, the government is more powerful than the local authorities. The second was about finance and the third was about democratic anchoring. I think they're all relevant points. By the way, I do not experience, in the consultation I have with the fellow governments, that there is an enormous hierarchy. There are several responsibilities, but we have really moved away from the idea that there is a relationship between the boss and the execution. No, they are different levels of government, but they all have that democratic anchoring. We need each other to get things done. That also gives a certain degree of equality. Of course, aldermen will sometimes look at The Hague or at me when they feel they are stuck somewhere, for example because there is a lack of money or because certain legislation is not working properly. Then here in The Hague I am able to solve that, but at the same time I look very much at municipalities again. If I'm gonna drive the housing business, I'm gonna need them again. So I do recognize the points he raised. I do indeed think that we should work on this imbalance, but we do so in a sense that we need each other and that we need to find solutions to these bottlenecks. Mr Kox also asked about sharing the file for the informers. I will. We're missionary. That's just a fact. But that doesn't mean we're sitting still, we're not doing anything, we're sitting back. I simply agree with Mr Kox. There are urgent tasks, even now, in the recovery work. I hope we have shown as a cabinet, for example in the Youth Act, that we are certainly looking for what we can do now. Then I'm really talking about the here and the now. We are also preparing as much as possible in the hope that it can be picked up at the formation. Again, we must also be flexible. If the formation lasts longer, it means that some things can't stay down. I just agree with him. Then there is Mr Koole's contribution. He has listed a number of commitments I have made. I can confirm that. He also spoke very well about this framework. It's still complicated. I think that Mr Koole, I and many others here today have quite the same idea about certain things that we very much want. We want to promote, improve and strengthen that democratic legitimacy. But we also say: there are different ways to do that. You don't want it to be inconvenient, complex and non-transparent. I don't want that at all. At the same time, you don't want to simplify it until: it can only be a municipality, a province or a ministry. We want room for this cooperation. We think that certain things just don't come together if you don't leave room for differentiation, for forms of regional cooperation. Then we must also have a little confidence that it will be well organised at some point in time. How can you improve that without blueprints, but with more grip for you as a parliament, for councils, States and also for the drivers who have to work in it? That's what I'd like to continue and deepen the conversation about. As far as I'm concerned, that conversation isn't noncommittal. As far as I am concerned, Mr Koole certainly has that commitment. With regard to the design, we will see in that conversation what is the best way to get out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u313	I still have an interruption, partly on this point. The Minister was just talking about the ROB opinion on the framework. The Minister is right to say that the Councils should be properly involved. I wonder how the Councils can be properly involved in the intergovernmental tasks of the Empire, from their framework role, while the Minister remains firmly behind these tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u314	I have set the example of the Regional Energy Strategies. We have just said that we want as much from the bottom as possible, so that what is playing at local and provincial level also gets a place in it. It is not intended to be said from The Hague: this is how you should do it; here is the framework and then there is a very small amount of room for you to fill in. No, we realize that municipalities are already working on this and want and can make certain choices in it, depending on their own political choices. You can organize it that way from the bottom up. That's just one example. You can choose from that, so it doesn't always have to go the same way. If Mr Van Hattem says that we should never meet at national level, I do not think that is realistic. I don't think that's necessary either. I think it is very wise that you sometimes say at the level of the whole country: this is an objective that we have. Then you consult with the fellow governments on how we can achieve this in common. This also applies to issues that Mr Van Hattem has less to deal with, such as meeting the climate objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u315	In my second term, I have also indicated that the example of the RES is the wrong one, because that is precisely what is the task to be achieved in terms of megawatts and that at least there must be a minimum rating in terms of wind and sun. In this way, the freedom of choice and framework within the Councils, and indirectly also from the States, is very much restricted. There won't be a lot of options left, because they have to make the energy call. It is not really the question whether they want to set up wind turbines, but how many and at what places. That is not the strong framework role. The Ministry intervenes from above, while the ROB says that it is actually undesirable that it should happen in such a way and thus undermines autonomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u316	Mr. Van Hattem and I see it quite differently. I think that the municipalities also see it differently from Mr Van Hattem's description here. It's just a joint task. The municipalities and the co-governments have taken them on because they also feel that they have a responsibility in this regard. They consider that they themselves should have an influence on how the declaration is completed. That is the whole concept of the Regional Energy Strategy. This gives them a lot of space to fill in. Once again, they regard this as their task and their responsibility. So I really do see that quite differently from what Mr Van Hattem is describing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u317	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u318	The point is that it is not a non-binding task. If the municipalities say "we're just not going to do it; we're not going to set up wind turbines on our territory, because we can't sell it to our own residents" then the municipalities have this declared minister on their hands. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u319	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u320	Each council may discuss with the alderman in the front as to whether they agree that this objective should be achieved. They can then discuss how the objective should be achieved. There are choices to be made. The Council can act not only as a framework, but also as a monitoring act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u321	I had a simple question about the foregoing. The Minister said that she liked to engage in discussions with the co-governments in the context of what I called the flexible plan, also called the dynamic plan or the analytical framework. Is the point that there will be work on this also something to be included in the formation file? That's the simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u322	I don't know if I'm necessarily in that... This, of course, focuses mainly on the question of how we, BZK and co-governments, together can organise public administration in a better and sustainable way, including in the budgetary sense. This is particularly true of the financial side. There are, of course, several aspects to this. The whole debate we have had here today has all kinds of similarities, but it is of course wider than that. I think that this particular issue is a relevant point. I think it is a point for the next cabinet and I therefore believe that this should be discussed in the formation. As far as I'm concerned, it wasn't necessarily the main point. I'll see if it can get a place there, but at least I think the next cabinet should get on with it. It runs directly or indirectly through that formation table, I think. Of course, we've also heard the stories about very short rule agreements, Mr. Koole. So I'm not sure it fits in with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u323	I shall come back to Mr Koole's statements. The fourth point is that an elected representative should be present at the level of political decision-making. That is an essential statement. I would appreciate it if the Minister would say that she agrees with that statement. If she does indeed work with the different domes and engages in conversation, that at least gives direction to the conversation. If you choose that theorem, an elected representative should be present at the level of political decision-making, then there are certain consequences for the institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u324	I had actually written a very different fourth statement by Mr Koole. That's got something to do with it, you know. But I understood that he said that we should make room for municipalities for autonomous considerations. That's how I wrote it down. That does not alter the fact that if the argument were that the parliament should be involved in this at the front, I could also agree with it. I think that is in line with what I have just discussed with Mr Van Hattem, at the front and at the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u325	Whether it's in the front, in the back or in the middle, no matter how you turn it, the thesis is that if you have political decision-making, a parliament should be involved. That's the thesis. If that statement is endorsed by the Minister, it means, for example, that regionalisation must be reduced, or that there must be only one where no political decision-making has to take place at all, because there is hardly any balance. The choice of modalities therefore depends on your principle. Since the Minister of D66 is, therefore, I am so curious to see whether the Minister is in favour of that statement. So it is that when you make political considerations, there should always be a representative of the people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u326	I think a very large part of the debate today was about that. My point is that this is partly organized automatically, where it is clear that this is only a municipality, a province or a parliament. At the same time, we see that other forms of cooperation are often needed in order to get things done. Ensuring sufficient housing or a good spatial layout cannot remain with one municipality or province. Collaborations will have to be established, and I think the bottom line was that every time there is a need to think about how to organise it. I actually thought that we agreed on that, and I would also like to see today's profits. In the end, of course, they are political choices. How do you involve the representatives of the relevant government at the front and at the end, so that it can exercise its controlling role? That certainly goes in the front. If you make that assessment, then there is usually a solution to it. To that end, you must also allow those city council members or statesmen to hold their grip. The major complaint is, of course, often that there is insufficient grip, even where it is organized, or that it is not well organised. If it's well organized, you'd like to have a real grip on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u327	Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u328	Finally. I shall read out the statement again: 'An elected representative should be present at the level of political decision-making'. May I take this opportunity to point out that this statement is supported by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u329	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u330	I'll explain that thesis. Firstly, I had not taken note of the theorem and secondly, I do not know what'should be present' means. "Should be involved in," "should have an influence on," all of which are terms I recognize myself in. I think that is in line with the conclusion I would like to draw today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u331	I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered Mr Koole's comments and the question he still had. Then I'm gonna... No, it is not, because Mr Koole continues on the next page of my notes. The ruler in the region was still a point of his. He has heard that specialist departments, sometimes with the regional deals that have just been mentioned, make agreements with the region. But the region doesn't exist at all. As soon as we agree on something that happens in a region, we do so with delegates and with aldermen. I've been involved in regional deals myself. We have made agreements about the living environment, spatial planning, NOVI, accessibility, living and so on. Those are tables these days, they're screens, but there's just people there. Those people are often or actually always directors, deputy or alderman. That's what we make the deal with. If this is in the form of a regional deal, several delegates and several aldermen all provide their input, from the large and small municipalities. In that sense, I do not really recognise the image of the sovereign in the region, nor do I recognise that that would be a commitment on the part of the cabinet. It is often a form of cooperation in which you might have to pay even more attention to the question of whether that is well anchored in those councils and in those states.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u333	Mr. Van Hattem, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u334	I have been triggered by the story about the regional deals, because I myself, as a councilman and a member of the State, have the experience that you are really out of the loop. There is indeed consultation with the aldermen and with the delegates, but the involvement of the parliament is simply minimal. It's really remote and often only afterwards. To paint it very graphically: a regional deal has been presented in Noordoost-Brabant. It was just said one night: "All of you stand there in the picture. There is a check of 10 million and we present it to you here."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u335	What's your question, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u336	Can the Minister indicate whether she also asks the decentralised directors: gosh, how do you involve your councils and your states?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u337	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u338	Regionals and other agreements are often based on proposals from the levels of government that Mr Van Hattem is talking about. My view is that these are proposals that are also supported by the representative of the people concerned. If there were a next round, perhaps that wouldn't happen again so soon in this outgoing cabinet, I'd be happy to at least give that to a next cabinet, if they want to continue working with this instrument. I just said it's important that the delegates and the aldermen have organized that involvement on the front. Perhaps that could be better; that could be very good. At the same time, I believe that I can assume that aldermen and delegates take it for granted as part of their work to do so. However, Mr Van Hattem points out that this is not always the case. I'd be happy to pay attention to that. Another question from Mr Koole was about the co-signatory by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I have mentioned a number of existing instruments that I have or powers that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has. He said that several key advisors, as well as the VNG itself, found that the existing instruments could be used and used even more intensively. I have heard his speech very well and I have read the opinions on it very carefully. That really is something to look at. I didn't think I'd reacted against it in the first term either. I have said that it may not be necessary in all cases, but I have also said that I am not necessarily against it. Where that is really useful and has real added value, I can very well imagine that we are doing so. Mr. Chairman. I go to the questions of Mr Van der Voort of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u339	First, Mr Koole has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u340	Yes, I do have one more question on this point. The Minister's answer now seems to be the same as her answer in the first term; that is at least what I understand. The minister says she might think about it further. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De minister zou ...]] Now I've lost the line of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u341	Just think about it for a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u342	Maybe the Minister can give you the answer she just gave himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u343	I think Mr Koole was looking for me to say: yes, we are going to. He wants me to say that it is indeed important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs should become just a co-signator in future, because it does justice to those opinions and strengthens you visibly, and also formally, the position of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I've said I can imagine it's useful in some situations, but I don't know if it's always necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u344	Exactly. Now I remember. In the first term, I said: shouldn't you define the competence of co-signing anyway? In practice, then, it can be seen whether you should always call on it. But at least let's record it in case it was necessary for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u345	Yeah, okay, I think that's an interesting wording. Then let me promise Mr Koole that I will consider whether that will help. You only have to do it if it helps, otherwise it's a formality that doesn't add anything. So Mr Koole is actually talking about it. I say put it in when you're sure it has added value. Mr Koole says: make sure you can do it, and then you can always choose not to apply it. Yeah, I can't really argue with that much. So let me take it back that way and see what would be best. And I say again: it will probably only become relevant in a subsequent cabinet to settle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u346	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u347	Yes. Mr Van der Voort returned to public value creation. It was supplemented by Mr Verkerk. It is always interesting what happens in such a debate. Mr Van der Voort said that his interpretation of this is actually for him: legislation is indeed much more judging on the basis of whether it has that human dimension in it. For example, Mr Van der Voort mentioned the hardness clause, which you naturally want to see. That is indeed something that the cabinet now supports. And Mr Verkerk gave this further details by talking about the space that officials need to have to take into account. That is actually a form of completing that hardness clause, and the design of that legislation. In my view, this is precisely the direction of thought which the cabinet has also tried to incorporate in its response to the POK, the parliamentary interrogation committee. I also think that this is a fine definition of what Mr Van der Voort had already argued in the first term. Mr Van der Voort also said that the corona crisis has, of course, led to a very exceptional situation, including the way in which we have worked. But you can also learn from exceptional situations. Let me give you an example of democratic control. We have indeed already tried to improve this by means of this temporary law. How do you work in regions? How do you scale up? How do you scale? What exactly has your public value creation been in that crisis? I think that all these are important points, which we will indeed involve in the assessment of the corona crisis. Do I have any other points for Mr Van der Voort? I don't think so. I shall now turn to the questions put by Mr Van der Burg. He gave a number of further reflections on the relationship between coalition and opposition. Of course it doesn't exist in this house, but emotionally it does, sometimes. Mr Van der Voort also gave an account of the own-tax area. I thought he had interpreted my opinion on this as being a little reluctant. It's not like that, by the way. I'm not at all reluctant to look at that. In fact, in the long run, I think it would be wise to do something with that. I was just saying: I actually agree with what the advisers say about this, for example the Council of State. Those advisers say: let's get things in order first, so that there are just stable budgetary conditions where we no longer have to talk about imbalance, deficits, system errors and that sort of thing. They say: let's do that before we take this step, because this is also a proper system change. Of that, I'd say you should take your time. You have to do that very carefully and with each other. I am therefore not hesitant about the principle; I am even less reluctant than Mr Van der Burg, who now wants to take a very serious look at it. I think that this is a good thing, but I think that the political parties and the next cabinet must take this very seriously and give themselves time to do so, and that this can only be done if the other problems are resolved. So I wouldn't want to rush into this, but I support the idea as such. Mr Van der Burg felt that I had stepped over the task differentiation a little too easily. That was not the intention, because the example of heavy youth care indeed illustrates exactly what Mr Van der Burg also says: it might have been better if you had opted for such a centre municipality at the time, because it is sometimes very difficult to decentralise this completely to all the municipalities. In addition to what I have just said, I would like to confirm that. Then I am with Mr Verkerk; I think I will do it in the right order. With regard to his comments on the human dimension, public value and civil servants that you need to give the space, I have just said that thinking through what this means for the legislation is, in my opinion, crucial and that we need to do so now. He noted that in some cases provinces and regions more or less coincide or that, for example in the case of Limburg, there are two regions in one province. He asked if, if they would experiment with it, I would promote and support that. I'd love to. I agree with that thought. I am also pleased that the Council of State has advised you to do so. If they were to express that wish, I would be happy to support it. We are already talking with Zeeland and Friesland and with the municipalities and water boards about what we can do to improve their mutual cooperation. This element could also play a role in this. Then I am with Mr Van Gurp van GroenLinks. I think his comment on the scale reduction is more precise than I might have said; I meant to put it that way. The run-up in the scaling-up discount has been deleted for two years: for 2020 and for this year. The wish of the municipalities is, of course, that this scaling-up discount should be completely removed. I understand that wish and I share it, but that is to a new cabinet. When this cabinet took office, the scaling-up discount was simply in the budget record. There wasn't much room for me to do anything about that. Fortunately, therefore, we have been able to remove this increase for these two years, but it is really something for a new cabinet and a formation table that establishes a new financial framework to see if they could actually delete that scaling-up discount. Let me see if Mr Van Gurp had any other questions. Can you pull your hair out of a swamp? That is indeed very difficult, but that was not so much my point either. If the relations are not good and if the governments really need to seek a better balance, even in the administrative-financial relations...................................................................................................................................................... Then I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is often called the Ministry of Foreign Affairs "mother department" in that it has such an important task that you simply cannot outsource it to anyone else. I therefore think that it is appropriate to take the lead in the role of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to do so in consultation with the others. The guardian of the local authorities must do so on their own. That would be my position. So I didn't have the image of the Baron of Münchhausen, because I don't think that turned out well. Then I am with Mr Rombouts, who also touched on that point. I've already answered his question about sharing the file for the informant. I think I have already said a few things about decentralisation and legislation. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Schalk inspired us with a beautiful quote from the Bible. I have said above all that I have come to appreciate the Sunday rest more. It's not like I didn't appreciate it at all. On the contrary, but I have come to appreciate the Sunday rest more, but the further inspiration of people in the Catshuis may not be up to me. I very much agree with him that we should avoid repeating mistakes that have been made, that we should think better about the feasibility of decentralisation. And that is not only financial, but also democratic legitimacy. I'm actually just agreeing with him. I think that we should go through this legislative process properly, that we should do it properly in front of us, that we should do it properly in Parliament too. I hope that this impact analysis can help, that the focus on legislative quality at the front can help in this. In the end, however, it is up to the Chambers, and when it comes to the quality of the legislation, especially this Chamber, to pay close attention to it. So agree with his statement. Let's see... Mr Raven had the same point about the scaling-up discount. I think I've already answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u348	Thank you for the answer to that legislative situation. As for inspiring others: I think that is always allowed, if you have gifts to give away. I would like to draw your attention to that once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u349	Of course, I appreciate it very much when Mr Schalk thinks of those who do not try to do the right thing every Sunday, but almost every other week at the Catshuis. I'll be happy to pass that on. Finally, Mr Raven, who said: "central" and "central" are all concepts; we must succeed in acting as one government. And I actually want to end with that, because I think that is what this really is about. It's complex, the challenges are great. People are also expecting a lot, but that is right. And I am convinced that we can only succeed if we can operate as one government. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a number of motions, but not very much. The first motion was by Mr Van der Linden, under letter F, who deals with what he calls the "fair distribution of the Wfpp grant." The aim is also to grant subsidies to local parties. I have already said that I am very much in favour of this, but I believe that the motion calls for a redistribution, a different distribution, of the subsidy available. I would say: then you would like extra funding to be available, so that we can also give subsidies to the local parties; and so not to redistribute what is there, because that will, of course, be at the expense of the other political parties. I do not think that is desirable. But if the motion asks for more money, then of course that is also an uncovered motion. So once again, I share the objective, I am in favour of funding for local parties, but then we have to organise the funds first. So the motion as such, I'm afraid, has to be dissuaded. So that was motion F. Now motion G, also by Mr Van der Linden, which deals with scale reduction and the planned scaling-up reduction. The human measure as a starting point, I have just said a few things about it. But simply deleting the scaling-up discount by motion, unfortunately I cannot... Yeah, I wish, but it doesn't work that way. That must be done at the formation. I'll recommend it to the formatter, but this motion, which isn't covered either, I must advise against. And then I thought that the last motion I have, motion H, was not addressed to me, because that is an expression of speech which the President requests. So it is not for me to respond to that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u350	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-eerstekamer-10.u351	I propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. Then we have come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the members, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, and the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll close the meeting and wish you all at home.
