ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the own-initiative legislative proposal 34091, Proposal for a law of Mr Segers, Mr Kuik, Mr Kuik and Mr Van Nispen amending the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Law BES, introducing the criminalisation of the abuse of prostitutes who are victims of trafficking in human beings, the Act on the criminalisation of abuse of prostitutes who are victims of trafficking in human beings. I would once again like to welcome Mr Segers, Mrs Kuik, Mrs Kuik, Mr Van Nispen and the Minister for Legal Protection to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of transparency in this Chamber, I say first of all that I have been a member of the Board of the Association for Women and Law - Clara Wichmann, and still a member. I also mention that I have not had any involvement in the creation of the letter that this association has written about the draft law before us today. And for the sake of completeness, I also mention that from 2011 to 2018 I was a member of the Supervisory Board of the CoMensha Foundation, the coordination centre against trafficking in human beings. Mr. Chairman. It is now more than six years since the initiative proposal we are discussing today has been submitted to the House of Representatives. Of the original initiators, as far as I understood, only Mr Segers is still with us to defend the bill. Firstly, I would like to express my appreciation for both the original initiators and those who have continued their work. The right of initiative is an important instrument for a Member of Parliament. It takes a lot of time and perseverance to write a bill and answer the many questions from both chambers. The aim of the present legislative proposal is to tackle the abuse of prostitutes who are victims of trafficking in human beings. No one can argue with that. However, we must ask ourselves whether the aim of this legislative proposal is being achieved, whether there are undesirable side effects and whether the measures chosen are in line with constitutional principles. Before I go into these questions, I would like to say a few words about what I call the "prostitution debate" and the link between prostitution and trafficking in human beings. This is a complicated debate. This complexity is linked to the moral judgment that many of us have on prostitution. That moral judgment is also linked to a moral judgment on sex. In that sex is something that should only take place within a long-term love relationship or at least be linked to strong affective feelings. Prostitution as a work is difficult to fit within such a moral judgment, let alone prostitution as a work to which the sex worker has fun. Don't get me wrong, there's nothing wrong with having a moral judgment. It becomes problematic when one's own moral judgment is used to judge, condemn and silence others for their own good. That is what we sometimes see happening in discussions about abortion and around prostitution. But it would also be too easy to put away all initiatives to tackle human trafficking within prostitution as patriarchal actions of moral knights. Indeed, there is trafficking in human beings in the prostitution sector and abuse of sex workers by customers. This abuse and trafficking in human beings must be tackled, without being distracted by our own moral judgment on prostitution. I told you, I was on CoMensha's supervisory board. There, too, there were often discussions about the relationship between sex work and trafficking in human beings. We often asked ourselves and others the question: if it were not about human trafficking in sex work, but about human trafficking in horticulture, what would be our position? That's a good way to find out for yourself whether you're really talking about tackling human trafficking or a moral judgment on sex work. That brings me to my first question to the initiators. Why did they choose to criminalise only the abuse of victims of trafficking in human beings in prostitution and not also the abuse of victims of trafficking in human beings in other sectors? The proposed Article 273g is placed after Article 273f, which is about trafficking in human beings in general. In the opinion of the initiators, what is the difference in principle or the need to address this and not to abuse victims of abuse in other sectors? For what about, for example, looking at an illegal cage fight, where there are doubts about the voluntary nature of all fighters, or about buying asparagus on a farm where you suspect that Eastern European workers are being treated badly? Mr. Chairman. Trafficking in human beings in other sectors is, however, one of the sectors in which people are vulnerable to violence and exploitation and where there is also a relatively high level of trafficking in human beings. It goes without saying that we must make every effort to deal with trafficking in human beings and the abuse of sex workers. The cabinet is committed to an integrated approach, a combination of prevention, protection of victims and tackling offenders. We support this line, as we support stepping up this approach and increasing capacity. The question we are asking today is whether a further criminalisation of customers can contribute to the effective approach to trafficking in human beings. The first question we need to ask ourselves is whether the current criminal offences do not comply and whether there is not much more to be done to enforce these standards. For example, having sex against the known will of the victim is already punishable by sexual assault or rape, the benefit of trafficking in human beings is already punishable and sex against payment with a minor is already punishable. In my group's view, the written response of the initiators has not yet made sufficiently clear why these offences would not provide sufficient relief. What specific situations should we consider which are not yet punishable under the current law? Is it not true that when someone indicates that they are being forced or when signs of coercion or exploitation are obvious, they can already be prosecuted for sexual assault or rape? Is this sufficiently tried by prosecuting rape using another fact in cases where there was evidence of trafficking in human beings? Are there any statements in which this led to an acquittal, whereas the proposed criminalisation might have resulted in a conviction? Can the initiators indicate even more precisely in what situations the current criminal offences do not comply with? Does it matter, for example, whether we are talking about visible prostitution on the walls of brothels, or about prostitution that takes place in secret and in the invisible? Mr. Chairman. In criminal law we have a requirement for provision, the so-called lex certa.] In its opinion on the legislative proposal, the Council of State considered that the debt variant of the proposed criminalisation on this point is problematic if it is not established in advance what circumstances one should reasonably suspect a human trafficking situation. Should we not say that if signs of trafficking in human beings are not so clear that they qualify as another fact in the rape and sexual assault articles, they also cannot qualify as a circumstance on the basis of which you know or seriously suspect that there is trafficking in human beings? If not, why not? And where exactly is that line? If there's a difference, what's it in? I would ask both the initiators and the minister to reflect once again on this issue and again on whether there are any possible differences between what I call prostitution in the visible and invisible sectors. A follow-up question, both to the initiators and to the minister, is to enforcement. What are the expectations regarding the enforcement of the proposed criminalisation, also in view of the experience of enforcing the current criminal acts in terms of exploitation and violence against sex workers? How do you expect cases to come to the attention of the police? How do you estimate the evidence? On what do you base these expectations? My group still has doubts about the enforcement and therefore the practical significance of the legislative proposal. The criminalisation would have symbolic value in particular. That does not have to be disqualification. Criminal standards can contribute to tackling socially unwanted behaviour, even if criminalisation is difficult to enforce. The condition is that no negative side effects can be expected. On this point, too, we see some bottlenecks in the legislative proposal. These bottlenecks are mainly due to the adverse effects that the bill may have on sex workers who are not victims of human trafficking but who work in the field of human trafficking. I have already mentioned it as the visible sector. Firstly, we see the risk that customers who see signs of possible exploitation or abuses will be less willing, through the proposed criminalisation, to report them, whether anonymous or not. Previous campaigns in which customers were made aware of signals of abuses have in the past led to more reports of suspicions of exploitation. It is obvious that customers will report less quickly if they could expose themselves to prosecution. Secondly, sex workers themselves point to the risk of criminalisation contributing to the criminalisation of sex workers. This would make sex workers more vulnerable to abuse, as is the experience in the countries that are committed to criminalising customers. The First Chamber received a letter from the platform SexwerkExpertise. I assume that the initiators and the Minister have also been able to take note of this letter. Can they address the concerns of sex workers about the adverse effects of the law? This letter also states that it is not acceptable for a proposal to be presented as an improvement in the position of sex workers when they do not recognise themselves in it and see the negative effects of the proposal. I'm getting the same signals in messages I'm receiving from individual sex workers. Do the initiators agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that measures taken to protect and improve the position of a particular group should not be taken without at least hearing that target group? "Not over us, without us" is an important starting point. Have the initiators had this consultation with sex workers, victims of trafficking in human beings and their organisations? If not, why not? If so, how was this included in the proposal? Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to take a small step in relation to the vulnerable position of sex workers. Just as criminalising sex work increases the vulnerability of sex workers, so does not normalising sex work as ordinary work, with the corresponding rights. The signals I am getting about the impact of the COOVID-19 measures on sex workers are alarming. They are not allowed to work, but are also excluded from all forms of state aid because they usually operate through a so-called opt-in scheme where they are not employees and therefore cannot benefit from the NOW scheme, but are not self-employed and therefore not entitled to Tozo. Some sex workers see no other option than to go to work illegally. Victims of trafficking in human beings in prostitution may be forced to do so, with all the risks involved. Risks of corona contamination, but also risk of exploitation and violence, because customers know that sex workers will not go to the police because they shouldn't have worked. Is the Minister aware of these signals? Why is there still no solution to a financial compensation for sex workers affected by a loss of income from the corona measures? What is the government doing to prevent the abuse of sex workers who still work? Mr President, I will conclude. The fight against trafficking in human beings and exploitation is something we like to fight together with the initiators. Not from a moral judgment on prostitution that leads to wanting to save prostitutes, whether they like it or not, but from measures that are legally sustainable and enforceable and that do not result in signs of human trafficking being reported less often and sex workers becoming more vulnerable. My group, as you have heard, still has doubts and questions on this point. We are therefore waiting for the answer with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Then I give the floor to Mr Janssen, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, I would like to congratulate you on this initiative, which started in 2014 as an initiative of Mr Segers, Mr Rebel and Mr Kooiman. Through the member Volp it finally became the initiative proposal-Segers, Kuik, Van Nispen and Kuik. Now, almost six and a half years later, the proposal in the First Chamber comes to a conclusion. The first question you have to ask after so many years of course is whether the proposal is still relevant or whether it has been overtaken by developments over time. You are aware of this proposal. Reading everything back, from the beginning in 2014 there was a discussion between fores and opponents, but it was fores and opponents who ultimately want the same thing, namely protecting those who need protection and also tackling those who use wrongdoing. Over the years, in addition to the examination in the Lower House, there has been a very detailed written exchange of arguments. The First Chamber organised an expert meeting in 2016, where this initiative proposal was discussed. This makes it clear that the dilemmas are clear to everyone, as is evident from the written rounds of questions. It also makes it clear that this is not a black and white bill. In the end, each group will have to consider the pluses and the minuses of this initiative proposal in the light of this debate. At the 2016 expert meeting, the then National Rapporteur on Human Trafficking and Sexual Violence against Children, Ms Dettmeijer, gave her opinion on the initiative proposal. I quote: "I appreciate the initiative. It was also a recommendation from me. As far as I'm concerned, it fills a gap." Asked about the expected effects she gave to.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Some things also change the way you look at them and the importance you attach to them. We see, building on that, in today's corona time a number of very worrying developments. Mr De Boer has already spoken about this. There is a huge increase in child pornography on the Internet, of sextortion cases and of paedophiles' practices, as the phenomenon is now popularly called. I do not go into each of these subjects, but the practice of the past year makes it painfully clear that there is a market for this type of abuse. That sounds harsh, but there is. When there is a demand, there is also a supply, a supply associated with trafficking in human beings, coercion, exploitation and abuse. We cannot make the mistake of underestimating that question. There are a lot of things that remain hidden, but it is certainly not isolated cases. Hundreds of cases are now coming to light and that seems to be just the tip of the iceberg. Let me therefore be perfectly clear from the outset. As SP, we see the present initiative proposal, as well as the National Rapporteur and the College of Attorneys General, as a complement to existing legislation, with the aim of preventing abuse and to be able to act even better if this abuse does occur. The questions I would like to ask the initiators are not so much about why, but above all about how. In how I also count on how we can ensure that we can minimise the risk of any negative effects that have been rightly pointed out and which we must take very seriously. The initiators point in particular to the preventive effect that the initiative proposal will have to take. Have they thought about how the legislative proposal can be widely brought to the attention of the public in order to actually achieve that preventive effect? That's a question I'm asking the Minister too. My next question is how we can prevent the reporting of abuses from being affected by this bill. Have the initiators thought about this? It's one of the possible negative effects that I was just talking about. The written answer identifies and defines a number of situations, but my question to the initiators is how they will make this clear in advance, so that this is clear to everyone at the time of their possible entry into force. This, of course, also contributes to legal certainty. Has there been any contact with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, for example? If so, what was the result? The SP considers it wise that during the examination of the bill in the Lower House the description of the offence of the proposed article 273g criminal law was adapted by replacing the "ordinary debt" variant with a "conscious debt" variant. Thus, while the lower limit of the criminal liability of the customer using the services of a prostitute has been increased in the event of a serious suspicion of victimisation of trafficking in human beings, the foreseeability of the risk of criminal liability has been improved. Do the authors share the view of the SP Group that preventive action is being increased, because criminal action focuses on those situations where the customer ignores obvious signs of trafficking in human beings? I'd like a response from the initiators. Can the proposers comment on the consideration that they have made in this proposal for an initiative not to set a limitative limit on circumstances which make it clear that a prostitute has serious reason to suspect that a sex worker is the victim of trafficking in human beings? I also support this choice and I can imagine everything, but I would like to have a further explanation, because this is a crucial point that has been reflected in the discussions since 2014. I would like to have that clarified again. Mr. Chairman. Looking at everything, having read everything and having followed everything it is nice to see old colleagues again in another role in the House of Representatives, after they have flown out as mayor, alderman or otherwise I can say in conclusion that the SP is positive about this initiative proposal. Positively in the belief that we should never look away from injustice and that we should never stop defending the rights of victims of trafficking in human beings and punishing those who maintain exploitation and, more importantly, those who use it, even though they could reasonably have known that they did so. Unfortunately, however, it is also inevitable that there will still be abuse, trafficking in human beings and exploitation even after the entry into force of this bill. That won't be gone. But my hope and expectation is that this will be less because of this initiative proposal. The impact of this initiative proposal should be to ensure that the proposal is effective in its preventive effect and to increase the likelihood of criminal prosecution being successful. It doesn't solve everything, but it has to be an improvement. We must never give up to continue to work on the eradication of injustice. And we must never give up hope for a society without injustice and exploitation. We must do everything in our power to do so, and we must continue to believe in it, each in its own way. That is why, finally, my thoughts are the end of the song I believe of the recently deceased Jeroen van Merwijk: "And at the risk of being worn out for fools, I believe that one day everything will be beautiful and good. With the courage of despair and against better judgment, I continue to believe, because I have to. I keep believing because I have to. I keep believing because I have to."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you. We also congratulate the initiators of this bill. Mr. Chairman. Miscriminalising sexual acts with a prostitute when the client knows or has serious reason to suspect that he or she is being forced to do so is what we are talking about today. It concerns the customer who uses sexual services and thus contributes to the maintenance of a network of exploitation and trafficking in human beings. This customer is punishable if he does not refrain from using those services while there are signs of victimisation. As the proposal shows, these signals include external signals, such as signs of abuse, or expressions of fear, aversion, coercion. But even if the prostitute offers herself in remote locations, or if the way in which the customer comes into contact is different from normal, the customer must be aware that this may be about forced prostitution. Mr. Chairman. I was in shock when I, not in pieces of you, but in other reports read that in the Netherlands almost half of all victims of trafficking in human beings, namely 46.3%, are covered by "I'm gonna choke on domestic sex trafficking, so domestic sexual exploitation. Ethnic profiling is, of course, similar to curses in the church, and yet I would like to mention that earlier this month a report by the CKM, the Centre Against Trafficking in Children and Trafficking in Human Beings, was published showing that 80% of the loverboys have a migration background. But let's get this over with. As the proposal shows, this distinction is made between intent on the part of the customer, or guilt on the part of him when he is engaged in sexual acts with a person who, as it turns out, is forced into such sexual acts. When the prostitute knows that the prostitute to be visited is a victim of trafficking in human beings, it is deliberate. There is guilt if the prostitute does not know and uses the services, but should have known that there is victimisation. In that case, therefore, it is not a question of intent, but of guilt. As far as I understand, this bill is intended to criminalise both variants. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear. My group is absolutely in favour of tackling abuses in the sex sector. The law on the regulation of prostitution and the fight against sexual abuse was a good starting point for this. It included the obligation to register the prostitute and the obligation to make the customer aware, which were subsequently removed from the law. The latter was very contrary to our wishes, and certainly when it comes to the removal of the obligation to register. It would create, in our view, a moment of contact at which signals of exploitation could be picked up. We had less difficulty with the expiry of the obligation, because we do not believe that having the prostitute registered by the customer will receive any signs of exploitation or trafficking in human beings. It is precisely the deletion of the obligation to register and the obligation to delete that obligation that we want to repair that. Therefore, the legislative proposal sounds sympathetic, but my group provides problems with the burden of proof and, as a result, with the enforcement. The PVV Group believes that it goes too far to charge customers for the fact that they sometimes do not recognize vague signals. This point has also been raised by the Association for Women and Law. In her letter of 25 February last, she states that the Council of State, in its recent opinion on the bill for the Sex Work Regulation Act, indicates that it is also a challenge for professionals to recognise victims of trafficking in human beings or exploitation in the sex industry, despite years of experience in identifying this target group. Add to that that the customer becomes punishable at the time he should have known that the prostitute is being forced. A bridge too far for my group. Because what happens when it turns out that the customer has failed in recognising a victim of trafficking in human beings in good time, but that this also applies to aid workers and police? Are they going to be prosecuted? In doing so, we wonder whether the proposal actually makes a significant contribution to addressing the problems. After all, the same letter from the Association for Women and Law shows that practice in neighbouring countries, including Finland, shows that the proposed criminalisation is not helpful in combating trafficking in human beings, but, on the other hand, has a negative impact on the safety and access to facilities of sex workers, so that there is no question of improving the position of sex workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u8	Did I hear Mrs Bezaan say that possibly police officers - who do not recognise the signs of possible abuse of prostitutes - could also be prosecuted? I think I heard her say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u9	That's perfectly correct. But it was actually more sarcastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u10	Because I believe that there is also a condition for being punishable by a sexual interaction with the relevant prostitute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u11	You're absolutely right about that. But again, it was a sarcastic remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u12	Then we agree on the qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u13	I hear Mrs Bezaan questioning the usefulness of this bill on behalf of the PVV. At the same time, I would like to ask her, precisely because the PVV is a party that loves law and order, how it weighs the appreciation of the Public Prosecutor and the National Rapporteur on Human Trafficking in respect of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u14	If you don't mind, I'll get back to that in my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u15	Of course I'm okay with that. I'm waiting in suspense. I'm hoping for a wonderful twist in her story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. My colleague Lilian Helder gave another reason for doubting the contribution of the proposal during the examination of the proposal in the Lower House. She then referred to the Valkenburg vice case. In it, clients of an underage girl who was forced into prostitution were sentenced by the judge to only one day's imprisonment in order to circumvent the statutory public service ban. Thus, customers were in fact sentenced to community service for a serious sexual offence. Of course, this was not about trafficking in human beings, but about forcing a minor to commit sexual acts - Article 248b of the Code of Criminal Law - but that does not alter the seriousness of the crime. In both cases it is a question of protecting the physical and mental integrity of the victim. In this country we have separated the powers. This means that we cannot send a judge into the punishment he imposes. The only way to do that is to change the law. That is why the question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to introduce minimum penalties for crimes involving the exploitation of people, including sexual exploitation. Then there is a lower limit to the punishment that should be imposed at least for this type of serious crime. I'd like a response from the Minister. As far as the PVV Group is concerned, the current approach to trafficking in human beings must be improved before we introduce sympathetic, but difficult, criminalisation into the law. It is the traffickers who need to be dealt with first. It is already a great challenge for the investigation services to get a picture of them and prosecute them. So, for the time being, my group does find the initiative legislative proposal to be sympathetic, but in practice it is difficult to enforce, so that it will not have any added value in practice. We are happy to be convinced, but at the moment our position is that we will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. Mrs Bikker, on behalf of the Christian Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have just heard Mr Bezaan argue quite passionately for the introduction of minimum penalties. I conclude from that that she believes that customers who do such things deserve to be punished. At the same time, there is a bill here which the Public Prosecutor's Office and the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings say would really be a supplement, because the customer is not sufficiently in sight in this area. The PVV then comes with this assessment. I would like to hear a little more about the law-and-order side in the Netherlands, which advocates criminalisation. The PVV suddenly turns left drinking soft tea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u19	There's nothing soft about that. Look, it's just what you're assuming. The PVV believes that there is a greater threat from the corner of the perpetrators and not from the customers, but from those who commit trafficking in human beings. The moment you start doing that, it'll just slide. Of course you have to do something with the customers, but it's just a matter of weighing up what you think is more important. I'm sure you'll have to start with the instigators of the whole thing, so from the bottom up. I think it's more important that you can identify the perpetrators and get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u20	But one doesn't have to rule out the other, does it? I know the PVV as if they want to look at the whole picture on many points and name everything. Sometimes they blame other parties for not naming everything. Now the PVV suddenly sticks to part of the approach, while it is quite clear that Mrs Bezaan herself also mentioned examples that customers have a role to play in maintaining it. You said you were probably going to vote against it. But may I suggest to Mrs Bezaan that we take another look at that law-and-order side and just name the whole story, not a piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u21	Once again, I think I have just said in my text that we think it is a sympathetic proposal and that we would like to be convinced of the good. Perhaps you could contribute to that later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u22	Finally, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u23	Convincing the good seems a good condition for any debate. Let's face that challenge. I keep a little hope that, if we look at the position of the Public Prosecutor together, it can also be a serious reason for the PVV to weigh it slightly differently............................................................................................................................................................................................................ That'd be nice, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u24	I'm glad you think I can think on my own. I think that's very kind of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u25	I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group. Oh, excuse me, since you were ready, I thought you wanted to interrupt Mrs. Bezaan. I call the next speaker, Mrs Baay, from the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Special thanks also to the initiators for the many work carried out by an initiative legislative proposal. This bill dates back to November 2014. So it has come a long way. Colleagues Janssen and De Boer also mentioned this. This is remarkable in itself, because, in fact, every MP is against exploitation situations and degrading circumstances; matters inherent in trafficking in human beings within prostitution. The question then arises as to why this bill has had to go such a long way if there is a general consensus within our Parliament on the objectionability of trafficking in human beings. In my group's view, the answer to that question lies in the fact that the objective of this bill is not aimed at those directly responsible for trafficking in human beings, namely the perpetrators, such as pimps, operators of sex workers and loverboys. The criminality here focuses on the indirect offenders. This includes prostitutes, clients and visitors of prostitutes. Due to their demand for sexual services provided by victims of trafficking in human beings, they are jointly responsible for the continuation of trafficking in human beings within prostitution. The aim of the bill is to broaden and supplement the criminalisation of Article 273f of the Criminal Code by introducing the new Article 273g. This article specifically focuses on a separate criminalisation of those who use the services of the prostitute, knowing, or have a serious reason to suspect, that the prostitute is forced to prostitute, thus explicitly having sexual interaction against his will. For the sake of clarity, a visit to a prostitute offering her or his services on a voluntary basis is and remains not punishable. Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, in the response to page 6, the initiators refer to the newly proposed Article 237g of the Criminal Code. But that article is about bigamy, so I'm assuming this is a write-off. The same reply, as well as the Minister's letter of 14 October 2019, emphasises that the essential purpose of the legislative proposal is to ensure a legislative and preventive effect. It aims at both preventing and combating trafficking in human beings within prostitution. My group has doubts about this legislative and preventive effect. It is not clear from scientific research that simply criminalising a behavior by definition leads to the prevention or reduction of such behaviour. Crimes such as murder and rape have been in prison for centuries. Despite this, these are unfortunately still taking place on a daily basis. The extension of the criminalisation of the failure to report is proof of this. This amendment of the law was considered only from the point of view of standard explication of added value, but in practice did not lead to the desired result. Can the initiators and the minister indicate on what grounds they expect this legislative and preventive effect to contribute to reducing trafficking in human beings in prostitution? Mr. Chairman. In my group's view, awareness and awareness of the victimisation of trafficking in human beings could be better achieved through education and information, as the Victim Monitor shows that this form of trafficking in human beings not only knows the youngest victims but also the youngest offenders. It is well known that dozens of young children disappear from asylum seekers' centres every year, many of whom end up in prostitution. Much has changed due to the time lag between the start and the handling of this bill. Technology is playing an increasingly important role in sexual exploitation, as supply and demand meet on the Internet. It is not for nothing that the National Rapporteur therefore recommends that the same technology should be seen as an opportunity to discourage and detect perpetrators, for example by using legally permitted means to combat sexual exploitation and illegal prostitution. My group would like to hear from the initiators why they believe that we should not use much more effort to strengthen the resilience of potential underage victims so that they are more resistant to sex exploiters. Mr. Chairman. My group is still struggling with the component of the burden of debt, which is contained in the legislative proposal, and the burden of proof attached to it. A prostitute or visitor who knows that is the design variant of a sex worker in question who is a victim of trafficking in human beings and who nevertheless has sexual interaction with that sex worker is punishable. Similarly, a prostitute who should know that is a criminal offence, that is the debt variant, if it can be derived from the circumstances or behavior of the prostitute. I would like to hear from my group of the initiators whether the sexual interaction between prostitute and client is indeed a sine qua non for the criminalisation of the customer. Mr. Chairman. I'll explain. Should a visitor immediately think that there is involuntary sexual services at the prostitute, he will not commit a criminal offence, as I understand from the note on the basis of the report. On the basis of obvious signals, this visitor has obtained the knowledge that there is trafficking in human beings, but then he does nothing about it. He doesn't report it, he doesn't report it. Then why isn't this cover-up of the crime also a criminal offence? Please explain to the initiators whether and why in this case the prostitute remains unpunished. To what extent does the bill still meet the intended objective? Previously, the note on the report asked by the CDA Group what is meant by "evident signals." When the criterion of "serious reason to suspect" is met, the so-called "debt variant"? The initiators have given a non-limitative list of signals from which every well-thinking person must be able to see that one does not freely offer sexual services. Mr. Chairman. In this context, I refer to the address of Professor Kai Lindenberg, who notes that no distinction is made between deliberate and negligent or careless action. In the intended criminal determination, sex against the will, these acts are treated in the same way. This equivalence is reflected in suspicion and in external imaging. In the event of conviction, it has consequences for the subsequent Vog regime, the explanation of behaviour. How does this relate, I ask both the Minister and the initiators, to the bill on sexual crimes to be dealt with? In the case of sexual assault and rape, however, a clear distinction is made between deliberate and careless acts: sexual assault versus sexual assault. Together with Professor Lindenberg, my group asks the initiators why they did not choose to commit two separate crimes, namely deliberate and careless acts, with a different degree of penalty attached to them. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. It may be the case that the criminalisation of intent and carelessness in a single sentence is more common in the Code of Criminal Law, but that equivalence is never really explained. Precisely at present, it seems important for practice and science to see clearly in the parliamentary debate what the choice of whether or not to equate intent and carelessness in the description of the crime is based on. This choice is missing from my group in this case. Can the explanatory statement of the choice be given? Mr. Chairman. Even the initiators acknowledge that, should this bill enter into force, difficult border cases will arise in legal practice. Does this mean that its operation may be imaginary for the detection and prosecution of prostitutes? The offence for which the prostitute can be convicted under Article 273g will often be committed only in front of the prostitute and himself, with third parties missing. But even if there are third parties, he is equally punishable. In our criminal justice system, we apply the principle of nemo-tenetur: no one is obliged to provide evidence against himself and no one can be forced to cooperate in his own conviction. So the prostitute or the third person who is heard as a witness does not have to cooperate in his own conviction. The prostitute who is heard as a suspect may invoke his right to remain silent. For the time being, my group is therefore facing considerable problems of proof in order to reach a verdict on the basis of the proposed article of law. Mr. Chairman. My group is still concerned about the introduction of a label in the prostitution sector that has been suggested by the PvdA. The Minister's reply in his letter of 3 March this year invites the following questions. Then let me address the Minister of Justice and Security. I also ask the Minister for Legal Protection to answer this. Why should public certification in the sex sector not contribute to the prevention and detection of abuse of prostitutes? Certification, for example in the asbestos and hazardous substances sector, has a proven effective effect there. It would ensure registration and transparency in the sex sector. In addition, customers can easily check whether the sex worker has such a certificate, reducing the chance that he is dealing with someone who is forced to offer sexual services involuntarily. It does not provide waterproof guarantees, but the same applies to this bill. I'd like an answer from the Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. First MPs are co-responsible for the quality of legislation. Legal provisions must be practicable and enforceable in practice. In advance, my group doubts whether the provisions resulting from this legislative proposal will lead to the desired objective. With more than ordinary interest, I will take the answers of the initiators and the Minister so that my group can reach an informed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Documentary maker Jojanneke van den Berge followed women who want to leave the world of paid sex. In an interview with her in de Volkskrant on 2 March, she asks why customers often stay out of the picture when washing out the following things. "We tried to get an image of that group and put an ad on Sexjobs. In that we talked about "the youngest, hottest teenager." Within a few hours, we had 150 responses. In the contact afterwards, we dropped the word "minority." Then a few of them dropped out. Eventually we talked in a hotel room with men who could all be your neighbor. You notice that a vague sense of guilt does not arise until you explicitly submit the situation to them. One said: yes, I also have a 16-year-old daughter; it's actually not good that I'm here. Another was more honest about it and said that the lust for reason came. But he also said that the risk of being severely punished as a client of a minor sex worker is very small." Mr. Chairman. This quote is about underage sex workers. Their minority already gives them in theory criminal protection against customers who want to abuse it. Women and men who are victims of trafficking in human beings are almost entirely not protected against such men. I therefore congratulate the initiators on their efforts to offer this group more protection by also making the customer criminally liable. I note, however, that this seems to be happening with a detour. The evidence under this newly introduced Article 273g of the Criminal Code does not require proof of trafficking in human beings. This means that a prostitute can be convicted without actual trafficking in human beings. That's more or less what you can compare to debt healing instead of conspiracy healing. Therefore, the standard to be protected by the initiative law does not seem primarily to protect the victim, but rather to protect the dignity or public morality. The criminal purpose is to combat the prostitute's far-reaching immorality and promote a safe prostitution practice. Using sexual services in the knowledge that the sex worker does so as a result of human trafficking is far immoral. It borders on rape. The logical consequence of this criminalisation will therefore be the protection of the sex worker. Is this also the design chosen by the initiators, I ask. And see my group... I'm rehearsing my sentences. If my group sees this correctly, I also ask the Minister. If not, of course the follow-up question is: why not? The foregoing seems to be a right-wing theoretical exercise, but it is more than that, because it affects the penalty. In the light of the above, can the proposers explain again why they have joined in terms of criminalisation and the corresponding measures of punishment in terms of measures of exploitation and not in terms of measures of punishment that are in line with debt recovery? Another possible consequence of not having to prove trafficking in human beings is that this law makes it possible to use a fake victim by the police, in accordance with the case law, which lays down limits on inciting. Is that right? That is what I am asking both the initiators and the minister. Mr. Chairman. All too often the effectiveness of criminal law is overestimated. No miracles should be expected from this offence either. According to the initiators, the aim is mainly preventive, in the sense that there will not be many convictions in absolute numbers. My group agrees with this, but nevertheless considers this criminalisation to be proportionate. The prostitute is not a neutral third, but has its own moral, and if this law is passed also criminal, responsibility. This is what we consider to be the most normal case in the world when it comes to sex with minors, and this must also be the most normal case in the world for forced sex. My group asks the government how information is going to be provided in order to make the law known to the target group. In addition, the chance of getting caught remains an important element in the effectiveness of the criminalisation. This was also apparent from the quote I started with, in which a suspect stated that lust won it for the reason. In what way and when does the Minister engage with the prosecution in order to make the possibility of prosecution real? This conversation is urgent. It is precisely now that the visible side of prostitution has been closed as a result of the corona measures that my group fears that the abuse has increased considerably beyond sight in the past year, and precisely this invisible sector has already been so large. Mr. Chairman. The sex industry is, to a large extent, a digital industry. Does my group understand that the conduct of sexual acts with another person, as is now included in the article of the law, always mean physical acts? My question to the Minister is: what is the relationship in time, but also in substance, with the Law regulation prostitution? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the most difficult point for my group: the debt variant. The principle of legality requires that in advance it should be clear which acts are punishable. This remains difficult for the debt variant, because the examples remain vague. I quote the initiators about the debt variant: "This means that a person is only punishable if he has no choice but to be aware of the possibility of victimisation of trafficking in human beings. This is only the case if a customer finds a prostitute in circumstances which would give every sane person reason to assume that he is dealing with someone who does not offer sexual services of his own free will." My first question is, once again, why this is not covered by the 'conditional set-up'. Why is there any opposition to the Council of State's opinion, maintaining the, although weighted, debt variant? Can the initiators give an example of a case that is not subject to the conditional nature but is covered by the debt variant? The most concrete examples of the initiators are, and I quote again: "extreme signs of (serious) abuse, behavioural characteristics such as expressions of fear, aversion or grief, the presentation of the prostitute under duress or violence and the taking away of sexual services in an abandoned industrial area." These examples are credible, with the exception of the latter. The causal link between crying or bruising and trafficking in human beings is never certain, but working on an abandoned industrial site is perhaps a slightly too loose link, I ask the initiators. Is it possible for a prostitute like him to find such behavior or characteristics to be able to lift the criminality by asking it or by taking other actions? Or does he always have to turn right to rule out prosecution? A second less fundamental problem is the probativeness of the signals and the knowledge of the customer. Can the initiators explain how expressions of fear, aversion or grief can be proven? Is the single explanation of the sex worker, for example that she was crying, sufficient as proof of this element? Mr. Chairman. It is the task of the First Chamber to ensure the quality of legislation. Prostitutes also deserve legal certainty, predictability, enforcement and feasibility. It is precisely on these points that the First Chamber is supposed to be examining, and on these very points my group is not yet sufficiently convinced that the law provides for this. That's heavy. Then there is one final element: the quality mark. My group believes that the preventive effect of this law can be increased if it results in a serious and seriously enforced label. It promotes visible, regulated and controlled prostitution and thus reduces vulnerability to trafficking in human beings. Are the initiators of the same opinion or is visible and authorised prostitution sufficient? Is it known to a customer who is authorised to work? Shouldn't this law be just about the invisible, shady part of prostitution? A customer is not punishable if he comes to a licensed or certified prostitute, except, of course, for exceptions where the trafficking in human beings is also covered by a label. Can the initiators and the minister respond to this? Mr. Chairman. Trafficking in human beings cannot be eradicated by regulation or criminal acts alone. It will always be there, as will the vulnerability of the sex worker to human trafficking or other exploitations. A profession like everyone else will therefore never be. Better protection for the sex worker and public morals, in the sense that customers also know that not everything can be done, is in place. My group is therefore in principle in favour of this law, but still hopes to get good answers to its questions. That would make the final trade-off much easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Dittrich, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the group of D66, I would like to congratulate the initiators, the Dutch MPs Segers, Kuik, Van Nispen and Kuik on the initiative they have taken. It always takes a great deal of work and perseverance to write and defend an initiative legislative proposal. The same applies, of course, to their advisers and employees. Mr. Chairman. Trafficking in human beings is a truly terrible phenomenon that runs counter to the principle of human equality. Trafficking in human beings also sees a wide range of topics. It may be about slave labor or about forced organ donation, but this bill is about human trafficking in relation to the sex industry. When someone works and is exploited involuntarily as a prostitute, it is unacceptable and must be dealt with. Trafficking in human beings is punishable, even if it takes place in prostitution, in article 273f of the Code of Criminal Law. The initiators add an extra dimension to this. They criminalize the prostitute who has sex with someone else, while he knows or had serious reason to suspect that the other person is the victim of trafficking in human beings. Mr. Chairman. Before I became a Member of Parliament for D66 in 1994, I was a criminal officer in the Alkmaar court and dealt with thousands of criminal cases. One of those things in the multiple chamber has always been with me because of the horror and seems to me also relevant to this debate. A couple was on trial. In the basement of their house they had a sex room built, where a young woman from Indonesia, whom they had attracted as au pair, was locked up. The woman of the house, looking at a neat lady, arranged for men from the area to have sex with that young woman. She had taken her passport and literally chained her up when she had to leave the house. At one point, that couple went away for a weekend and the young woman was locked up in the basement. She was chained up like a dog with food and drink right by the bed in that sex cellar. With a nail file she managed to file the necklace, after which she escaped and entered the police. The couple was on trial. I remember thinking as a criminal at the time: it is very strange that men from North Holland had sex with this young woman, but not stand trial. The D.A. didn't subpoena them. In that case, it simply had to be that the customers knew that they were dealing with a victim of trafficking in human beings. This initiative proposal makes it possible to criminalise the customer or the prostitute in situations like this, in situations where he knows or has serious reasons to suspect that he is having sex with a victim of trafficking in human beings. Mr. Chairman. More morally, D66 therefore likes this bill. Exploitation of people who have to perform sexual acts involuntarily is unacceptable. But as co-legislator, it has already been said that we must ensure that laws are carefully formulated and that there is a need to add a criminal ban to the arsenal of existing criminal prohibitions. We will review the proposal in terms of feasibility, enforcement and the rule of law. The proposal raises a number of questions that we would like to ask the initiators and the Minister. The Article 273g proposed by the initiators refers to the content of Article 273f (1), the trafficking in human beings. I must also say that this is a very difficult article to read. It would therefore be a good thing if it were to be reworded in the course of a revision of the code. That article refers to the presence of an exploitation situation, which means that the victim is in a vulnerable situation which offers the opportunity to exploit. Then there is something in this legislative structure that I still do not understand. I have already raised it in the written preliminary phase. The initiators criminalise sex with a victim of trafficking in human beings, but they also argue that not all the elements of Article 273f need to be proven. And that is the article that criminalizes trafficking in human beings. Is it not an internal contradiction to criminalise the prostitute of a victim of trafficking in human beings, while not having to prove all the components of trafficking in human beings? I would also like a response from the Minister. In some countries, such as Sweden, buying sexual services is punishable, regardless of whether it is a sex worker who is a victim of trafficking in human beings. This Swedish model, in which prostitution is illegal, meets a lot of criticism. The criminalisation of prostitutes in Sweden has led to the repression of invisible forms of prostitution, e.g. home working where there is no control and protection of sex workers. I quote Mrs Vanwesenbeeck, Professor of Social Sciences at the University of Utrecht and connected to the Rutgers Knowledge Centre: "The only thing that has decreased is visibility, but the golden rule is: the stronger the repression, the more invisible the sex workers, the stronger the grip of criminals, the greater the threat to the health of sex workers and public health." Another quote: "The threshold of sex workers to the police, justice and aid is increasing. They were getting less and less public rights." My question to the initiators is: do the initiators see criminalisation as a first step towards a complete criminalisation of prostitutes? I ask this with such emphasis because initiator Segers asked the cabinet in 2019 to investigate this Swedish model. The Christian Union also declared itself in favour of this Swedish model in the Second Chamber debate of September 2020 at the mouth of MP Van der Graaf. I say this with such emphasis because the D66 Group rejects that Swedish model, assuming that voluntary sex work should be properly regulated, including for the protection of the sex worker. In the proposed Article 273g, paragraph 1, the prostitute is punishable if he knew during sex or had serious reason to suspect that the sex worker is a victim of trafficking in human beings. Why do the initiators expect prostitutes to report human trafficking to the police if they are at risk of incriminating themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u31	I am listening with interest to Mr Dittrich. We can discuss which model works best to tackle the terrible abuses, but I have not actually heard about the current policy. I am actually still trying from your words the idea that legalisation is the solution to deal with the abuses. I just picked up an interview with the National Trafficking Officer. Nothing has been achieved of everything we intended to do in 2000 with the abolition of the brothel ban: regulate voluntary prostitution, combat involuntary abuse and fight wrongdoing. How do you see the current policy? Are you still behind that? Or do you say, no, at least we have to get rid of that and we have to think of something better with each other to deal with these terrible abuses and the tyranny of human trafficking and prostitution in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u32	I fully agree that we all need to find something better than the current situation. I myself see an opportunity to strengthen the implementation organisations in particular. As the other Minister of Justice said in his recent book, the whole justice chain is underwhelmed and cannot tackle a lot of crimes and abuses properly. So I think there's a lot of profit there in the system that regulates sex work and connects it to permits, maybe with a label. This was discussed earlier by Mr Recourt in this debate. That's all things we're looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u33	I think it is very good to hear that the current system is not sufficient, at least as far as D66 is concerned; I say this in a very general way. The point is what I mentioned in the quote of the National Trafficking Officer. His key point is that by making a legal sector we can never deal with trafficking in human beings, because the big problem is that, because you have a legal sector, you create the possibility that women can work here without being noticed if they do not want to. It is precisely the existence of a legal sector that makes this approach to trafficking in human beings so complicated. Do you see that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u34	My answer is, if you make it illegal, you won't solve that problem at all. On the contrary, you can make it more visible and attach it to all kinds of rules. You must of course maintain them properly. Because with that, you still have sex workers who are in a difficult situation. We want to protect them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u35	Clear, but I think this is entirely the reasoning that led us to go for the abolition of the brothel ban. That didn't work, did it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u36	My point is that it could work, provided it is well maintained, provided it is well practicable, if municipalities also take their role seriously and if we can look at other methods, such as licensing, perhaps a label and all of that kind of thing. There is, moreover, a government bill coming up, which covers it in a broader context. I shall come back to that later in my contribution. That bill allows us to hold that debate at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u37	I know Mr Dittrich as a broad-minded man, and I think he is part of a broad-minded group. What is more beautiful than the fact that another group of people on the other side, although I have a little bit more party colour, has said: let's also look at other models, for example the Swedish model, to see how we are taking care of as few victims as possible of trafficking in human beings. We can have a whole debate on how we then appreciate the results, but I think there is another legislative proposal for this. This is precisely in view of the current model that the Netherlands is familiar with and which the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings has said that we have already moved a lot, also with municipalities, and that more needs to be done. There will also be a law on this subject, but there is one element missing, namely the position of the customer. This is also reflected in the treaties concluded by the Netherlands: the Warsaw Convention and the 2011 European Directive. I also know D66 as a party that loves Europe so much. I am therefore curious to see how Mr Dittrich appreciates the one element that is lacking in Dutch policy, namely the position of the customer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u38	It is true that this bill zooms in on a certain, limited aspect of the entire prostitution sector. I can see that. My question to the initiators is: is criminalising this one aspect a prelude to something much larger and wider, for example, the Swedish model? I would point out that this is a no go as far as the D66 Group is concerned. I have not yet made any further comments on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u39	Then I wait in suspense. Let us think from the current model, where D66 is clearly very much behind between the initiators, I think there is a bit of a difference, even though I have only read the election programmes, please look together at the position of the customer, which is mentioned in the various treaties and by the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, whom we have put in place in recent years to address these abuses. I therefore look forward to the further exchange of views with Mr Dittrich, but I also note that this bill is something other than a major system discussion on prostitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u40	The latter is certainly so. Perhaps in response to Mrs Bikker, I will still be in the position of the prostitute. My question to the initiators is: why do the initiators expect prostitutes to go to the police to report a terrible situation of exploitation and trafficking in human beings if they are at risk of incriminating themselves? If, for example, they make a report via the Report of Crime Anonymous I believe that Mrs Bezaan said this also then that is an anonymous report, then there is a witness in a situation where you actually only have the sex worker and that witness and then that statement cannot serve as hard evidence in a criminal case. So I do not have the impression that that will be a good workable system. In this respect, I have serious concerns about implementation. I therefore ask the government whether it expects that there will be prostitutes who will report criminal offences. Will the problem of victims of trafficking who have entered prostitution be tackled or resolved? What does the government expect from enforcement? Will the Government undertake that, in the context of the review of this bill, if it is adopted within three years of its entry into force, specific consideration will be given to prostitutes' willingness to report? Can the government indicate what accompanying policies have been organised to protect victims of trafficking in human beings? Because I also say to Mrs Bikker: we share that. These people must, of course, be protected from trafficking in human beings. My question to the government is therefore: is there a shortage of investigative capacity here to detect perpetrators of trafficking in human beings? And do the deficits within the Public Prosecutor's Office and the incumbent magistrate influence the handling of human trafficking cases once they are arrested and suspects are eventually prosecuted? As far as D66 is concerned, that is all in the key to protecting sex workers who have fallen into prostitution against their will. By letter of amendment, the original criminalisation has been narrowed for prostitutes who know or have serious reason to suspect during sex... Well, I already said that. There are a lot of situations, I would just like to put forward here, which are actually monitoring sexual services in a grey area. It will not be clear that the sex worker is a victim of human trafficking. It is only in those really very clear situations, as I described at the beginning of my speech, that this bill plays a role, but not in that grey area, I think. It'll be too hard for the D.A. to prosecute a prostitute who denies it. In response to questions from the D66 Group, the initiators replied that they expect the penalty determination, however limited in scope, to have a preventive effect. In the further reply, on page 8, they state: "The criminalisation provides the prostitutes with responsibility towards victims of trafficking in human beings. This responsibility will raise awareness among prostitutes, where they are considered to recognise and act on signals of exploitation. This will in practice lead prostitutes to refrain from reducing sexual acts and report the situation to agencies when recognising signs of possible exploitation. This is the most important contribution of this law: it prevents victims of trafficking in human beings from becoming victims again." With all due respect, but this passage about the main contribution of this bill is full of assumptions, of expectations, of wishful thinking, of suspicions. What do the initiators base on the fact that their ban is going to have this effect? Does the government share the rosy expectations of the initiators? Mr. Chairman. Secretary of State Broekers-Knol announced in 2019 here in the First Chamber a bill from the government to lay down further rules on prostitution, the so-called Law regulation sex work. Following the consultation round, that bill was sent to the Council of State on 13 July 2020. My question to the Minister is: what is the situation with this proposal? In September 2020, the Secretary of State promised the House of Representatives to conduct a good and thorough investigation into the various prostitution models used in the world and to compare these models, and also to look at the displacement effects by criminalising certain aspects of prostitution in relation to the protection of sex workers. I would ask the government also to send the investigation to the First Chamber, with an appreciation of the research results, so that we can discuss this with Mrs Bikker too in the First Chamber with the government about prostitution in a broad sense. Is the government prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. I look forward with interest to answering the questions I have put. I realise that the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European Parliament of D66 voted against the initiative legislative proposal. I like to say that we are open in this. As the First Parliamentary Group of the D66, we would like to await the answer. Then we will make our final position known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u41	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Van Dijk from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also congratulate the initiators on having managed to get this bill into the Upper House. Mr. Chairman. In the 19th century there was talk of the so-called Reveil, an international Christian revival movement in Western Europe. Personal piety went hand in hand with social involvement. This manifested itself in caring for the less fortunate and the poor, fighting alcoholism, helping neglected youth, helping people with disabilities, but also a great commitment to redeeming prostitutes from degrading circumstances. The famous politician Green van Prinsterer was one of the leading figures in this Reveil. The fight from the Reveil against prostitution was supported by important women's movements. Of course, because women are the biggest victims of prostitution. Eventually this led to a brothel ban at the beginning of the 20th century. That is why the ban on brotheling was abolished in 2002, precisely by parties who are full of women's rights: the most misogynistic action of the 21st century. And that in the name of freedom. Mr. Chairman. I know that the chairman of our First Chamber has performed on the Hour of Power programme, by Jan van den Bosch. Recently this program had a documentary about the Ukrainian Irina. For ten years, Irina was forced to be a prostitute and sell her body on the Amsterdam Walls. Her story is harrowing, but not unique. She had a difficult childhood in her homeland. She marries a man who is violent and eventually takes her children away from her. Then she's forced to dance naked on the table in a bar. Someone offers her a passport to get better work in the Netherlands, but what she doesn't know is that she is the victim of sex trafficking and will end up in prostitution. Amazing, but not unique. Every politician knows that. As alderman of Amsterdam, Lodewijk Asscher spoke about "commercial rape." The idea that most women in prostitution go to bed voluntarily and heartily with as many strange men as possible is a cruel myth and betrays, as far as I am concerned, an extremely crippled and humiliating view of women. In addition, prostitution itself is a laughable and immoral pastime. Sex isn't a business transaction, it's the crowning of a close love affair. Prostitution just leads to broken marriages and relationships. Children are usually the biggest victims. They learn that loyalty is an illusion, and its damage can last a lifetime. Mr. Chairman. Over the last few years, this Chamber has spoken in depth about undermining the rule of law, which takes place in a variety of ways: through criminals in local politics, through attacks on lawyers, but also through trafficking in human beings and exploitation through prostitution. The NRC recently put it in stone following a documentary about the famous and infamous whorehouse Yab Yum. I quote the NRC: "A brothel always stands with one leg in the underworld." That is the harsh reality and there is nothing romantic about it. Those who have followed the discussion on prostitution legislation a little over the last decade know that there are really nice plans. Only, they never make it to the law. Now, at last, there is a limited legislative proposal. I know that this Chamber is partly responsible for this slow process, but I also appeal to the Minister and the coalition parties. Why aren't there any meters made of this cabinet period? I thought there were agreements in the coalition agreement. Is the approach to these degrading practices not a priority? Should we continue to accept that criminals are laundering money and making money from the oppression of women? It is shameful, especially for themselves progressively called parties who say they care about women's rights. Lodewijk Asscher spoke in this light about comfort feminists, who look away from the rough reality in the tendon room and thus leave women in the cold. Mr. Chairman. In the light of the above, I am looking at the legislative proposal before us. The SGP sees this as a first modest step. With regard to this bill, I have a few comments to make after the extensive written procedures. Under Article 273f, the practice is now that it is very difficult to identify victims of trafficking in human beings. The procedures are long and painful for the victim. That will not change with this law, but what does change is that there is a strong signal to society that prostitutes also have a share in the abuse. You could say that part of this is already in the current legislation, just as you are punishable if you buy goods through healing and could reasonably have known this. In our view, the law is above all a powerful signal about prostitution itself. The law puts the finger on the sore spot that prostitution and trafficking in human beings are so often connected and that one of the important buttons to change this is looking at the demand side of prostitution. The law is thus a step towards a much broader discussion in society. Do we have to accept the prostitution system where since 2000 we've been pretending we've taken care of things like this even longer? That alone helps the victims. We are far from there with this law, but it is a step in the right direction, a direction leading to the criminalisation of prostitute visits as far as the SGP is concerned. The intense recent report by the Centre against Trafficking in Children and Trafficking in Human Beings points in the same direction. Prostitution and trafficking in human beings are completely tied up with each other. For every underage victim, there are just 20 customers. Customers are the oxygen of sexual exploitation. I would like to ask the Minister and the initiators for a substantive response to this report. I would also like to ask what conclusions we should draw from the fact that as many as 80% of the perpetrators have a migration background.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u43	I think that Mr Van Dijk and I are not very quick to agree on prostitution. I suggest we not discuss that today either. It strikes me that he equates prostitution and trafficking in human beings, and also constantly points to reports by the CKM and the National Rapporteur. But is he aware that these reports mainly point out that most exploitation situations do not take place in the regulated circuit? You're talking yourself about underage victims in the invisible circuit. It's already a criminal offence. What's the reflection on that? Following Mr Van Dijk's speech, I would like to see the following. You clearly see this as a way of addressing customers in broad and abolishing prostitution. I must say that if the initiators see that in the same way, that would be all the more reason for me not to vote in favour of this law. So I'd like to see a reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u44	Clear. I think that the last question has already been answered clearly in the written procedure, so that is of course their own concern. The first is that we have already had a little bit of an interruption debate that Mr Dittrich and I had just had. I referred to the views of the national human trafficking officer, but I can also give another example. I mentioned Louis Asscher. When he started as an alderman in Amsterdam and started his Wallen approach, these were also exactly the counter-reactions: "Yes, but you press them underground" and whatever. We're on our own. Asscher rightly indicated, and that is true, that if you put enough capacity and enforcement on it, it has not been said at all that it pops up elsewhere. Asscher has proved in Amsterdam that this does not have to go one-on-one. Secondly, if we use the reasoning of 'let's not get it so bad, because it disappears into illegality', you could say with the same reasoning, somewhat provocatively put, that we should take theft out of criminal law. It will always be there; lay down as it were. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u45	Yes. It is very difficult to argue if Mr Van Dijk continues to shift human trafficking and prostitution equally. The point is that we need to tackle trafficking in human beings. I believe that this is more frequent and more difficult to tackle, especially in those sectors that remain invisible. If this bill does anything, I think it will do something there. However, I fear that we will not get out of this, because then I hear arguments that we cannot then ban prostitution. That's a different goal, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u46	Clear. I hope we don't speak past each other. I have the idea that your main thrust is: make sure you take good care of that legal sector, because then we can take steps and then you can also tackle illegality better. I quote the national officer: 'The existence of a legal sector makes it so complicated to deal with trafficking in human beings'. That is his position and he bases it on 15 years of work in that sector. This approach therefore does not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u47	What I know is that this is not explicitly the position of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u48	We'd like to talk about that again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u49	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Meijer on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would of course also like to congratulate the initiators on their commitment to this proposal. I refer specifically to Mr Segers, who was already with the first initiators in September 2014. It has become a long journey since 2014. The proposal has been in this house since 2016, in the Upper House. In my view, the main reason for this long journey is the coincidence with the legislative activities of the government on this subject, which still exists. In the letter from the Minister for Justice and Security of 21 January 2021, in which he responds, among other things, to questions from our group, he again outlines the different perspectives of the two legislative paths. He states that it is therefore wise to prosecute them separately from each other. Let me say first of all that the members of the VVD Group feel the most attuned to the government's approach and draft legislative proposal on regulation of sex work. I would like to stress, on behalf of my group, that this is without prejudice to the fact that we, too, consider it natural that trafficking in human beings and the related prostitution should be combated. I am aware that sexual exploitation is the greatest form of exploitation. It is to be commended to the initiators that they have increased awareness on this subject. But after this common starting point, the differences between the two routes are also important for our group. In Article 40 of the Government's legislative proposal in the course of proceedings, criminalisation acts as a criminal act of a licensing system for sex work. Punishment is made the conduct of sexual acts with a prostitute who works without a permit. This is considered an offence. For the certificate of proof, it is sufficient that the licence is missing. The initiative proposal before us is a crime against personal freedom. The criminal charge is to abuse an exploitation situation in which another person finds himself. The distinction between the seriousness of the criminal conduct is also reflected in the significant differences in the penalty ceilings, but the main focus for my group is the proof of this. A proven statement shall require proof or serious suspicion of the customer of an exploitation situation in the initiative proposal. Where the First Chamber pays special attention to enforcement and feasibility of legislation, it is good if the initiators and the Minister once again respond to that evidence. The Advisory Section of the Council of State was already very critical of this. It also plays a role in the fact that trafficking in human beings as a crime is already difficult to prove. In addition, the Section did not consider it sufficiently foreseeable for a customer to be liable for criminal offences. This was also a key point of the debate in the Lower House and in the written preparation. It was also a key point of the debate in the Lower House and in the written preparation. I have heard several colleagues again today asking questions about this. I have, of course, also studied the differences between conditional intent and debt. It has also not escaped our attention that the burden of proof has been tightened from a "reasonable" to a "serious" presumption during the proceedings in the Lower House. There will undoubtedly be a fine legal discussion in the rest of the debate. So we are also looking forward to the Minister's input on this issue. I think the discussion will show that it is difficult to get such a distinction really sharp. That's why we look at it emotionally. The VVD Group believes that the initiative proposal goes a long way. We're dealing with a legal profession. For this purpose, the government is preparing a licensing system, including for the now unauthorized part of the industry. In our opinion, abuses can be addressed. As has already been said, it is sufficient for the certificate to be proved that the necessary authorisation is not available. That seems to me to be a viable and enforceable system. Then you can end up in criminal court with the customer, who can easily verify the presence of such a permit. But that's not the angle, that doesn't feel right. In addition, as GroenLinks pointed out in the preparation and, among other things, D66 said today, you may have concerns about the customer's willingness to report under the own-initiative proposal system. They can therefore incriminate themselves. This will not promote the treatment of prostitution and trafficking in human beings. We have a lot of doubts about this initiative proposal, but of course we expect with interest the reaction of the initiators and the minister before our group reaches a final verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. Mrs Bikker has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Pale, big empty eyes, just 18 years old. She didn't speak English, German, French, let alone Dutch. Just in front of the Utrecht tipping zone, she was standing, this young girl. It was a brief encounter that burned on my retina. As a young councilman in the city of Utrecht I went to work with the police and before the work visit had started well, there was this situation. In my city, where we celebrate freedom, where so many young people, students of all kinds, blossom. In my city, it was such a poignant contrast. And from that day on, I have planned to stand for the freedom of the most vulnerable in my city. We can differ on anything, but in the meantime, please, let's keep looking together for what we can do to prevent exploitation. And let us ensure that those who maintain exploitation do not go free. Today there is a legislative proposal that takes a significant step in that direction. In a broad coalition of parties working together to make a new contribution on this very point. I congratulate the authors on this proposal, as well as previous Members of Parliament from the various proposing groups, on the long and persistent path they have taken. This bill is important in the fight against poignant situations of sexual exploitation. Each year, at least 3,000 victims are affected. Since the arrival of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, we have gained more insight into this. This rapporteur has made it clear that it is time that we also looked at the position of the customer, because: without customers, no offer. This is evident from court cases, as documented by documentaries, which are also on display these weeks. The customer remains out of sight and is rarely confronted with his responsibility. That looking away from and even more so, maintaining inhuman conditions is unacceptable. The Christian Union Group believes that the present legislative proposal is a good starting point for this very reason. A moral rejection fits here, but not just that. This has to have a place in criminal law. Only the customer who knows, or has a serious reason to suspect, that the other person is being exploited is subject to criminalisation. This has to have a place in criminal law. Only the customer who knows or has serious reason to suspect that the other person is being exploited is subject to criminalisation. Thus, every year 3,000 cases of sexual exploitation are reported, of which more than 1,300 underage Dutch girls. The police estimate that the actual numbers are significantly higher. The Group of the Christian Union regrets these serious figures in our country, and stresses precisely that customers who have any suspicion that something is not right deserve responsibility. This bill raises the border. It states that the customer is punishable if he knows, or has serious reasons to suspect that there is coercion or exploitation. I have seen how this legislative amendment, on the proposal of GroenLinks, was made in the House of Representatives, and that this tightening-up has been achieved in order to promote acceptance, because there was a shudder for unjust criminalisation. I heard that again with colleagues. But I also ask the Minister to develop a more robust policy to make customers aware of their responsibilities. I ask him to keep an eye on how this variant works in the evaluation of this bill. Because, yeah, there's a difference. A variant has been chosen in Sweden in which only intent is punishable. But then we saw zero prosecutions. That doesn't work. We also know that another choice has been made in England. There they go a step further. To do justice to the questions that colleagues ask: are there any known cases of unjust criminalisation? And if not, how much does the Minister weigh? For the Group of the Christian Union, the previous bill containing the text proposed by the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings, which was punishable by a customer who could "reasonably suspect" was also a passable road, also in the light of the quickscan carried out by the University of Groningen and the conclusions drawn on the burden of proof in the various variants. But the bill has been amended. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats then looked at the possibility of actual persecution. On the basis of previous discussions with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, we can confirm that: yes, a workable prosecution practice is still possible. The Eerste Kamer focuses on checking legality, including the involvement of international treaties in the present legislative proposals. The authors of this bill today have the special honour of fulfilling an international commitment which the Netherlands has undertaken but has not yet implemented. The approach to the demand side, the client of the prostitution, is an important part of the integrated approach to trafficking in human beings in the prostitution sector. The Warsaw Convention and the 2011 EU Human Trafficking Directive provide for Member States to criminalise the use of services by a prostitute when the customer knows she is a victim of trafficking in human beings. The Netherlands had not yet committed this criminality, while all those involved in dealing with trafficking in human beings have called for it to be done. I would like to thank the authors for their commitment to joining international practice. I ask the Minister whether there is any more homework in this area, or whether this has been carefully analysed in the broader legislative proposals in preparation in this area. With regard to feasibility and enforcement, the opinions of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings for the Group of the Christian Union weigh heavily. During the time this bill came into being, there was a lot of attention to human trafficking. In the meantime there is much more and much more talk of undermining; serious crime that infiltrates the upper world, and which is often in the media because of drug trafficking. This also applies today, with the grand trial being held in a court of law at the same time. It is, of course, entirely right that the Minister of Justice should fight this on behalf of all of us. But almost all major criminal organizations are known to be involved in drug trafficking. Unfortunately, trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation are also part of the permanent arsenal. In this light, the Christian Union Group stands alongside the Minister, side by side, in the structural approach to undermining. I strongly urge the government today not only to look at drug crime. Human trafficking investigations are long-term and require specialized human resources. There must be sufficient money and sufficient specialised human resources available for this. The approach to trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation also calls, and perhaps even more so, for firm commitment in all areas. It is precisely for this reason that it is important to speed up the legislative proposal Fighting abuses of the sex sector, the former Wrp. It's been way too long. It is time for municipalities to be clarified and the requirements for the authorised sector in the Netherlands to be aligned. In this house, it has previously been suggested that the present bill, which we are discussing here today, should wait for the time when that other law would pass here. But for a Chamber of reflection it is good to look at history. How long have we been waiting for that broad bill? And where did that waiting in that waiting room start? That began in this Chamber, with the request for a novelle. I've looked at the new bill and I've seen what kind of long journey it has to take. I wholeheartedly share the view of the Minister and the proposers that this can remain separate from the initiative law. Making the prostitute responsible does not have to wait, all the more so since many abuses occur in the unauthorized sector. It is perfectly possible to arrange this separately. The alarming figures on abuses underline that it is high time to stop letting the customer get away with the consequences of irresponsible behaviour. Mr. Chairman. I'll close with a personal word. About eight years ago, as a council member from Utrecht, I made the switch to the Second Chamber, as a policy officer. One of the burning motivations was my desire to stand up for young women in trouble. Women I had met at work visits in Utrecht. Emergency workers, agents and volunteers shared distress signals about them. I missed good legislation. I couldn't stand the fact that all those customers, who did know and found those wrongdoings, then looked away and went away with impunity. That motivated me at the time to go with one of the proposers, I think you can guess which one to start working on with the beginning of this legislation. When I then started in this house in 2015, as a senator, it was expected that we would soon talk about the Anti-mistakes Act sex industry. And that's what it takes. I am thinking of all the lessons learned in Utrecht around the closure of the Zandpad. And unfortunately it didn't come to that. But you understand that today, on the day that I am presumably making my last plenary contribution to this house, it is an important day. After all, today we have the opportunity to promote freedom, to support vulnerable people in dark places in our country a little bit, to appeal to those who maintain exploitation on their behaviour and, as a society, to reject that not only morally, but also criminally, so that every victim of sexual exploitation may know that the customers who maintain it will not get away without impunity. I would like to thank the authors for their efforts and express the hope that this Chamber will actually give its support to this House today next Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u53	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Mrs Nanninga has the floor on behalf of the group of the same name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the initiators of this bill. I stand here today as a representative of a conservative-liberal party. The liberal in our party welcomes the legal, licensed prostitution we know in this country. That's good, because then it can be safe and legal. Prostitutes aren't victims and clients aren't criminals. Still, Mr. Chairman, but still, still. We belong in society, but sometimes here too: it is just a profession, just like any other profession. I don't know. People who say that, I always ask them to do a little thought experiment. I'll tell them this. Imagine your parent, child or partner saying: you know what I'm doing, I'm going into prostitution. I'm just guessing that most people's reaction to that will be different than when their lover would say that he or she would become a postman or hairdresser. It's a rather special profession, isn't it? I think I'm saying my statement "prostitutes" aren't victims, and customers aren't criminals. That is why my group welcomes this bill. Some interesting questions have already been asked that I would like to join. I would like to ask the initiators and the minister whether, if someone is a customer in legal, licensed prostitution and it turns out that it is someone who is forced to do so, this is covered. That is not entirely clear from the pieces. So did they sort of exempt the client of legal prostitution from prosecution? The PVV also argued that not every case of what turns out to be human trafficking can be prosecuted. We must beware of situations that we know from dystopian future novels, which look at what's in your head, or could have been, and that you will be punished for that. That question has already been asked by people in this house: what about the burden of proof of the intended crime, the deliberate use of someone who is a victim of coercion or trafficking in human beings? That's still pretty complicated. But it does force the benevolent customers to think. And the bastards who think they're gonna have a good time quick and cheap can be punishable. I think it's more benevolent people who prefer to go to a legally licensed prostitute. At least they'll know for sure that they won't get justice done. I think it makes a difference for trafficked or forced people, who sometimes have to do the most horrible things in appalling circumstances, if we all decide that customers are also actors in this very big problem. I also share the hope expressed by Mr Janssen van de SP. Of course, this is not going to solve the human trafficking and illegal prostitution at one stroke. This is only part of a whole series of laws and rules: the barrier model. But care has been taken. I have seen that the College of Prosecutors-General of the Public Prosecutor, the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings, the Association for Justice and the Council for Justice have all contributed. The initiators have partly adapted their proposal accordingly. I am only missing the Council of State which has suggested that it should explicitly include the design variant. I would like to ask the authors why this has not been explicitly chosen. I think that would also make it easier to pass through this house. I told you before, customers aren't perpetrators. But, of course, they are personally responsible. And self-responsibility is, in turn, a liberal position. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. I call Mr Rietkerk on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a word of thanks to the initiators, both the current and the original originators or originators, and I would also like to mention them. Taking the initiative to submit a legislative proposal is an important constitutional right. We have heard this from other groups too, and we have heard that it takes the necessary work, sometimes also the most necessary work, energy and time. For example, at the beginning of 2000, together with Mr Dittrich, I was allowed to take the initiative to amend the Code of Criminal Law in connection with the expiry of the limitation period for the prosecution of, among other things, murder and manslaughter. That was a clear initiative, but it also took a lot of work, energy and time. Then we go to the proposal that is now before us. In our view, this is a somewhat more complicated initiative proposal. The CDA Group therefore appreciates that the initiators, whom I will mention later, are taking this initiative, knowing what work, energy and time it takes, including your advisers, I can imagine. Mr. Chairman. This bill is part of the fight against trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. Unfortunately, trafficking in human beings is still a topical problem. As mentioned above, reports by the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children show that the prostitution industry is particularly vulnerable in human trafficking. In our group's view, this observation requires action, including by the legislator. Trafficking in human beings is modern slavery. It is a serious violation of human dignity and integrity and constitutes a violation of human rights. At European level, too, efforts have been made to tackle trafficking in human beings. In addition to Article 5 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 4 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the ECHR, which explicitly prohibits trafficking in human beings, a Directive was adopted in 2001 to combat trafficking in human beings. In the Netherlands, therefore, criminal instruments have already been firmly deployed in recent years in the fight against trafficking in human beings through the detection, prosecution and trial of Article 273f of the Criminal Law. In this context, the Law on Prostitution and Combating Misdemeanours Sex Sector and the Law on Regulatory Sex Work deserve to be mentioned here. Previous speakers have also referred to this. These proposals and the initiative proposal now before us should be mutually reinforcing. Can the initiators and the minister deal with this in their first term? Self-criminalisation of the customer extends possibilities for the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office to investigate and prosecute sexual exploitation. The customer's responsibility is then used, both for criminal liability and for reporting wrongdoings. In this way, the police and the judiciary will be given more room for manoeuvre in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in dealing with abuses in the prostitution sector. Can the initiators comment on the impact of this law on the fight against trafficking in human beings in general? The main objective of this initiative proposal is to help reduce forced prostitution and, in particular, trafficking in human beings. The absence of a separate criminalisation for those who use the services of a prostitute, knowing or seriously suspected that the person is a victim of trafficking in human beings, is in practice perceived as a lack. Moreover, in the bill announced by the Cabinet, sexual crimes, in the new Article 242 Criminal Law, is also a serious suspicion as a requirement. This may give police and prosecutors the same opportunities for prosecution as this initiative proposal. Others have already referred to this as the proof. How do the initiators see that? And how does the Minister view this? The initiative law was drawn up in close consultation with the people in practice. Our group attaches particular importance to this issue in terms of feasibility and enforcement. These are police, prosecutors and helpers who are in practice engaged in the fight against trafficking in human beings. The National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings has repeatedly stated that this legislation is desirable. The national rapporteur points out that there are serious situations in practice. Think of customers who paid for sex with a prostitute, while it was or should have been for those customers clasp-and-ready that they shouldn't have done it, for example because the sight of the woman or man in question and the location should have prevented them from doing so. The National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings therefore considers this bill to be an important step in dealing with trafficking in human beings. Victims of trafficking in human beings, as the initiators point out, do not always report exploitation. Unfortunately, aid workers and enforcers too often lack such signals. This is not facilitated by the fact that a significant proportion of the victims are not originally from the Netherlands, but from a society in which the suspicion of the police and the judiciary is often high. According to the crime scene analysis Sexual exploitation 2012 55% of prostitutes would be victims of sexual exploitation. I have just heard one of the previous speakers say that, in my opinion, it was Mrs Bikker who said that there were 3,000 victims every year. 3,000! In our view, such figures justify the steps taken by the initiators of this bill. The bill also has a normative effect. The proposed provisions of the legislative action are logically interdependent. Practice shows that the absence of a separate criminalisation of those who use the services of a prostitute and know whether or not they should seriously suspect that the person is a victim of trafficking in human beings is perceived as a lack. As far as we are concerned, the abuses and trafficking in human beings in prostitution must be dealt with harder. We want measures against the exploitation of women, including in the permitted prostitution. A question was just asked by Mrs. Nanninga. We too have a question about this. In order to better address abuses and trafficking in human beings in prostitution, the CDA is to introduce a model based on equality, with the aim of protecting the prostitute. Can the initiators comment on the situation in which municipal permits are present, the eligible situations? Can they deal in particular with the feasibility and enforcement of the offence? Perhaps the Minister could also comment on this. With their legislative proposal, the initiators focus not on the prostitutes and the sex workers, but on customers of victims of trafficking in human beings. They do not therefore focus on combating prostitution itself, but on combating trafficking in human beings in prostitution. We see that self-criminalisation of the client broadens the possibilities for detecting and prosecuting sexual exploitation for the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The members of the CDA Group ask for further clarification of the proposed reinforced criminal law approach. It's a supplement, as far as we're concerned. The proposal by Mr Segers, Mr Kuik, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Kuik could contribute to raising awareness among prostitutes. This could also address the concerns about the reduced reporting capacity. However, the CDA Group considers it important to clarify the position and increased responsibility of the prostitute. How do the initiators see this? How does the prostitute know about this? Finally, my contribution shows that the CDA Group is looking forward to the answers, both from the initiators and from the minister, which the group needs in order to be able to finally assess the legislative initiative. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. Finally, Mr Raven has the floor on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u58	Okay, Mr. Chairman. There is no doubt that victims of trafficking in human beings must be freed from their plight. In this sense, the OSF Group interprets the proposers' own initiative proposal. It is commendable that you care about the fate of these victims. That deserves support and congratulations. However, there is doubt and the question remains as to whether this bill achieves its objective. These doubts also exist with experts. We took note of the 2016 expert meeting. In fact, the proposed approach divides the field into supporters and opponents. That probably explains the long lead time of this bill. It might also be interesting to look at the results of last week's elections to see if there is a similar basis for this bill in the House of Representatives. Anyway, we now have in the Upper House what has been approved by the Lower House. So that's what we're gonna judge. Mr. Chairman. Customers who purchase the product are punishable in advance if when producing this product something is not in the hook. That is how I translated it on behalf of the OSF Group. Customers who purchase the product are therefore punishable in advance if when producing that product something is not in the hook. This "something" has been formulated multi-interpretable in the bill through a number of selective criteria that even professional experts cannot give a clear opinion on, let alone customers who only decrease the product and do not have an integral picture of the logistics and organisation surrounding this questionable product. How do the initiators assess the tension between the opinions of experts on the one hand, who often find it difficult to draw the right conclusions with the criteria given, and on the other hand the customers, who have no idea at all? Mr. Chairman. Remarkable and unique is the approach in the law of criminalisation of customers. In other sectors, such as the clothing industry, where there is widespread suspicion that heavy criminal activities in the form of child labour are being used in mass production, a similar criminalisation of customers would result in criminalisation of half of our population. Everyone orders these days from Wish of Alibaba. There have been some doubts about that. You can already see from the price that these products are almost impossible to produce for one or two euros in a normal way. Mr. Chairman. Another example is the extraction of raw materials for the production of smartphones. Widely worn, the use of slave labour is suspected. Billions of customers of those smartphones should be put in prison, including probably the initiators of today's bill, if this bill is passed on to this sector. Indeed, smartphones require certain substances that are extracted by children in African countries and that are far underground. We've all been familiar with how that works there. That's not commendable, in fact, objectionable. If I go along with the line proposed in this bill, I will come to strange conclusions. This ridicule of the theme makes it clear that the proposed legal solution is probably not legally sustainable. How do the initiators view this view? Mr. Chairman. Child labour, slave labour and trafficking in human beings must be combated by all means. The initiative of the initiators to fight this fiercely is very much appreciated. The OSF would like to support the proposal, but it must be workable and sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u59	I have one question for my colleague from the OSF. If I follow the line of reasoning, does sex with minors have to be taken out of the Code of Criminal Law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u60	I didn't get it right. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u61	You compare this criminalisation with, for example, theft of substances for smartphones, but I make a comparison the other way: with the criminalisation of sex with minors. Does that, in your group's reasoning, have to come from the Code of Criminal Law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u62	No, definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u63	But then you're going to make a distinction between being serious, right? Then you can also reason the other way and say: we find this bill more similar to sex with minors, with regard to abuse of men and women, than with dress studios or something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u64	I told you, it's a ridicule of the example, so I'm not going to pull it one-on-one. But if you cross the line, in the sense that customers are punishable if they are not produced properly or debatable, then you have a theme. I am not saying that I want to use that line, but it is not being extended to all sectors. That is why I gave this example. Mr. Chairman. Is criminalisation the way to solve human trafficking in prostitution? It is not the first and most obvious option for the OSF Group. Characteristic of this shady service seems to be the dependent position in which the victim is situated. They are often foreigners, sometimes underage, with little life experience, who are often naive, who are not powerful, who have no papers or passports and who usually work under duress in shady locations. These are not public places where there is open contact between the prostitute and the customer. Often these people are under the supervision of criminals. In short, it is a helpless and hopeless situation. Society must take strong aid measures. The lack of communication with the outside world seems to be the overall key issue for the victims. Who can they contact? Who's gonna believe their story? Who takes them seriously? Who is it that gives them immediate comprehension? Where are they? And most importantly, how can they communicate? This last question is somewhat in line with the subject raised by the Labour Party's group, namely: is it not possible to produce some sort of label? In making such a mark, I would at least like to mention as one of the themes that all those people should have a smartphone at least. That sounds a bit like an easy solution, but sometimes you have to simplify it. The victims are in a position where they have no communication with the outside world. If we provide a legal provision stating that there should be means of communication for those involved, where the customer must check that that means of communication exists, then perhaps we could take a step forward. Then you can at least make sure, prior to the service, that it's all in the hook. At the stage of a label, of course, there are an x-number of other points, but these are issues that simply need to be resolved in practice and where the government might also be able to use a line. Mr. Chairman. Of course, this essay is a serious simplification of the problem. More measures are needed to improve the position of victims of trafficking in human beings. My question is: does the proposal offer this space? Finally, Mr President. This problem arises not only in the Netherlands, but all over the world. Is there an international body that could take responsibility so that victims of this serious crime can go there directly? So, for example, do we have a phone number, like 111, that can be called? And is it also known around the world that victims could call that number?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u65	Do I understand correctly that Mr Raven suggests that the article of the law might include that every prostitute would have access to a smartphone and that the customer would then check that the smartphone is actually present?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u66	And it's working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u67	Yeah, how do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u68	That needs to be worked out, I think. It is a simple suggestion, but you do give the possibility and guarantee that a person who is in trouble and cannot communicate with the outside world can at least communicate to the outside world. The criminals are cut off by that after all. Because what you often see is that such a smartphone is taken immediately, just like the passport. That makes the prostitutes even more dependent. But if the customer finds that there is such a smartphone, for example, you know that the victim could communicate to the outside world. It's a simple proposition. I'll put it here. There are dozens of other things and phone numbers you can call, like 111 or whatever number. I also think that we need to look in practice at what these victims are facing and how you can solve it most easily without giving the customer four or six years' imprisonment immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u69	Just for the record, the customer should ask the prostitute in question if she can get her number, so that he can send a message to see if the smartphone is working. But does Mr Raven agree with me that if the prostitute wants to make a report, she should do so directly to the customer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u70	It goes too far to work out this example. I think that if you want to think seriously about this, we can come to a solution. I don't have the solution here. All I'm saying is that the police say that they're shooting at the criminals with bows and that they should also involve all kinds of technical facilities in the fight against this type of crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u71	Finally. No, of course technical tools should also be used to detect abuse in prostitution. I have already drawn attention to this in my contribution. So in that respect, I totally agree. But I don't see the construction of that smartphone completely clear to me yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u72	If I listen to Mr Raven this way towards the end of his speech, he is very keen on this barrier model: to put down all kinds of barriers to prevent human trafficking and exploitation. He makes practical suggestions, which it is not up to me as a senator to weigh, but I share that commitment on that barrier model. Only, just from that idea of a barrier model and from the question of how to set as many thresholds as possible against trafficking in human beings, have the experts, the people who are daily working on this harsh reality, said: then we should also look at the customer and then this would be a good bill. That is what the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings said. I wonder how Mr Raven weighs that. In addition to his suggestion, which the Minister will certainly respond to, which could all be better done with that barrier model, this is an element that is still missing. How does Mr Raven react to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u73	I have indicated in my examples that at least the direction of thought is difficult in the legal sense, and that it is also difficult to maintain, workable, verifiable and enforceable. I think I made that clear in the first part of my speech. At the same time, with the initiators, I am looking for ways to tackle the problem at least. I'll give you some suggestions for that. Our line is not, as I said, an instance of criminalising our customers. That is not the first line we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u74	But not all customers are criminalised in this bill, only where there is serious suspicion or knowledge. At least in recent years I have never heard OSF argue in favour of abolishing the criminalisation of healing. There are also requirements for this: it must be clear that there is healing. So not every customer in a store is a criminal offence. No, not at all, but at the time of clear compliance, there is healing. So it's not such a crazy thought. This is a completely different offence, namely something that goes against human dignity. That also makes it more serious. Perhaps not for now, but when we are talking about what good ideas are, this seems to me to be one to take into account in the recitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u75	I have also said it in a asking atmosphere. I asked if the initiators could zoom in on these themes again, because this is quite difficult. At the same time, you must also take steps to force that solution. Then perhaps we should make some paths that are not yet common. I hope that the initiators can convince us of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u76	Thank you, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u77	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u78	Would any of the Members wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting until 6.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u79	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the own-initiative legislative proposal 34091, Proposal for a law of Mr Segers, Mr Kuik, Mr Kuik and Mr Van Nispen amending the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Law BES, introducing the criminalisation of the abuse of prostitutes who are victims of trafficking in human beings, the Act on the criminalisation of abuse of prostitutes who are victims of trafficking in human beings. At the end of this evening, I will submit to you whether the groups would prefer to vote on the legislative proposal tomorrow. You can think about that and I would be happy to hear how you view it at the end of the debate. Mr Segers, Mrs Kuik, Mrs Kuik and Mr van Nispen, which of you can I give the floor first? I see that will be Mr Segers. I call Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you for your hospitality. It is never a punishment to sit in the First Chamber and never a punishment to hear a debate in the First Chamber. It is certainly very special to be in this Chamber and to be able to have this debate. Thank you also to all spokesmen for their contributions in the first term. We hope to do justice to all your questions and comments. Where we do not, we would like to hear from you, either in an interruption or in the second term. Then you'll have to put us right. Mr. Chairman. I will talk in general about the cause and purpose of the legislative proposal. Next, Mr Kuik will discuss the necessity and urgency of this bill and the extent to which it relates to other legislative proposals, for example, specifically the Sex Work Regulation Act. Then Mr Van Nispen will talk about the detection, the willingness to report and the effectiveness. Many questions have been asked about this. Finally, Mr Kuik will discuss the choice of the set-up and debt variant. A lot of questions have been asked about this too. Furthermore, a lot of questions have been asked about the foreseeability, because that was a very jumping point in the first term. Mr. Chairman. It is with great pleasure that I stand here. I stand here with a great deal of conviction with my colleagues Kuik, Van Nispen and Kuik. It's really nice to do this together. Earlier, I tabled this bill, many of you referred to it and defended it with colleagues Volp from the PvdA Group and Kooiman from the then SP Group. I would like to thank them from this place for this cooperation. It is good to see that coming from different political traditions you can work together on such an important point, come together and come up with a proposal. Yes, we sometimes have different views, but on this point, the issue of the initiative proposal, we come together. This concerns the fight against trafficking in human beings and the fight against coercion and exploitation of women and men in prostitution. We are all very close to that. That is also evident from your contributions. These were sometimes very striking and painful examples. I am thinking, for example, of Mr Dittrich, who, from his own legal practice, told us about a horrible situation, a story that really went through marrow and bone. Where it comes close and where we see where it goes wrong, it cuts us all through the soul. That was also to be heard in the contribution of the honourable Member, Mrs Bikker. I would like to refer to her as being very distant, because that also sounded very personal. This applies to myself for a meeting with Fier Friesland's aid workers. They brought me into contact with a victim group of African victims of forced prostitution and trafficking in human beings. There you see something about modern slavery and that is very painful, especially because it takes place in our country. Trafficking in human beings means that people are exploited or put to work under inhumane conditions. Sometimes people are even chained up; we just heard about North Holland. This affects human dignity, and Mr Rietkerk of the CDA Group quite rightly said so. Human dignity is actually at stake here. This is a serious violation of human rights and a serious form of crime. The estimate of the size of CoMensha is that there are about 5,000 to 7,500 victims per year. Between 2015 and 2019, a period of five years, they registered 5,000 potential victims. So we're dealing with huge numbers. These are the official counts, the registrations, but the estimate is that there are 5,000 to 7,500 people per year. 62% of them are victims of sexual exploitation. Several studies show that the prostitution sector is vulnerable to abuses. Several spokesmen have also addressed this in their contributions. To prevent coercion and exploitation in prostitution, the Netherlands has the so-called barrier model. Mrs. Nanninga mentioned that. It creates as many dams and barriers as possible, so as many restrictions as possible, to stop this evil. Everyone has a responsibility: operators, municipalities, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, specialised judges and aid workers. Everyone around that has a responsibility. But there's one gap in this model. That's the customer's responsibility. In the barrier approach, in addressing the chain of those responsible, there is one missing link. That's the client. We want to change that with this bill. In this context, I would like to reply to Mr Dittrich, who asked very explicitly whether this is an adaptation to the Swedish model. Others, Mrs De Boer, I also thought, referred to this. In all clarity, the answer is: no, it is not. This is a refinement of the Dutch barrier model and not an adaptation to another model. We really have a different approach. In the Dutch approach we choose to insert this missing link, namely responsibility for a customer. If I may say something about this in person, I would not want a government that would impose and enforce my personal sexual morality with public funds. I wouldn't want that. In which we, as initiators, have found each other and in which we could find each other, we are not in a specific private morality, but in dealing with trafficking in human beings and the fight against coercion and exploitation. That is the purpose of this bill. I wouldn't want a model discussion at all, but I certainly wouldn't want a model that would lead to more victims. I believe that Mrs De Boer pointed out that the Swedish model could lead to more victims. It's not for nothing that an investigation is being conducted now. It looks at the effectiveness in different European countries with a similar context, but with a different approach. What is the most effective approach? I myself would be very pragmatic in that. We must choose the approach that is most effective and leads to the least number of victims. It is not, therefore, the enforcement of a private morality or of a sexual morality, but the fight against trafficking in human beings. What do we suggest? In order to give a place to the customer's responsibility in the fight against trafficking in human beings, we introduce Article 273g with our legislative proposal. This provides for the explicit criminalisation of the customer who knows that is the set-up variant or has a serious reason to suspect that "that's the type of debt involved "that's a prostitute victim of trafficking in human beings'. This criminalisation is therefore intended for cases where the customer ignores obvious signs of victimisation of trafficking in human beings. This strengthened variant of debt ensures that criminal liability of the customer can only be seen in clear signs of victimisation of trafficking in human beings. Mr Kuik will discuss this further in a moment. Many questions have been asked and she will answer them. This is also about the difference between the authorised part and the unauthorized part of the sector. In short, the purpose of this criminalisation is that the customer is aware of his own responsibility in combating trafficking in human beings, and that the customer refrains from buying sex if he knows that there is a victimisation of trafficking in human beings or that it could not be otherwise than that he was aware of it, and that the customer reports possible abuses. The latter is very important, because we want human trafficking to come to light, to be prosecuted and to be able to help victims. Mr. Chairman. There is also broad support outside the Chamber for the fight against trafficking in human beings and for this bill. It is an elaboration of a European directive. Our initiative can be seen as a result of that 2011 directive. For example, Article 18 of this Directive on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims of such trafficking states that "Member States should consider measures to criminalise the use of services in the knowledge that the person concerned is a victim of trafficking in human beings." That is a quote from the directive. That is exactly what we intend to do with this bill. In response to that directive, the National Rapporteur also recommended that this offence be carried out. It is a consequence of that directive. With regard to the implementation of that directive, the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings wrote at the time "We are talking about 2011' in her opinion to the Minister of Security and Justice: "However, it is a point of interest that a customer of a registered sex worker, knowing that he is a victim of trafficking in human beings, is not currently a criminal offence. I believe that such a criminal offence belongs to the Criminal Code as a criminal offence." Later, the then National Rapporteur, Mrs Dettmeijer, reiterated her plea in the ninth report on trafficking in human beings: "The fight against trafficking in human beings in the sex industry will not only benefit from supply-side measures. It is equally important that demand-side awareness is growing that the prostitution sector is vulnerable to abuses. The vulnerability of the industry means that there is a greater responsibility for the users of the services in that sector. It is therefore good if prostitutes' customers become more involved in the alerting of trafficking in human beings and pass on these signals. There are cases where a customer uses the services of a victim of trafficking in human beings when he knew or might have known it was a victim. A separate offence is required for the customer who uses the sexual services of a prostitute when he knows or reasonably suspects that he or she has been forced or moved to do so and is therefore a victim of trafficking in human beings." So much for the national rapporteur's quote in the ninth report. We therefore follow the recommendations of the former National Rapporteur, but also the current National Rapporteur, Mr Bolhaar, supports this proposal. It is these recommendations that have led to this initiative legislative proposal. We also had talks with those involved in the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and aid workers' organisations. All these discussions have strengthened the initiators in the belief that this bill is desirable and has added value. It was discussions with these representatives from the practice that encouraged us to table this bill. It is precisely the people who are at the forefront of the fight against trafficking in human beings, coercion and exploitation that have encouraged us to table this bill. They also support this bill. They have indicated that this bill helps us, or them, in their fight against coercion and exploitation. Self-criminalisation of the customer extends the possibilities for police and the Public Prosecutor's Office to investigate and prosecute sexual exploitation. Mr Michiel van Nispen will be addressing questions relating to detection and reporting. By the way, we have also spoken to sex workers individually. That was a question from Mrs De Boer. I myself made it clear in those conversations that it was not about their position, but about victims. It is not a question of people exercising their profession voluntarily and freely, but of protecting the victims. Quite specifically, it's about criminalising the customers. So it doesn't affect their position. Questions have also been asked about the situation in Finland, including by Mrs Bezaan of the PVV, if I recall correctly. He says, "That's where the criminalization of the client would have turned out negative." I would like to emphasise that the situation in Finland is not one-on-one comparable to the situation in the Netherlands. Prostitution is legal in Finland, but soliciting in a public space and organised prostitution are not legal. So that's really different from our country. In the Netherlands, the ban on brothel was lifted in 2002. The criminalisation in Finland took place in a different approach to prostitution. But it is also good to emphasise in this context that research is ongoing into different practices, different approaches, and their effectiveness. As far as we are concerned, it is also highly advisable to look at the outcome and also to see whether our approach needs to be adjusted. Then we can also measure and compare the different countries, the different contexts and the different effectivenesss and make choices on that basis. So I would also like to stress that this bill is not a system change or introduces a new model, but really refines and improves the existing model. With this bill, we make the customer's responsibility part of the Dutch barrier model in the fight against trafficking in human beings. So much for my contribution, Mr. Chairman. I would like to give the floor to Mr Anne Kuik, who will speak about the need and the urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u81	Thank you, Mr Segers. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Kuik, but not after I first gave the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of GroenLinks, for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mr Segers was unexpectedly quick to finish. I have a question, but I don't know if anyone's gonna answer it. Well, in that case, you're gonna have to take your turn. You mentioned the European Convention, which obliges us to introduce this offence. The Convention is not specifically aimed at victims behind the prostitution industry, but it talks more broadly about penalising people who use services provided by victims of trafficking in human beings, to put it that way. I asked why only the prostitution sector was chosen. I understand from the cans exchanged that Mr. Van Nispen will answer that question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u83	I can go into that, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u84	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u85	This is indeed specific to the prostitution sector. There is other legislation that sees fair trade, for example in the chain approach. The point is that products do not use, for example, child labour or other forms of modern slavery. So there is another legislation that has the same purpose in a different context and situation. When the National Rapporteur advised on the implementation of this European directive, she looked very specifically at the prostitution sector and talked about it. She said that this is a sector of her own that is more susceptible to trafficking in human beings and that has its own context; the largest number of victims of trafficking in human beings is there. It is therefore a very specific sector, which also deserves its own approach. In her recommendation and advice on the implementation of the directive, she specifically mentioned legislation that looks at the position of customers. The proposal at the time, which we later amended, was still about criminalising customers who could reasonably have a suspicion, as it was then called. But that legislation sees the position of the customers. The National Rapporteur recommended that legislation be drawn up for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u86	That is an explanation, but it does not really answer the question of why, also because the conclusion must be that we are still not fully complying with European legislation, not even with the introduction of this bill. He is asking for a criminal offence. There is no such criminalisation in the chain approach. The question remains open to me. I also think that is an important question, precisely because part of our hesitation is that prostitution and trafficking in human beings are often thrown into one pile. If you make a criminal offence that you say is about trafficking in human beings, but which is aimed only at the prostitution sector, the risk of that mixture is greater. As far as I am concerned, it would be much clearer if, like 273f, which is about the criminalisation of human trafficking itself, you would opt for a general criminalisation of those who abuse it. I think it's a missed chance that this wasn't designed that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u87	I understand the question, because it is true that trafficking in human beings is much wider than prostitution alone. However, most of the victims are in the prostitution sector. According to the National Rapporteur, this is 62%. But there is also exploitation and coercion in other sectors. At the same time, the National Rapporteur says that this requires a specific approach and legislation, because it is different in the context and in the nature of the sector. The position of the customer is also different. The customer comes literally and figuratively very close and also sees more than in the example of the asparagus "I believe that you referred to this as "asparagus." A customer who buys asparagus from an entrepreneur who uses people who are forced to work or work there under appalling conditions does not have direct contact with the exploited employee. Prostitution does. In the context, it's already different. We also have other forms of legislation, for example legislation against healing, which places a responsibility on a customer. But it is about a product and its own context in which a customer also has a responsibility. I say it very prosaic for a moment, but we can have an asparagus or a cell phone. That is why we do not say 'we are done with this and that is why the implementation of this directive is ready' or 'we are only restricting the fight against trafficking in human beings to prostitution'. No, trafficking in human beings must be combated across the board. This should sometimes only be done with specific legislation, because the context is very specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u88	Mrs. De Boer, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u89	Finally. I don't think we'll agree on this. I agree with you that the number of cases involved is likely to be much lower in other sectors. But that does not prevent me from saying that it would be a good thing if we were to have our criminal law legislation, because it is about criminalisation that is really a big deal about trafficking in human beings and not just about prostitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u90	Finally, let me stress that, as far as I am concerned, this is not the end either, that this is not exclusive and that it is not over with a directive that says 'look at the responsibility of the customer'. This indeed deserves a broader approach. But since it deserves a broader approach, you cannot say that there would be no specific space for this bill. I think every situation requires customization. This is custom-made when it comes to prostitution. Other contexts and sectors also require customisation. Let that be an incentive for the legislator to consider whether specific legislation is needed in other sectors as well. But that did not prevent us from saying: in this case, in this sector, let us do what we can to prevent coercion and exploitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u91	Thank you, Mr Segers. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, it is extraordinary to be standing here with my colleagues to deal with this initiative law. Trafficking in human beings has a huge impact on lives. I think each of you will agree to that. From conversations I have had with victims of trafficking in human beings, the impotence and insecurity have emerged. It concerns young women who crying to not want prostitution and then at most were comforted, after which the customers came to get what they had paid for. It's not easy to do justice to the victims of a crime in the street like trafficking in human beings. We would like to contribute to this by means of this own-initiative proposal. We must be modest, because this does not, of course, solve the problem of trafficking in human beings. But it's a step in better combat. The bill fits into a broader line of human trafficking policy aimed not only at protecting vulnerable people who have to sell forced sex, but also at those who abuse people. In dealing with trafficking in human beings, a great deal of attention is rightly paid to perpetrators and their victims. A group that remains largely out of sight are the customers of victims of trafficking in human beings, while they are a crucial part of maintaining trafficking in human beings. After all, no demand, no supply. It has already been clearly stated here: the customer is not a neutral third party, but also has a responsibility. In addition, we can see that the unregulated sector, the less visible sector, is thinking of prostitution in hotels, on holiday parks and at home. That's also apparent from the latest Victim Monitor. We also see this growing market of abuse on the Internet. Think of child pornography growing in this corona age. I would therefore reply to the question as to whether the proposal is still relevant: yes, more than ever. The less visible sectors are also more directly susceptible to exploitation. In order to improve the fight against trafficking in human beings, this initiative law is desirable. This is also what the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings has been saying for some time. This bill should provide more tools to allow prosecution in cases where the customer has not taken his or her responsibility. I'll go into the part about why this bill is ahead and not incorporated into the Wrs bill. Several groups have asked questions about the relationship between these two, and that is understandable. Let me start, for the context, with a piece of history on this. I start in November 2009, when the Wrp bill was filed, to protect people in vulnerable situations. That was 2009. We are now in 2021, twelve years further, and finally a few months ago the bill was sent to the House of Representatives by the Demissionary Secretary of State. The question is whether and when the Law regulates sex work is dealt with in the Lower House. That's actually gotten more insecure. It now has a controversial status. But also a new cabinet may have something to say about that. Realistically, it is guessing in what form the bill will end up with you after treatment in the Lower House. I understand that there are questions about the relationship between the two legislative proposals; I said that. Both legislative proposals are also about criminalising the customer. I'll deal with that. Nevertheless, I would ask the groups to assess the legislative proposal on their own merits. It is premature to link both legislative proposals, as the progress of the Wrs is currently uncertain. And now we have the opportunity to address an urgent issue. Following these comments in advance, I will deal with the questions on these two legislative proposals. The Wrs, who is now in the Lower House controversially, introduces a national licensing system for prostitutes. A system is set up to allow a customer to check the consent of the prostitute. A customer who performs sexual acts with a prostitute who works independently without a licence or is employed by an operator not authorised for a prostitution business shall be punishable. This therefore explicitly concerns the criminality resulting from the use of services by a prostitute without a licence. This is considered an infringement of Article 40 of the Wrs. Specifically to Mr Meijer of the VVD, I would like to answer the following about the difference. He went into the Wrs and indicated that prostitution is a legal profession. This is about people who do not want to do this, but are exploited. What is before us today is specifically aimed at the clients of the prostitutes who are victims of trafficking in human beings. If a customer knows whether he should seriously suspect that the prostitute he is visiting is a victim of trafficking in human beings, he is punishable. This is not a violation, it is a crime laid down in Article 273g. Although in both cases they are criminal offences, they vary according to nature and seriousness. This is also in line with the Minister's answers to the question of how the two legislative proposals relate to each other. Once both legislative proposals have become law, the Wrs will make it possible to take criminal action against prostitution activities carried out without authorisation. But if a client takes advantage of a prostitute who is a victim of trafficking in human beings, the bill we are debating today can also prosecute the client. Of course, it is important to ensure that both legislative proposals are properly aligned when the Wrs bill comes before both chambers. We must then allow this discussion to take place in the course of the debate on the Wrs. This should not lead to a delay in this initiative proposal. Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on a question from Mrs De Boer from the Green Left Group. She asked how the initiative proposal relates to the criminalisation of other cases such as rape and to which situations that are not punishable under the current law should be considered. However, I would like to refer here to the quickscan of the relationship with existing criminal offences that were committed in 2014. This quickscan by Mr Lindenberg focuses on the criminal responsibilities of the prostitute in trafficking in human beings and minors. I'll keep that in mind. This concerns a request from the PvdA and the VVD. The quickscan states, among other things, that there is no cover in many cases. Only in the more obvious forms of exploitation does the provision of the Code of Criminal Law provide sufficient cover to enable it to conclude that the victim of exploitation can be protected. In less obvious cases of exploitation, where there was either no science or no concrete benefit was taken, the current articles do not provide sufficient coverage. In the explanatory memorandum to the initiative proposal, the initiators also refer to this. Then I come to a question from Mrs Baay-Timmermans of 50PLUS. She asks how this bill relates to the proposed bill on sexual offences. Why didn't we choose a separate criminalization of the debt variant, with an article of our own and a maximum sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u93	Thanks for the answer. I'd like to get it exactly. Mrs Kuik says that there is no 'coverage', that is what I would call the current penal provisions if there is no science. The question concerns cases where there is no science and which are now covered by the proposed article. Are we just talking about the debt variant? Isn't it true that the science is there in the design variant?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u94	The quickscan points out that in the case of rape or sexual assault, issues relating to voluntary and involuntary behaviour play a role. Authors of the quickscan indicate that in the prostitution sphere, acts are carried out much more often than in normal sexual traffic which, in a sense, occur involuntarily, even though no means of pressure are used. The involuntaryness required in the case of rape or sexual assault is more severe than the involuntaryness under Article 273f. This article is about compulsion in the broad sense. Article 273f therefore involves coercion, deception or abuse of a preponderance resulting from factual circumstances and abuse of a vulnerable position. In the case of rape or sexual assault, for example, there is no question of coercion in itself in the case of abuse of dominance. So important to stress is that rape or sexual assault can only occur when the involuntary nature is met, as defined in those articles. If that had been different, you would see much more often that clients of prostitutes who are victims of trafficking in human beings are charged with rape. That is not the case. This now shows that our own-initiative proposal has added value to existing legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u95	I would have asked a question about this current prosecution, but I think I will. It's a little vague for me. From previous conversations with others I have the idea that the question is also: what exactly is that difference? If science is an important criterion, what does it mean that you can't say that there was rape, with other facts such as coercion, but you can say about the design of the article you proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u96	What has actually been said in the front, even in your own term: this is not black and white. It's also a matter of the judge having to assume the circumstances that someone has to deal with. That was also very clear in that quickscan. Now I can't just reproduce that quickscan with all the exact examples. I would like to come back to that in the second term, but in that quickscan, PvdA and VVD said exactly this point that you are saying: go find out. Researchers come to the conclusion that what lies ahead is not enough to protect victims sufficiently and to condemn customers who have a responsibility and know or should have known that there is coercion. In the quickscan, researchers have said: it is not sufficiently regulated now. We'll take care of that. Mr Kuik will come back to the question of intent and guilt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u97	Taking up what you just said, also for my imagery: can it be that a paying customer, who is aware that there is involuntaryness, cannot be prosecuted for rape because he pays?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u98	In the quickscan it appears that it is very difficult, based on the article on rape, to catch a customer on the part that we are now raising here, namely that a customer pays and knows that someone is forced there. In the legislation and in the case law you can see that it is not really a question of getting customers caught on it. So there is actually the gap, which we want to overcome with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u99	So, if I may sum it up, the bottom line is that the fact that someone is basically offering their sexual services, apart from their voluntary nature, is an obstacle. If you absolutely realize it's not voluntary, then you can still be prosecuted for the crime of rape?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u100	Maybe I will repeat that sentence again, because of course I have to do it exactly. It is important to stress that rape and sexual assault can only occur if involuntary treatment, as mentioned in those articles, is met. So that's harder in this case, if you pay in the prostitution sector. There we now see a gap, which we want to fill with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u101	Mrs Baay, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u102	Then may I conclude that indeed the fact that you pay is an obstacle to the prosecution of rape?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u103	I'm afraid to say that. I would like to come back to that, for the sake of clarity, in the second term. It's kind of close. Finally, I would like to comment on the question raised by Mrs Baay-Timmermans: why was not a separate criminalisation of the debt variant with its own legal qualification and maximum penalty? In this context, she mentioned the example of the crimes of intent rape and criminal rape in the vice bill that has recently been consulted. I would like to point out that there are examples in the Penal Code in which the same qualification and the same penalty limit apply to the design and the debt variant. I refer, for example, to human trafficking. Article 197a refers to human trafficking with a maximum prison sentence of six years, both when the perpetrator knows the design variant, and when he has serious reasons to suspect, the debt variant. The access or transit of the smuggled person would then be contrary to the law. In the eyes of the initiators, it is desirable that the proposed criminalisation should not differentiate between a set-up and a debt variant as regards the legal qualification and the penalty ceiling. For this reason, it argues that the serious debt variant is very close to the design variant. In both cases, criminal liability leads to obvious signs of victimisation of trafficking in human beings. It deliberately or completely indifferently ignores, or ignores the obvious signals, serious guilt. The accusation that the perpetrator can be intentionally blamed is similar in such a way that the same qualification and the same maximum penalty should apply. This is, of course, without prejudice to the fact that it is ultimately up to a court to impose appropriate penalties in the specific case, taking into account all circumstances, including whether there is intent or guilt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u104	You say that it is more common, as I have also mentioned in my own contribution, that in one sentence both the design and the more negligent variant are combined. However, I have also asked in my contribution to give a more substantive explanation of why it is specifically chosen to include these two variants in a single description of the crime. You yourself mention an example where in the summary there is a single description of the crime, but, for example, in the case of manslaughter or death by fault, there is a very sharp distinction between intent and negligence. I think that with someone with such obvious indications that one should really speak of intent is something else than one could reasonably have suspected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u105	Yeah, there could be a difference. But we do not have the debt variant here, but the serious debt variant, which is already much closer to that. We can see that in practice this is not as far apart from the normal type of debt. That is why we have said that we consider it desirable to put it on the same footing. And then it is up to the judge to see if he will impose an appropriate punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u106	But then, in fact, we lay down the responsibility of the judiciary, which, in general, states that parliamentary history gives clues when a distinction is to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u107	Yeah, a fair point. The last part of the issue is the debt and design variant. I now give the floor, Mr President... no, Mr President, I give the floor to you. And Mr Van Nispen would like to have the floor after me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u108	I'll be happy to give it to him. Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. I call Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is also an honour for me to be present in your First Chamber today, with this rather special composition of initiators and of course our expert policy staff, whom we are of course grateful for. I would like to thank the members of the First Chamber for their critical questions, but also for their constructive attitude. We all feel connected in the fight against trafficking in human beings. I'm sure your contributions showed that. As we all know, prostitution hides a terrible world of trafficking and exploitation. We hope to convince Members today that tackling and preventing trafficking in human beings is not just a matter of police, justice, regulators and municipalities, but also of the role of prostitutes. I say 'also', because the clients of forced prostitutes, on the one hand, maintain the demand for forced prostitution. On the other hand, they are precisely the people who can signal the victims and help to free them from their position. I would like to comment on the latter. Your Chamber has asked several questions about the willingness to report. We understand these questions very well. This raises the concern that the increase in reports of exploitation situations will not be achieved in practice, or could even decrease. That's because the prostitute who takes the services from the victim could incriminate himself if he mentions the exploitation situation. Mr Meijer of the VVD, Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks and also Mr Dittrich of D66 pointed this out. We do not want this law to condemn as many prostitutes as possible. That is not the purpose in itself of this law. As has already been said by my predecessors, we are mainly concerned with the awareness of prostitutes of signs of exploitation and the withdrawal of services. Mrs. Nanninga mentioned this. We hope that they will then report the exploitation situation to the authorities. The criminalisation and possible conviction is then necessary as a stick behind the door. Because of this new standard, prostitutes will more often recognise and report exploitation. Mrs Baay-Timmerman of 50PLUS asked about it and also Mr Rietkerk of the CDA. As far as we are concerned, it must lead to prevention through awareness. This will hopefully lead to more reports in practice. This is based, among other things, on the information campaign that Meld Crime Anonymous conducted in 2016. This showed an increase in the number of reports of exploitation over the course of the campaign. A study by the GGD Amsterdam in 2014 showed that as many as 70% of customers feel responsible and 40% are willing to report exploitation. In our view, these are important data, which are supportive and could argue in favour of this law. We believe that it would be useful to make the introduction of this law accompanied by an information campaign to make that standard clear and to approach the customer as an ally in the fight against exploitation and trafficking in human beings. This is in response to questions from Mrs De Boer, Mr Janssen, Mrs Baay-Timmerman and Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u110	So how's it going in practice? I imagine a man wants to engage in sexual services with a sex worker. He'll have to pay before he joins the prostitute. So he's already paid. In your view, then, he should think at that point: I am taking a step back, because there may be trafficking in human beings and I am going to report it. Do you think that's real in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u111	Thank you for this question. I think the circumstances may vary on a case-by-case basis. I think it might have been paid for. Maybe it doesn't have to be in all cases. There may be signs. Mrs Kuik will also return to signals and circumstances. Think, for example, of asking for a very low amount of money, or of the location where the sexual service will take place. These are signals that can lead to the criterion of science or a serious suspicion of victimisation or exploitation. So even before payment has been made, that can be the case. Mr Dittrich outlined the situation in which payments had already been made. I myself would think that even in those cases not taking the service should go above the interests of the prostitute's wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u112	I can imagine you saying that. I agree with you. It's the practice that matters to me. I imagine the man who paid at that moment thinks: I want value for my money. Maybe he'd report something after that. But then comes the point on which we differ. Is he gonna incriminate himself if he does?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u113	Situations may differ. In the event that payment has already been made and the self-interest at that time goes beyond moral awareness, I understand that question very well, because that will indeed be the case under circumstances. Now the whole standard is missing and there is no criminalisation. This may indeed lead to the situation that you described in your introductory words, which struck me very much, from that horrible cellar where a young woman was chained up. In that situation, there is no responsibility whatsoever for anyone. So that standard is missing now. In case the importance of the wallet in the situation you outline would go ahead unexpectedly, there are several possibilities. We point, among other things, to the possibility of Meld Crime Anonymous, which I will come back to in a moment. This is an opportunity to anonymously report an exploitation situation for someone who subsequently repents and thinks: I have cooperated in this, but I am going to mention this exploitation situation. That possibility is still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u114	Mr Dittrich, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u115	My last question, about Crime Crime Anonymous. If that happens anonymously and the D.A. would think, "I'm gonna make this a criminal case, there's an anonymous report." That can't count in a trial for the evidence, or at least as strong evidence. How does that bring you closer to a conviction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u116	Minister Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u117	That too is a fair question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u118	Not a minister, I believe, but the level of a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u119	Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u120	To this would be our answer that a report to Meld Crime Anonymous does not have the status of a full testimony that can be requested. That's true, but it might be a clue to detectives or to investigate further. It could be a starting point. But I would like to stress once again that in this situation... we will certainly recognise that this law is a step in the right direction, not the solution to everything. We cannot, indeed, say that a report to Meld Crime Anonymous will certainly lead to an investigation and a prosecution, but we must put that against the current situation, in which the whole standard is actually lacking. As far as we're concerned, that's a gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u121	I have a follow-up question about the readiness to report. Of course, there are several prostitutes. One goes to a visible, legalized brothel and hopefully will also have a slightly higher moral standard. If he comes across anything that's not right, he'll report it. But we're talking about the prostitutes who go to gritty campsites, possibly passed through different phone numbers, and who already feel to their water that it's not entirely pure coffee. Is that target group ready for reporting, even at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u122	I believe that we must recognise that the possible willingness to report to the group that is already using, probably, the services of a victim of exploitation is factually absent. They could therefore be punishable under the terms of the bill as we propose to you today. They're hitting that kind of signal right now in the wind. That willingness to report is actually absent why would anyone else use those services? But that will also be the case in the future. I would like to point out to those Members who, while rightly expressing the fear that there might be a reduction in the willingness to report, that the willingness to report, as Mr Recourt has already said, is not high at the moment. So we have to set one situation against the other. We hope, however, that by setting this standard, which calls on the responsibility of the customer, there will certainly also be customers who will refrain from taking down the services, thus preventing actual exploitation and further trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u123	And hopefully they'll emigrate to legalized prostitution. I have a follow-up question. Let us assume that Mr Dittrich's example occurs and that a woman is chained up. How awful is that? The customer who hates that too, is he not at risk of being prosecuted for a commune crime even now, under current legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u124	I think that touches on the questions that Mrs Kuik has just answered. For the sake of clarity, I would like to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u125	I should like to draw your attention to the example given by Mr Dittrich. I had the impression that it was a bit of a coincidence, but maybe I don't understand it. The prostitute does not incriminate himself because he, although anonymous, makes a report for which he cannot be prosecuted. However, this may reveal a situation or a circumstance which can prevent the following situations. Well, that's a lead. Am I to understand that this is the explanation? I understand very well that someone who anonymously makes a report is actually anonymous, what is said every time, is unable to incriminate himself, because it is no longer possible to find out who made the report. However, it may be the starting point to prevent future situations, because otherwise something remains below the radar which may be brought to light by someone who comes to mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u126	Yes, the purpose of this law is indeed not to prosecute as many prostitutes as possible and ultimately punish them. Situations will come to light, and that can certainly be the subject of discussion. That's what this criminality is for. But it is true that this is a matter of "fine" and that can also be the result of a report to the Report of the Crime Anonymous that the exploitation situation is being traced and that the trafficking in human beings that lies behind it is ultimately being tackled. In fact, I meant to say that a report to Meld Crime Anonymous could be a point of reference for further investigation in this direction, to finally tackle the human traffickers, who are already punishable by the current Article 273f, and to see if they can be further investigated, precisely in order to free the victims from that position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u127	Then it goes beyond just the individual case of the single prostitute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u128	Exactly. The aim is indeed to ultimately protect the victims and prevent trafficking in human beings and exploitation. We believe that the criminalisation we are proposing is necessary as a stick behind the door, if someone clearly knows about the situation, or has serious reasons to suspect that situation, and nevertheless uses that service. But the goal must ultimately be to tackle trafficking in human beings. That's what connects us here today in this fight. I would also like to point out that the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings has informed us that this will lead to an increase in the number of reports. The Council of State also stated in its opinion that this law would lead to greater alertness among prostitutes. Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union rightly said that this bill was the right way to implement and enforce the law and that this is precisely why the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings and the Public Prosecutor's Office has shown itself to be in favour of this law. Mr Rietkerk of the CDA also pointed this out. I do believe that these are justified observations. Apart from the supposed increase in the number of reports due to the deterrent effect and increasing awareness, I can say a little more about this. I do so in response to the understandable questions put by your Chamber today, such as Mr Dittrich of D66, who, in the written round, has already asked questions about the fact that prostitutes would incriminate themselves when they later report exploitation. After all, no one is obliged to cooperate in his own conviction. That is why we stress the possibility of reporting anonymous reports of exploitation situations via Report Crime. This could lead to an investigation by the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which could eventually lead to the end of that exploitation situation. In the end, it is up to these organisations to get the burden of proof. For example, this legislative amendment can indeed contribute to reducing trafficking in human beings. That is the ultimate purpose of this law. This is also in response to Mrs Bezaan's concerns about enforcement. In addition, we would point out that the prosecutor's office could take into account what we call "the regrets." This may lead prostitutes who subsequently regret taking services from victims of trafficking in human beings to report an exploitation situation. This can also partially mitigate a possible negative impact, as evidenced by the letter from the Minister of Justice and Security in response to the previous written questions on this subject. It might be just that extra push to help free the victim from an exploitation situation. Finally, on this point, it is important to realise that not only customers can make reports of exploitation. We are not only dependent on customers at the moment for these reports, because other witnesses can also report to the authorities, as we have already pointed out in writing. I think I have answered the questions about the willingness to report. Then I come to the questions raised by some Members, such as Mr Dittrich, Mrs Bezaan and Mrs De Boer, about the detection capacity and the possible deficits that would be present today. Is the shortage of detectives likely to hinder the success of this initiative? This is how I summarize these questions. I understand that question. In fact, it is no secret that I have asked this question, with a different hat on it, to the Minister myself. We, the initiators, share those concerns about police capacity and the focus on dealing with trafficking in human beings and exploitation. We would point out, however, that steps have been taken recently, partly because of questions and calls from both Chambers. I would also like to refer to the amendment of the Christian Union and the Labour Party in the House of Representatives in the budgetary procedure, which is quite recent. In the end, the question remains whether all this is enough, but it is not the case that this bill stands or falls. Trafficking in human beings is and will remain a so-called haalfelt. One will eventually have to look for it and find it to see it. It's not gonna be brought on its own. That is already the case and will unfortunately be the case in the future. Furthermore, it is not an end in itself to punish as many victims of exploitation as possible. We are concerned with setting that clear standard. Now that customer has no responsibility whatsoever, even if there is evident exploitation. We think that is inhumane. We wanted to fill that gap, because we want the customer as an ally in this fight against trafficking in human beings. However, we share the fact that there is still work to be done in terms of detection capacity. Hopefully the Minister will be able to deal with the question of capacity in the near future. I hope that we have been able to convince you, Members, that a negative effect on reporting will not be present and will even have a positive effect. We also hope and expect that the review of this law will show this in three years' time. Questions have also been asked about this. The evaluation in three years' time will be able to prove that. Mr Recourt said that miracles should not be expected from this offence, but that the provision is proportionate because the customer has a responsibility. We agree with that. Mr Janssen and Mrs Nanninga have indicated that this law may not solve all the problems. I agree with them, but that is not what we are saying either. However, we have the conviction, from other political positions and beliefs, as Mrs Bikker also pointed out, that this law improves the current situation and contributes to the fight against trafficking in human beings and exploitation. Then I am going to ask you, Mr President, to give the floor to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u129	I will do so in a moment, but I shall first give the floor to Mr Raven on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u130	Thank you for your answer. I have a question on the basis of the answer. We now have a criminal offence, which means that people could indeed be reluctant to report. In conjunction with that, have you ever thought about a reward for regrets?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u131	I understand that question. In any case, a reward or similar arrangement is not part of this bill. We think it is wise to set that clear standard and to address that currently lacking responsibility, the gap we are reporting, by saying: the customer is also an important link. At the moment it is actually a missing link! But that customer could become an important ally in the fight against exploitation and trafficking in human beings. So a reward is not part of this bill. In my contribution, I did mention the regret mechanism, but that was about the people who came to their senses afterwards and realized that they have contributed to maintaining an exploitation situation. The D.A. could then possibly be inclined to demand a lower sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u132	Do you see anything in a reward? Have you considered that in advance, or do you say "we did not actually involve ourselves in the legislative proposal"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u133	At least that is not part of this bill. I'm telling you honestly, I didn't consider that myself. Nor do I recall that we, as initiators, had this on the table together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u134	Thank you. Then I shall give the floor to Mrs Kuiik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u135	Mr. Chairman. From the party of democracy, we're going to the party of defending your own bill. The contrast sometimes seems big, but I always like to stand here. A number of very serious questions have been asked and I will do my best to answer them as carefully and precisely as possible. Mr. Chairman. Members of the GroenLinks, SP, PVV, 50PLUS and the Nanninga Group have asked why, in our legislative proposal, we are not only based on the design variant but also on those who have had a serious suspicion of victimisation and trafficking. Why should that become a criminal offence? For convenience, I'll summarize that as the debt variant. I understand very well... we understand very well why these questions live. The underlying idea is, in summary, that someone should know when something is criminal or not. That must be known, foreseeable. Without wishing to do anything about the individual questions, I would like to answer this in conjunction with the best possible response. If I forget things, I'll find out about the remaining questions. First of all, why the debt variant is needed. There is certainly a sometimes subtle but relevant difference between intent and guilt in the context of the legislative proposal before us. In the design variant, the man or customer knows that he is dealing with a victim of human trafficking. That could also be a conditional set-up. With this last graduation of intent, you are talking about an unsub who has not explicitly set himself the goal of using a victim of trafficking in human beings, but an unsub who leaves it indifferent. It was him or her who cared about the sexual services. He knew there was a great chance that it was a victim of human trafficking who was going to provide that service, but nevertheless the customer accepted that opportunity. The knowledge of human trafficking would not have caused him to leave. The next step in the evidence is that there is not a conditional intent but a deliberate debt. Conscious guilt is at issue when the customer knew that there would be a chance that he or she might be dealing with a victim of trafficking in human beings, but that he or she assumes that this is not the case. This customer, unlike on a conditional basis, does not take it for granted that there is trafficking in human beings, because he is not indifferent to it. He is, as it were, more in good faith than in the design variant. The difference between the two variants is not so much in the circumstances in which the prostitute is found, but more in the killer's mindset. That is a question that Mr Recourt, among others, has raised. This also applies to offences that have both a set-up and a debt variant. I will come back to that in a moment. As far as we are concerned, anyone who looks away from any reasonable, well-thinking person who does not miss signals of human trafficking should be punishable. It can only be said that he or she was aware of the risk that the prostitute in question is a victim of trafficking in human beings. In our view, therefore, the fact that, despite such signals, the customer does not refrain from using the services of the prostitute in question should be punishable. He or she assumed far too lightly that it would not go so fast and therefore he or she did not indicate that he or she should abandon the services. That's what we call the debt variant. In the case of the debt variant too, precisely because of ignoring obvious signs of victimisation of trafficking in human beings, we believe that it is so reprehensible that it should be punishable. Looking away in case you're dealing with a prostitute who has to do her or his job in appalling circumstances should therefore be punishable. It is therefore a question of setting a standard. In addition, it also plays a role in the fact that the variants are not always convertible or provable. That is why we need the toughest form of the debt variant, the serious suspicion. That's what the D.A.'s office says. The National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings supports this. That is why we have considered it necessary to include both the design variant and the debt variant explicitly in the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Several Members have asked: what exactly is that? Mrs De Boer said just now when interrupting, it remains a little vague. Mr Recourt also specifically asked about it. It's tricky, too. At the same time, I would like to say to the Members of this House: it is not the case that we are presenting for the first time a combination of a set-up and debt variant. With both the design and the debt variant we follow a combination that is used in many more crimes. We also know them in human trafficking, in Article 197a. In the same article, both those who know and those who have a serious reason to suspect that they are helping someone to gain illegal access to the EU are punishable. There is also the example of the Opium Act. I sum up Article 11a: the person who carries out acts which he knows or has serious suspicions of being acts in preparation for drug trafficking or production is also punishable. So there is also the set-up and the debt variant. I say in the direction of Mrs Baay: that is also in one article. I'm gonna deal with the punishment later. It is therefore not unusual for us to do this. That is why we have followed these examples. This combination of intent and guilt is not so much about the circumstances in which the crime is committed as about the killer's mindset; I mentioned it earlier. Even if he did not have the intent required for the offence, but should and could have acted differently, this is such that these offences are also punishable in a variant of debt. That's the norm. That also has to do with the evidence. After all, it is not always easy to prove intent when someone buys a stolen bike, gives someone illegal access to the EU or performs preparatory acts which he or she knows will facilitate drug crime. I do not want to compare healing with abuse or exploitation, but it does show the construction of our legislation, in which it is not at all illogical to choose this variant. We have, of course, looked very carefully at this. I have already indicated that, in general, the difference between conditional design and the serious suspicion is to be made. The perpetrator is aware of the possibility that the prostitute in question is a victim of trafficking in human beings. That evil opportunity leaves him or her completely indifferent. The culprit with serious suspicion is aware of that same evil opportunity, but that's the difference.. has rejected that possibility as imaginary. The mindset is there again whether the perpetrator's mental attitude towards the possible victim of human trafficking is therefore different. The tightening of the debt variant is mainly intended as a safety net for cases where, in the court's opinion, intent cannot be considered to be sufficiently proven, e.g. because the defendant is silent or making unbelievable statements. In concrete cases, Mr Recourt will also know that the court does not consider it convincing that the customer has been present with the conditional indifference. In such situations, which therefore concern not so much the different external circumstances of the case but rather the judicial opinion, the debt variant can fulfil a safety net. Moreover, the debt variant can also play a complementary role in situations where, while there were obvious signs of victimisation of trafficking in human beings, the customer has not, in the view of the court, been credible in stating that he has informed the prostitute concerned whether or not she is offering her services freely. Such a question is generally not of indifference and is therefore a counter-indication for conditional design. In that case, the debt variant may provide for criminal liability. In short, we do need the debt variant in this crime too. Mr President, with your well-being, I would like to move on to the heading of expression. This brings us to the next question, which several Members have asked, namely the awareness of the victimisation of trafficking in human beings. After all, someone must be able to know what is and is not punishable. Several members asked for it. In the Advisory Section of the Council of State, and later in the House of Representatives, there was a feeling that the original reasonable suspicion that one would be dealing with a victim of trafficking in human beings was too unintended. This could lead to insufficient provision for the customer, or is, when he was supposed to be dealing with a sex worker who was a human trafficking victim. We have therefore amended the bill and tightened the debt variant by replacing the phrase "reasonably suspect" with "serious reason to suspect." This strengthened variant of debt ensures that criminal liability of a customer can only be seen when there are clear signs of victimisation of trafficking in human beings. This means that the provisionability is better guaranteed. Inattention is not a criminal offence, but it is clearly not a question of vague signals, and I would also like to point out to Mrs Bezaan of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u136	Thank you for your answer. Nevertheless, I would like to hear from you clearly and specifically on the basis of which instructions it should be foreseeable for the prostitute that he is liable for criminal offences. I mean concrete examples. I just said I thought it was rather vague. I'd be very grateful if you could give me a chance to put that into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u137	It is a combination of factors that can play a role in this. The example of your colleague, Mr Dittrich, is, of course, quite obvious. Then you know in everything that there is a situation where there can no longer be voluntary. An example of a combination of factors: a woman, not the Dutch language powerful, emaciated, fur and blue. The situation of an abandoned area was mentioned, but I can also imagine the situation of a very luxurious house. So it's an en-and-a-half situation that the judge says there were so many factors now, now you should have reasonably suspected and assumed that this was no longer a voluntary situation. In particular, a number of members of your home have asked questions about authorised and unauthorized prostitution and its invisibility. I think this does play a role. If you are dealing with an authorised situation, you should be able to reasonably assume that you are acting in good faith as a customer. I will say more about this later. I do see that difference and hope that this will also help in your conviction to vote in favour of the bill or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u138	Do I understand correctly that you say that you have amended the legislative proposal, that you have incorporated the reasoning of "serious suspicion" into the legislative text and that in your view you have limited the scope of the legislative proposal to obvious cases? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u139	I can say a lot of words about this, but I would just say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u141	Mr Dittrich, Mrs De Baay, Mrs Nanninga and Mr Rietkerk asked for this. We have discussed this earlier in the explanatory statement, now I have gone into it and I will be presenting a number of things later, but precisely because of the fact that there must be a serious suspicion, we have strongly strengthened this article of law, after criticism and suggestions. It is now as much as possible in line with current legislation. I would like to comment very explicitly on Mr Recourt's question about the abandoned industrial site. No, that in itself is not enough. It may well be that a beautiful escort company is run from an abandoned industrial estate with sex workers who do so with a lot of fun and fun. That is very nice and probably also a very good area for that. But the combination of and-and-and can be a reason to say: now there's a sum of so many things not right... I have to keep talking in the microphone, right, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u142	Preferably.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u143	It's so tempting to look back. It's a serious question, so I'll answer seriously. I hope I have proved this sufficiently. We also have hotels with a similar situation. We really don't ask a customer to turn around in an industrial park. We ask him or her to make an informed assessment in his or her head at the time when they use services: is this voluntary or not? In particular, therefore, this is the characteristic feature of the fact that, in the event of an exploitation situation, the prostitute or prostitute is in such a vulnerable position that there can no longer be any voluntary activity. In that case, liability will indeed be involved on the basis of a debt variant. Of course, there have always been borders, as we have just indicated. But we really think that we have struck a blow with the improvements and tightening up of our bill. This brings us to the next legitimate question, which is about labelling and licensing. Mr Recourt brought that up. Mrs Baay and Mr Raven continued to do so. We do believe that a serious quality mark with good conditions and controls reduces the risk of abuse and helps the prostitute to distinguish whether or not he or she is dealing with a victim of trafficking in human beings. A label can be helpful in reducing the risk of wrongdoing. Should a future bill on the regulation of prostitution still contain a licensing system, the permit conditions may impose requirements that reduce the risk of victims of trafficking in human beings. In this context, I would like to emphasise the following in reply to questions put by Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks. If a customer wants to use the services of a sex worker in a sex establishment that meets the strict requirements, including in terms of control of exploitation, the bar for criminality under our bill is very high. So yes, that doesn't make the design variant any more obvious. Some people said, "Does that make any difference?" We saw today that Meld Crime Anonymous says the number of reports of illegal prostitution has increased enormously, because it has reduced regular, legal offer. The fight against illegal prostitution, the search for regular forms and the regulation by means of labels can help us do that, the latest insights teach us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u144	Thank you for this explanation. All I'm assuming is that you mean that the debt variant wouldn't be obvious anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u145	Did I say it wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u146	You said the design variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u147	Excuse me. It might be a bit of the tension or fatigue of the moment, or just my brain acting a little crazy now and then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u148	I'd like to go back to the label variant. In the letter of 3 March last, the Minister states that such a mark is to the industry itself. But do I understand that the initiators would wholeheartedly support such a quality mark?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u149	Yes. Because it is a label, it is logical that it comes from the industry itself. But we think it is a good initiative. The government can also see how it can facilitate its operation. That is the role of the industry; you can help with quality standards. The role of the government is, of course, much more in licensing and other matters. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u150	What would the initiators prefer, a label or a licensing system?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u151	I think that a quality mark can be very helpful, also because it comes very much from the industry itself and they are so afraid of repression or a negative stamp on sex work. At the same time, of course, there are many municipalities that have good experiences with permits. So I wouldn't want to put one thing above another. So I'm talking about an en-and-variant. Mr De Meijer had also asked a question about this. I have therefore also answered his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u152	Mr. Meijer. Not "The Meijer" but "Meijer."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u153	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna wrap it up fast, make less mistakes. We are therefore focusing on that part of the prostitution industry, which is trying to get out of sight of the authorities, as Mrs Kuik said in her reply. Mr Recourt and Mr Dittrich also said that this is unfortunately a growing part of the industry. I referred just now to the article by NOS that is just online, which shows that it has only grown because of the covid crisis. The question was also: does that mean that nothing can ever go wrong in the licensed part? No, of course not. Mrs. De Baay also said, does that mean that if you pay, you can never be convicted of rape? No, of course there isn't. But I do think the bar is a lot higher if you have quality standards and permits, and that can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u154	I'm afraid to say it, but it's Mrs. Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u155	What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u156	"The Baay," for the second time. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u157	I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u158	Well, I do, but I'm afraid I'm gonna be part of LuckyTV. I'm not gonna say another word. It may be assumed that when a customer enters an authorised establishment and uses it, it is less obvious that he or she encounters a forced situation there. Mr Dittrich, and also Mr Recourt, if I am correct, asked why human trafficking does not need to be proven. Perhaps that is contradictory, but we see it differently. We do not believe that it is necessary for the trafficking of human beings to be proven themselves, before there can be criminality under the present legislative proposal. Of course, one doesn't rule out the other. It might help to prove the crime in our bill if the trafficking in human beings themselves were proven. In this sense, both crimes affect each other, but not so much that they have to go together. We believe that both offences should have a stand-alone position. Article 2.73f deals with the trafficking of human beings, i.e. the man who forced the woman or man in question to prostitution, which we intend to criminalise in Article 2.86g. Article 2.73g is indeed a misunderstanding, as has rightly been pointed out. So what we want to make criminal is the client who finds the prostitute in the circumstances that indicate victimisation of trafficking in human beings. He or she is the one who takes advantage of a prostitute in a situation that clearly indicates exploitation, without being the one who forced her to do so. We want that fact to be punishable in itself rather than the entire chain of trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u159	However, I do not quite understand it, because the article that the initiators are proposing refers to the article that stands for it. It is said that we want to protect the victim of human trafficking by criminalising that prostitute. Reference is made to the article in question. But you say in the explanatory statement: but not all the components of trafficking in human beings need to be proven. So I do not understand how to criminalise those who abuse the victim of human trafficking, when the components of human trafficking do not all need to be proven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u160	Let me make another attempt, otherwise we will come back to this in a little more detail in the second term. I see it as follows. I'm a client and I come to you, but you're oppressed. I already know I'm a criminal. That's the landlord. Then I do not think that we should turn the whole chain around in order to prove that form of trafficking in human beings. So it's really about the client-prostitute relationship. That's how we see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u161	But why is there reference in your article to the previous article?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u162	Because exploitation is subject to a form of trafficking in human beings and is also seen as exploitation in the same category.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u163	But wouldn't it have made more sense to include that definition in your own article, apart from the article before it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u164	Let me return to that question in the second term, in order to give a very specific answer. In my opinion, Mrs Kuik has answered the question about the penalty. If that is not the case, we will hear it again in a moment. I think all the questions have been dealt with so far. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. I would like to thank Members very much for their patience and attention on this Monday evening. I would like to say one final sentence, but I will wait until I have answered the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u165	I, too, thank the initiators, of course, but I still had one question to ask, which has to do with the previous point. But we'll get back to that in the second term, so I'm gonna leave that for a while. It is a question of whether, within the case law that lies ahead, it can be used as an incentive. In entrapment, you put a cop in and act like she's a victim of human trafficking. That is not really the case; the intention is to trap prostitutes... I almost wanted to say, but then it goes beyond the bounds of case law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u166	I do not think that is included in the legislative proposal, but you want to know very precisely whether you are at risk of doing so. I would like to return to that in the second term, and the Minister for Legal Protection will also comment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u167	Okay. For now, I'll explain why I'm asking. The moment you have to prove human trafficking, you can't use entrapment, because that cop isn't a victim. The moment it doesn't have to be proven, it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u168	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u169	Before you start with your last sentence, I would like to go back to the beginning of Mr Segers' speech and to your last words. I understand that the four initiators say that they are willing to look positively at the bill submitted by the government, which contains a licensing system and a label and that kind of thing. That must, of course, be said even further. And I understand that if you go that way, the Swedish model is absolutely set aside by all four initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u170	That's right, and maybe I can add a more precise addition to that. There is a request for an investigation in the Lower House, so in our house, but not only has it been explicitly asked to look at the Swedish model. We have also been specifically asked to look at the New Zealand model. As a result, it has also received broad support from the House of Representatives. We do not want to stare blindly at our own barrier model. What we are doing now is really based on the barrier model, nothing more and nothing less. And with that I can immediately make a bridge to my last answer. Mrs. Nanninga said she's standing here as a conservative-liberal. Well, maybe after Wednesday we are a bit the butted coalition, but we as a whole are also colorful, because sometimes we may look at these kinds of issues quite differently. We are doing this on the basis of the conviction that, if you are dealing with exploitation, it is impossible to explain the emergence of a gap. Perhaps it was Mr Dittrich who brought this forward the most heartbreakingly. We have been patient to wait for all kinds of other legislative proposals, but now we have said: now we have to take responsibility. There really are all kinds of hooks and eyes to it, there really is a lot to do and we don't know exactly if it's going to work yet. That is why there is a strong assessment. Mr Van Nispen also said it. Let's do something to protect victims. I hope you will support us in that. Thank you for your attention, and I apologize for my slips.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now turn to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u172	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing me to act as your advisor here today and to express the position on this bill on behalf of the cabinet. I'm gonna try to do that some way. Many questions have been asked twice, both to the initiators and to the cabinet. Maybe that's why I try to go through it a little bit more with a hink-step-jump. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the cabinet, I greatly appreciate the use of the right of initiative by the members of the Lower House. This contributes to the political debate. This certainly applies to the present proposal, which deals with a socially particularly relevant issue, namely the criminal protection of victims of trafficking in human beings within prostitution. It is commendable to the initiators that they have set themselves the objective of looking at how they can extend protection through an amendment of the law. Trafficking in human beings is a particularly serious crime. It leads to exploitation situations, to degrading circumstances. In several studies, we read how vulnerable the prostitution sector is to abuses towards individual victims, but also because of its nature for intertwining with other forms of crime. At first instance, for example, there was mention of undermining, and I think that is right. The cabinet is firmly committed to stepping up the fight against trafficking in human beings and other abuses in prostitution. This is done, among other things, by my two colleagues, including at the Ministry of Justice. The initiators do so in turn with this bill. They do so by focusing specifically on the demand side and the role of the customer in maintaining a network of sexual exploitation. That is an important, but now missing leg in what one might call the triangle: on one corner are the victims, on the other corner are the traffickers and the perpetrators and on the third corner, on the demand side, are the clients and prostitutes. Mr. Chairman. The questions asked are, I think, to be divided into three subjects. I'd like to start by declaring a few things about the criminal offence. Secondly, I will address all the questions relating to implementation and enforcement. I will conclude with a block in which I deal with the relationship with other laws that are in the pipeline and with questions about the implementation and introduction of a bill, should that eventually reach a majority in your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the criminal charges. During the plenary discussion of the initiative proposal in the Lower House in 2016, the scope of the client's criminal liability was an important subject of discussion. In this context, the initiators saw reason to amend the bill by letter of amendment by replacing the ordinary debt variant with a conscious debt variant in the description of the offence. In other words, there must be a serious suspicion of victimisation. As a result, the lower limit for the customer's criminal liability lies in the debt variant in situations where the customer "knows that he is dealing with a victim of trafficking in human beings" on the basis of obvious signals. For the sake of convenience, I would like to add my voice to what Mr Dittrich has just said. The current government policy places a heavy weight on the protection of exploited prostitutes. Customers using the services of victims of trafficking in human beings contribute to the maintenance of a network of sexual exploitation. A separate criminalisation of the customer in the Code of Criminal Law therefore results in a normative effect. Customers are encouraged to assume their responsibilities and to refrain from the use of the services of a prostitute in science, but also in obvious signs. Mrs Baay and Mr Dittrich asked: what does this normative preventive side look like? It is precisely in this area, I would say, that a clear standard is explicitly set. It also indicates when there really is evidence that a customer should renounce paid sex. Ideally, the person concerned should also mention this. I say this in conjunction with the fact that this legislative proposal also explicitly denounces the abuses. We live in the Netherlands in a country where other forms of prostitution, legal forms of paid sex, are also possible. So you can also say that, in a sense, this bill contributes not only to standards and prevention, but also to channeling into forms of prostitution that we would rather see. There will be differences of opinion between the initiators here and there, but if we look at the current government policy, that is the case. Then there is the question about the criminalisation of the client. This bill extends it to the criminal protection of victims of trafficking in human beings. This means that, in addition to the legislative and preventive side, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office will have more opportunities for the detection and prosecution of sexual exploitation. In that respect, you could say that the protection of exploited prostitutes outweighs the position of the customer. Mr Meijer asked: when will there be a proven statement? What exactly is needed for this and is it sufficiently foreseeable? In any case, I note that provisionability has been greatly improved by the letter of amendment replacing the normal debt variant with the relevant debt variant. That actually increases the burden of proof. Where exactly is it and how do we see the proof of this variant? To Mr Rietkerk, who asked a question about this, I say: the lower limit for criminality in a serious variant of debt lies in the 'have serious reason to suspect'. Evidence of serious guilt does not require anyone to have the knowledge of the victim's position; in the case of this initiative proposal, the victimisation of trafficking in human beings. It is sufficient that, given the facts and the circumstances, the customer should have been aware of the possibility of victimisation. That's a slightly lower evidence requirement than in the design variant. In other words, I repeat once again, it is obvious signals that are ignored by the customer. There has just been a brief interruption debate, because this initiative legislative proposal combines both the design and the debt variant, about whether you should separate it from each other. A number of examples of other crimes were mentioned where the legislator deliberately chose to take them together, such as Article 197a and Article 10a of the Opium Act. I think that the legislator would like to point out that there is a sliding scale between both the design and the debt variant. It is not unusual not to mention them separately with separate criminality regimes. Then there is the question of the relation to Article 273f. The new Article 273g, first paragraph, Criminal Code, does not penalise the exploiter himself, the human dealer, but the user of the exploitation situation, the customer. They have different targets in that respect. In the explanatory statement, the initiators consider that, where there is talk of victimisation of trafficking in human beings or exploitation, reference is made to those who make available to the conduct of sexual acts under the first paragraph of Article 273f. A reference to all items under Article 273f, paragraph 1, Criminal Code is therefore not relevant. Nor is it a proof of all the ingredients. I share the view of the initiators that a proven statement of Article 273g must establish that the victim was in an exploitation situation. You may be able to have a discussion about how this is done in a legal sense, but I'm pretty good at this explanation. It is also in his mind that criminality for trafficking in human beings requires someone to force someone else to do so in the direction of Mrs De Boer, for example, by means of a different factuality, to provide sexual services for the purpose of exploitation. That article sees trafficking in human beings as creating an exploitation situation, while Article 273g is based on the customer. The customer does not usually create the exploitation situation in which the prostitute is found himself. It is therefore often impossible to prosecute the customer for trafficking in human beings, but such a person is guilty of taking advantage of a vulnerable situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u173	Minister, exactly what elements must be proven? Because it's not clear to me anymore. Not the trafficking of human beings, but the exploitation? How? Which parts of exploitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u174	The vulnerable situations in which exploitation can take place and which give rise to the assumption that there is a situation of exploitation. That's how I take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u175	So the situation has to be proven. Those are the obvious cases: someplace afterwards and with bruises and I know what. But then it remains that, for example, in cases of entrapment, whether it is used or not, there is no question of trafficking in human beings. There is no need to prove exploitation, because this is not the case in the case of entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u176	In my view, it is not the intention of the initiators, nor of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office to work with the prostitute, especially because of the preventive objective of the legislative proposal. Article 273g deals with the circumstances on the basis of which the customer should have a serious suspicion of a situation of exploitation. There's the cross reference to the member before that. There are several elements in the Member concerned with trafficking in human beings, because the burden of proof for trafficking in human beings, which is a more serious crime, is higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u177	But it makes clear to legal practice exactly what needs to be proved. That's a pretty precise process. That is now limited, I conclude, because apparently all you have to do is prove that there are those elements that make it an obvious situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u178	Exactly, yeah. There was also Mrs Nanninga and Mr Rietkerk's question on the authorised sector. Also in an authorised company I will say something in the last block about certification........................................................................................................................................................... In doing so, it may be assumed that a customer can rely on apologetic error if he enters an authorised establishment and uses the services of a forced prostitute, the exploitation situation of which does not impose any pressure on the customer. In such circumstances, the customer may rely on the unwritten penalty exclusion ground "absence of all debt'. Then a few things about enforcement. I understand very well that many of these questions are being put to me. The initiators themselves have estimated that detection and prosecution can largely take place within existing efforts and frameworks. That is important, because if that were not the case, we would also have a discussion on the financial consequences of the legislative proposal. According to the initiators, these are relatively limited. This corresponds to the input given by the Council for Justice, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. They all come to the conclusion that it will not be expected to lead to a significant increase in the number of cases. If this is the case, it can be absorbed within existing capacity. This is also due to the fact that this existing capacity has been stimulated under this cabinet. Not only in a general sense, for example, look at the coalition agreement and the intensification of the Public Prosecutor's Office, where we have been trying to invest in capacity in recent times, but also specifically in dealing with trafficking in human beings. This has also been the subject of investment in recent years. The capacity for the Foreign Police, Identification and Trafficking Division has been increased following the Segers/Asscher motion. In the coming years, around 100 FTE will be added to this section for dealing with trafficking in human beings in a constructive series, to be precise 87. Of these, the vast majority are intended for the specific area of trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u179	I waited because I had another question about the approved facility and the non-approved facility. Those last sentences came out pretty fast. Can the Minister get that last piece of text back? I have a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u180	I'm just gonna get it out of my head. There are already authorised establishments, but that is actually under the old legal regime. In doing so, it is very dependent on whether municipalities make use of it. The regimes can also vary from municipality to municipality. There has been a new bill in the House of Representatives for several weeks or months. It's controversially explained, but still. The sex work law is based on a more harmonised legal framework, which, moreover, focuses not only on the institutions, the clubs but also on individual professionals. So it offers a more covering network. The question is whether this legislative proposal is deliberate or grossly guilty and whether it matters if you go to a licensed club or institution. Of course it matters. What I want to give you is that it doesn't fire the customer from keeping eyes and ears open. It is still possible in an authorised institution that there is exploitation, or at least victims of exploitation. There may be circumstances where you can say: these are obvious cases; you should have been alert to them. I hope that gives something of a nuance towards Mr Rietkerk. A suspect is also likely to rely on this, but with that someone is not immediately free of guilt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u181	My final question is this: in the view of the Minister, is there a less forced situation in authorised establishments or situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u182	You assume that these aspects will also be monitored by the relevant government organisation when issuing permits. In this case, that's a municipality. That's gonna change on parts later. That still doesn't relieve the individual customer of being vigilant on obvious signals that you have to pick up when it comes to exploitation. But of course a licensing system gives more guarantees and guarantees than, so to speak, an agreement somewhere in an industrial area. It's happened a few times. You can see it in the basement boxes, of course, and you name it all. We are talking about other occasions than authorised institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u183	I do not want to get bogged down in casuism and I understand that the Minister cannot sit on the judge's seat, but for our group there is, of course, part of the attraction of this bill that it promotes, as it were, the licensed industry, and thereby reduces the volume of customers seeking recourse to wrong prostitution. I understand that the Minister cannot simply say: "Oh, you go to a whorehouse with a hallmark; then you're always good." I'd like that to be a little clearer. I hear you're not exactly off the hook, so to speak. Well, what exactly is my question? Is that distinction as sharp as I suppose it is, namely that this is an important factor in the legal sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u184	Yeah, it's a very important factor. I do not want to give an immediate kind of licence in this debate, or an overall debt exclusion ground. I was just saying something about channeling. The idea of channelization is that you have a shadowy circuit where every sane person on all sides should have the alarm bells off. In addition, you should know that at such a time you are in a situation where you have to refrain from services, or else you run the risk of prosecuting a criminal offence. On the other hand, there is someone who is looking for paid sex, who wants to do it in a good way, and who comes out with an authorized institution which, of course, you can assume in the base, that it is there. Otherwise, it's supposed to be crazy in a manner of speaking. It could be different in theory, but it'll have to go crazy. So, yes, there are two regimes, without giving the overall exclusion that an authorised institution is always, in all cases, 100% okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u185	May I summarize it in such a way that the Minister is holding his hand, but that in the licensed sector you can rely on the good faith of the customer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u186	I'd say basically, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u187	I'd like to ask the Minister if he's done with his story, or if he has any more information for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u188	I've got more. Not so much anymore, but I also have a few questions you asked. Maybe I'll come by there. Mr. Chairman. I've already said something about the police and the D.A.'s office. Both have indicated that they can handle the bill well, but they have also given the profit warning that the new criminalisation is not expected to lead to very large numbers of convictions every year. This also has to do with the fact that this is often a case of fetch offences, as it is always called in the jargon. This means that these types of offences are detected during prostitution checks, for example when there are deadly situations, or that such facts come to light in broader investigations into trafficking in human beings under Article 273f, including the clientele. I think that this also says something about the willingness to report. I saw that Mr Recourt and Mr Van Nispen are already closer to each other on this point. The question is how great the willingness to report is at the moment for people who are actually already knowingly entering such a shady circuit. Insofar as there is now the willingness to report, the route also exists via Meld Crime Anonymous, but you especially want the most work done on the standard and preventive side. Then there was the demand for the deployment of fake victims. The initiators have indicated that the main aim is prevention. The criminalisation should contribute to raising customer awareness and alertness in situations where a prostitute actually makes itself available for sexual services in an exploitation situation. In particular, we are concerned with the hope, or the expectation, that this criminalisation will encourage customers to avoid existing abuses, so that exploitation takes place less, or that they will report that exploitation sooner, so that it can be combated more quickly. Against this background, in my view, it is not so much a reason for the use of virtual decoy profiles or decoy prostitutes, so that they can be used very actively for proactive detection. Questioned is how we deal with this bill, if it can count on a majority, and how this bill relates to other legislative proposals. I've just said something about the law on sex work. As a consequence, there was still a demand for international research into the effects and side effects of different models. We expect this investigation to be completed by the end of the year. I can promise the Chamber that I will send it to the First Chamber. Mr Recourt and Mr Rietkerk noted that the bill on the regulation of sex work also included the criminalisation. But this is about the possibility of taking criminal action against unlicensed operators and against customers, if the prostitute or the company where the prostitute works is not licensed. That is actually more of an order issue. That is why it is an offence, which in nature and gravity is of a different order than the one introduced by this initiative proposal. That's what you see in the felony sentence, four years in prison versus 12 months in custody. If the bill is passed, what are we going to do in terms of information? I think that is a very important point, which is no longer on the board of the initiators, but much more on the board of the cabinet. I think this point is important for two reasons. If you want this bill to have a preventive effect, it needs to be made public. Then customers must also know that this new criminal offence is being introduced. This means that if the vote is taken and the proposal gets a majority, my college will be at the table shortly afterwards with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the VNG. It will also involve sex workers and people with experience in the field of sexual exploitation. Then all kinds of questions will be addressed. When exactly are you punishable? Which signals do you have to be alert on exactly? How do you anticipate signals? What's the alternative? How can you report wrongdoing? That has yet to take shape, but we do want to make serious work of it. This is important not only for the preventive effect, but also for the provisionability. You also want to make it clear when there are obvious signals. Mr Dittrich asked if we would include the willingness to report in the evaluation. I'll give you my word on that. Furthermore, an important part of the accompanying policy in the Sex Work Regulation Act is to combat abuses, such as trafficking in human beings. But that also means that destigma of sex work is an important part of that accompanying policy, because the stigma of buying sex can be a threshold for customers to report abuses, such as sexual exploitation. Hence the comment earlier on channelization. Then a number of questions were asked about the report of the Centre against Trafficking in Children and Trafficking in Human Beings. The results show once again the importance of preventive measures, both towards the young offenders and towards the victims. These insights help the people in the judicial corner, police police, but also care, to do the good things. As a result, the question has also been put on the table, among others by fellow member Van der Staaij on the other side, to investigate the over-representation of people with a migration background in various forms of crime. That investigation is currently being carried out by the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Social Affairs. Now that is not the only worrying signal that emerges from the report. In particular, the online issue is becoming increasingly important. That is one of the major concerns we have at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u189	I can go with the last words. You mentioned the word online. My question is as follows. The report also contains important recommendations for the use of technology in the protection of victims. Is that recommendation being picked up, too? Is there any call for more focused research by that centre? Is there any response to that? How does this follow-up proceed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u190	I understand there are sessions on the role of technology in trafficking in human beings. There is a groundbreaking with the various authorities, to see what we can do in that area. Then there were questions about the label. There has been a lot of talk about this. Now it is up to the sector itself. We are not opposed to this, but, of course, we ourselves have a legislative proposal that goes one step further and is based on regulation. Mrs Bikker asked if there was any homework left when it came to implementing international treaties. This is an optional provision. This means that states themselves will be able to weigh up to what extent they are going to do so. Apart from this initiative proposal, no further legislative initiatives are currently foreseen. We believe that the international conventions will be complied with. Mrs Bezaan asked about minimum penalties for crimes involving sexual exploitation. She herself referred to the public service ban. I always find it a bit annoying to call the public service ban a minimum sentence, because it is precisely a public service ban that offers a great deal of variety when it comes to customisation. It does not involve some kind of mandatory level of imprisonment. With that you can see that judges still have enough room for manoeuvre to indicate their own colour and apply customization. If you were to enter into a system of minimum penalties, it would require that all possible forms of criminal offence should be described in detail. Minimum and maximum penalties will therefore have to be set, including the punitive circumstances. In other words, that's a huge operation. I do not see any reason at the moment to change the current system completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u191	Isn't the right argument that we should leave the judge the freedom to do customised work in a specific situation? From your answer on minimum penalties, I will pick up that you say: it is so complicated to go about it all. But that's not a principled approach, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u192	That's right. There's a practical side to it that makes it technically and legally very complicated. There is, of course, also the question of principle. At any rate, I do not think it is necessary for these matters at the moment to work with minimum penalties. There is some discussion on other issues, and of course we all know the electoral programmes. It will probably be a commitment to the new formation, but we are all going to wait and see. All I want to say is that there has also been a major debate on minimum penalties in relation to the public service ban. I fully support the community service ban as we know it for serious crimes of violence and vice, and hopefully soon also for violence against agents and other aid workers. In fact, I think it is also on the legislator's way to identify the penalties that are appropriate to certain offences. However, that leads me to a discussion which we hope to have very soon here about the public service ban. Mr. Chairman. Finally, something separate from the bill. Mrs De Boer was right to ask about sex workers who could get into trouble at this time of corona. I'm familiar with those signals. It is now the case that persons legally resident in the Netherlands can claim, if they meet the criteria of the schemes, the temporary bridging scheme independent entrepreneurs, the Tozo, the WW and the general assistance. But they don't all fit in there. You said that yourself. Now municipalities also have a financial safety net for target groups affected by the corona crisis and sex workers are one of those groups. Especially for households that were previously between shore and ship, the TONK, the Temporary Support Necessary Costs, provides wider access to the special assistance tools and prostitutes can also claim this. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u193	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u194	Mr. Chairman. I believe that today I am the only speaker who has 'the' in the name. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the initiators and the Minister for reply. Let me begin by saying that I am pleased with what Mr Segers has said that this proposal is not an adaptation to the Swedish model and that he does not want a government imposing a sexual morality on others. We'll remember that for later! He is a pragmatic choice for that approach to trafficking in human beings that leads to the least number of victims, and we can find each other in that. Even after the interrupting debate with Mr Segers, I still think it is a missed chance that the proposed Article 273g is only about prostitution and not about the abuse of victims of trafficking in human beings in the broad sense. I also continue to find it problematic that the proposal, contrary to what the European directive requires, does not impose on the criminality the requirement that there is actual trafficking in human beings and thus a victim. I had also asked why the current criminal acts would not provide sufficient relief. The initiators referred to Lindenberg's quickscan, which does indeed show the gaps quite clearly. Colleague Bikker sent it to me quickly, so I browsed through it. I had only read a few quotes before. I conclude from this that, especially when the science of exploitation is lacking, persecution is now difficult. When that science is there, the quickscan already sees possibilities for persecution: "It is conceivable that the mediocre compulsion is a coercive type that can occur in the sphere of the prostitute. It will then of course be extreme cases where the involuntaryness is clearly manifested by a set of visible factors such as the location, the nature of the people in the vicinity of the prostitute, injuries to the prostitute and, above all, the behaviour of the prostitute." I'm just gonna translate this as "evident signals." "When the prostitute subsequently performs or receives the sexual acts despite knowing that the prostitute undergoes or performs the sexual acts against her will, it may be concluded, on the basis of the case-law, that this falls in principle within the scope of Articles 242 and 246." So that's rape and sexual assault. Although this possibility is already there, I have the impression that very little is being prosecuted for this in practice. My question about the numbers has not been answered, but good. Apart from that, of course, there is the question of whether this is due to the elements needed to arrive at a proven statement, for which this bill may provide a solution, or a lack of capacity, or something else. Then I come to the effect on the willingness to report. In the first term, the initiators also concluded after a small debate that little will change the customer's willingness to report who is now using a prostitute in a situation that points to trafficking in human beings. This willingness to report is now low and is expected to remain low. This leaves the notification of customers visiting a prostitute in a situation that does not at first sight indicate abuse. These are the customers who sometimes report the signs of exploitation and violence. I don't see very well why the customer's willingness to report would increase. On the contrary, it would be more logical if it were to go down, out of the already mentioned fear of incriminating itself. This fear is also expressed by sex workers in the regulated sector. This fear is also understandable if it is not clear what exactly is the situation in which one could be unintendedly punishable, which are now the clear signs of trafficking in human beings. This fear could perhaps be removed if parliamentary history showed that the debt variant does not see prostitution in the licensed visible sector. I am therefore pleased with the ruling of the initiators that if a customer in the authorised sector is to lose sex, the good faith of the customer can be assumed and that criminality on the basis of that variant of debt is not obvious. I hope, however, that this will be made clear in the communication on criminalisation, such as in the public campaign the initiators wanted, precisely in order to strengthen the preventive effect of this bill and to ensure that customers turn away from prostitution in shady situations with high vulnerability to abuse and instead turn to the regulated prostitution sector. Do the initiators agree with me? Can the Minister undertake that campaign? I am surprised at the Minister's response that he expects little new things as a result of this bill. Isn't it about being able to prosecute in situations where that's not possible right now? Then it's supposed to be more business, isn't it? Then we have a problem when we know that the current capacity of the judiciary and police to deal with trafficking in human beings is already insufficient. Surely it is not the intention to create a symbolic criminality here, I ask the Minister. I assume that is not the intention of the initiators. I am therefore curious to hear their response to this remark by the Minister. About the position of the sex workers in times of corona: it is only a question of whether the financial safety net of the municipalities, the TONK, is sufficient. I would like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to give more information on the position of the sex worker. Can he inform us in writing about this, in particular about whether the safety nets are really helpful and how big the problem is for people who are going to work anyway? I think that's something we all don't want. Mr. Chairman. Today's debate has brought more clarity, including the way in which the law, if the proposal is adopted, will have to be interpreted in the near future. Whether our doubts have been removed in such a way that we can vote in favour of the proposal, I will discuss it in our group. I would like to say to the President that this will not work very well for tomorrow's votes, because there will be another plenary debate here tomorrow morning. So I'd like to do that next week. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u195	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I would like to give the floor to Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Before I went into the initiative proposal, I was terrified that Mr Bikker said, where I had expected her for tomorrow and next week, that this might be her last contribution here in this house. I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to thank her for the cooperation, especially now that the separations we have with each other are complicated in these corona times. Thank you for your cooperative cooperation. I've been very happy to be a part of it. Thank you. We will undoubtedly hear from her in the Lower House. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the initiators and the Minister for defending the initiative as it stands. It is also necessary, as far as we are concerned, for something to happen. That's what I said in the first installment. As a Deputy Child Welfare Officer in the province of South Holland, I have spoken a lot with victims, children often still, who were signed for life. That doesn't just keep up with me for life, it keeps up with them, and that's much worse. Therefore, doing nothing is not an option for us. That brings us to the balance we are making today. It takes too long, as far as we are concerned, to wait for the overall legislative proposal, because it is still uncertain when it will lead to anything and waiting every day is a day with a chance of new victims. It is good to hear that it is a refinement of the barrier model, as Mr Segers said, and not a step towards the Swedish model. I do see a difference with the other examples that have been mentioned, whether they are asparagus marks, tomato picking or the construction of infra-projects, where there are all kinds of abuses with all kinds of shady subcontractors. There are many places where there is human trafficking with a lot of misery, but the direct, personal, physical abuse of a victim of exploitation is a different category for me. A criminal category; let me just put it this way. The Minister said: I do not expect it to be about very large numbers every year; these are the signals. So be it, because we are also looking at the preventive effect. But any report that leads to a poignant situation of abuse and to a solution to put an end to it is a report. And any customer who is deterred by the fact that there is now a criminal offence is a customer who is deterred, and that is how we avoid misery. The burden of excesses of prostitution should not be placed with the prostitutes, but with the clients who often hide behind cowardly excuses. The possible circumstances have already been mentioned in many examples. But it's ultimately up to the judge to determine if enough bruises have been found on the victim. I'll just say it very harshly, or if the man who was taken care of at the door is impressive enough, and if the location was suspicious enough. All circumstances on which no sane person would doubt, but it is ultimately, according to this bill, up to the judge to judge. But someone who, as a customer, ignores the signals I just mentioned, must be aware that these are not normal circumstances and that you can therefore be held responsible for your own conscious actions. You can't get away with that. As far as the SP Group is concerned, it is high time for the responsibility to lie where it belongs, namely with the one who consciously creates the demand and maintains it. We talk very often about how many cases they are, but it is not about cases, but always about people, vulnerable people, often young people and young adults. That's what it's about. The SP Group believes that with this proposal, as it is now before us, we can make the situation better than it is today. It won't solve everything, but it'll make it better. We can never stop doing that either. Mr. Chairman. Finally, therefore, I would like to repeat a sentence from my first term. At the risk of being worn for fools, I believe that one day everything will be beautiful and good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u197	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u198	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for the comprehensive and careful response by all the initiators and, of course, the Minister. Mr Van Nipsen noted that this bill was not intended to prosecute as many customers as possible, but rather to raise awareness of abuse in prostitution. Isn't that going to require other resources? I call it domestic... domestic violence, for example. Time is starting to play a role!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u199	I also have to intervene consistently, because otherwise I will fail Mrs Kuik. It's not Mr. Van Nipsen, it's Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u200	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u201	But go ahead, Mrs Baay. You are now 1-1 with Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u202	Maybe we should do the first round of proposals again. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u203	Then you come together in LuckyTV!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u204	So I was in the process of raising awareness once again with the question of whether there are any other means to do so, for example in the case of domestic violence. There's a taboo on that, too. By now a lot of TV commercials bring this to the attention of a very wide audience, increasing awareness. Wouldn't the same road also be a possibility for trafficking in human beings? Mr. Chairman. My group still finds it difficult to reach a verdict on the basis of the unsub's mindset. This may be further developed by case law in the future, but this will take some years. Mr. Chairman. Again, I am aware that drafts and debt variants are more often combined in one sentence. But just as often they are punished separately by similar provisions. Then intent has a heavier measure of punishment than negligence or carelessness. My group would have liked this bill to be split up, partly because of the difficult indicators to specify: the obvious signs of a situation in which the customer had a serious reason to suspect that the prostitute or prostitute does not voluntarily offer her or his services. Mr. Chairman. To a large extent, I would point out that trafficking in human beings must be combated in any area. That is also absolutely certain for 50PLUS. Thank you again for the answer, which makes my group very much involved in the final assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u205	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If this law has the effect of shifting prostitution, which now takes place to a large extent in backrooms, hotel rooms and so on, to the legal part, the authorised part, the part covered by the label, that is a big profit. Because then we fight trafficking in human beings; that is what it comes down to. I have a few points to make. What I'm happy about is the explanation about conditional intent and the debt variant. I will summarize that and ask the initiators to say in their second term whether I have summarised it correctly. I understand it so that the situation underneath is identical, but that the difference is "in fact," which is then summarized as the word "mindset," which means that you do not have to prove that the risk is knowingly accepted in the case of the debt variant, as in the case of the conditional set-up. For example, in the case of a silent or lying suspect, there was an example quoted in which it was said "I asked" while that was not at all credible. That makes it a lot clearer to me. I'm happy about that. The point of obvious signals is also slightly clearer. It is still true that I agree with Mrs Baay that these limits should ultimately be laid down in case law. None of that is going to happen very quickly, because there are not many cases. Anyway, it's become a little clearer that the judge can make demands on the evidence. This, too, is at least a little more workable for practice. A number of points remain difficult. One of those points is that what Mrs De Boer, Mr Dittrich and myself were talking about is that you can be found guilty of this new crime without trafficking in human beings. Then you cut off the evidence route a little bit, or you say: the formal purpose of this criminalisation is not also to combat trafficking in human beings, but to criminalise serious immorality. Then you're in the honor and all. Then it fits dogmatically again. That is why, in my first term, I came up with a solution to this problem. Now I find it really difficult to say: the aim is to combat trafficking in human beings, but you can be convicted without trafficking in human beings. It is a bit of legalization, but it is an important point for proper legislation. I'm gonna take a look at my score list. I think I've made the most important points. I'm happy with the clarification. That does not mean that I can give the green light right away. I am going back to the group, and there were serious objections. I must convince my group members that these objections have been removed to a sufficient extent, so that the balance is in the right direction. I can't give that judgment right now. That follows on from the votes, not tomorrow but next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u207	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the four initiators, and of course to the Minister, for the serious response. I think it is very nice to see the involvement of Members of Parliament in this important issue. For the D66 Group, it would actually have been better if we had been able to combine this initiative proposal with the discussion of the government's legislative proposal. However, that has been controversially explained, so I understand very well that the initiators say: then we will continue with this. I understand from the Minister that at the end of this year, at the end of 2021, that model comparison will come out and will also be sent to the First Chamber. In due course, therefore, we will be able to hold a thorough debate in the First Chamber on the whole of the prostitution policy. If I confine myself to this bill, I have written down that its scope is limited to the obvious cases of victimisation of trafficking in human beings. I'm still stuck with the next question. We are criminalising the victim of trafficking in human beings here and the prostitute, but we are referring to an article and saying that the trafficking in human beings contained in that article does not need to be proven on all components. I'm gonna keep having a hard time with that. This would be dealt with in the second term. That's the answer I like to hear. What is very important for the D66 group is what Mr Segers started with, namely that this bill is not an adaptation to the Swedish model. He has also made it very clear that there is no sexual morality imposed by the government on others. I also heard Mrs Kuik say that she is open to that licensing system and that label. I heard the minister say: we want to regulate sex work as a government. So these are important data for my group. I will look very briefly at a number of points. Information is very important. I would like to stress here that this is in cooperation and with the cooperation of the sex workers, especially where preventive action is concerned. Then there is the willingness to report. Thank you to the Minister for the commitment that this will be included in the evaluation. But I also understand the fear of sex workers who say that criminalising prostitutes could lead to a reduction in the number of reports. That's a tricky point, isn't it? So I hope that's gonna get a good look at that. As far as the accompanying policy is concerned, I have also heard very clearly that the government is committed to the stigmatisation of sex work and to the promotion of the position of legal sex workers. That is important for my group. I am very pleased with this, and I will close by saying that there is no minimum penalty in this context. I would stress once again that it is not only for practical reasons but also for reasons of principle that it is wrong to introduce minimum penalties into the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure, because I believe that we should leave judges as much freedom as possible to weigh the circumstances of the specific case. In that context, I do not yet understand the Minister's comment, which says that there are probably not many or perhaps fewer criminal cases surrounding trafficking in human beings. I had asked in my first input about the criminal justice chain and the pressure on it. A fellow minister has written a beautiful book about this, which says that it needs to be strengthened. Surely we cannot adopt a legislative proposal if it turns out that it will not be enforced at all in practice because there is a shortage of staff. So I'd still like to have a reaction to that. Finally, I would like to say that I am going to listen carefully to the second term of the initiators and the Minister. Next week, after we have had our group meeting, you will hear what we are all about, but I see clear advantages and also some drawbacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u209	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiators for their answer. The SGP will support this bill as a modest but important step to hopefully reduce the misery of prostitution and trafficking in human beings. I had to smile a little, even just after Mr Dittrich's speech, to say that the authorities should not interfere with the sexual morality of the citizens. I wish. In recent years, I do not think that the government is doing anything else, for example in the field of sexual diversity, up to education and public broadcasting. So go ahead. That is another debate, let's just say. I have always found it very brave that someone like Lodewijk Asscher explicitly did not want to exclude the Swedish model, precisely because this model has led to a change of attitude in Sweden. In the words of Asscher: morally I think it is also more just that not the woman is criminalized, but the customer. I hope there are no taboos in this regard. Dare to think progressive, I say to my colleagues. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. During the debate, reference was made to the CKM report. This also affects the position of clients of prostitutes and their contribution to sexual exploitation. Through an interruption, we were talking about the use of technology. The Minister said that sessions are being held on this subject. I couldn't make a direct assessment, but that could very well be up to me, whether this is the whole recommendation in the report, including the grooming process and the offer towards customers. That is why, for the sake of certainty, I shall be tabling a motion on this point. The: Mr Van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Centre Against Trafficking in Children and Human Trafficking (CKM) has recently presented an investigation, "Defenders of Domestic Sexual Exploitation," which provides important insights into the way human traffickers operate, the vulnerability of victims and customers who reduce paid sex;]] [[Considering that the reporting shows that 82% of the victims of exploitation are approached digitally, mainly through regular websites with sex contact ads, and that online platforms play an important role not only in the grooming process but also in the supply towards customers;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the best possible access to this knowledge for investigation services and to carry out further targeted research into the role of technology in the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings, in accordance with the recommendations of the CKM report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34091-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u211	Thank you. I understood that Mrs Bikker would participate in the debate on the ban on cracking tomorrow, but that is not the case. Well, dear Mirjam, I enjoyed the cooperation. You're doing very well across the street. God bless.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u212	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Meijer on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u213	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to four initiators and the Minister for the answer. It is nice to get the subject from five sides exposed with, indeed, passion and emotion. We are now going to develop a new ritual: in addition to the maiden speech, the closing speech is now receiving attention. Many thanks for the pleasant collaboration, Mirjam Bikker, although it only lasted a little over two years. Mr Segers began by replying and others followed him by putting the seriousness of the problem of sexual exploitation down again. I can follow him, the initiators and the minister, so let's agree on that. Our ways separate themselves when it comes to the means used to deal with this. In some speeches, from behind the table there and from behind our own tables, it seems that the problem is so bad that any means is allowed. I think we are here to check the quality of legislation, regardless of the purpose. If we have any questions about that, we should be able to ask them. I could go a long way with Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks, who indicated that you might have to deal with the subject more broadly, from the point of view of human trafficking, and that this is only a limited point of view. Mrs Kuik was perhaps still the most passionate in pointing out debt, conditional intent, conscious debt and so on. Thank you for that. It has made me a little sharper, but I do not yet know whether it is entirely satisfactory, because if we need words like'mindset' to describe it, then I do not know whether the legislation on that point is tight enough. I repeat what I said in my term. We actually want to approach this by relying on a sector that is legal in itself, but if it is not legal, you have to improve it by including the illegal part, by increasing the quality, by the industry itself working with quality marks and certification and by tackling abuse from that side rather than choosing the customer as its entry point. I hope that the Law on the regulation of sex work allows for such a broader discussion here. Mrs Kuik indicated that this point would take some time and that it was delayed. Yes, I do not feel responsible for declaring this subject controversially. I'd have liked to have it here soon, but I'll wait and see. Mr Van Nispen has said very well about the willingness to report, but on the one hand I remain a little on Mrs De Boer's side. On the other hand, let us perhaps await the evaluation on this point. Whether or not the law is passed, information on this point is important, I think, in all cases. Before I get to what I'm going to advise my group...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u214	Will you finish your speech? You're almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u215	My group had advised me to be reluctant to enter the debate today. Now I can go back to advising my group. I like the quality of the debate. Good arguments have been exchanged. I am glad that we can at least think about this for another week. That is also what I am saying to the three groups that are not here today. Next Tuesday, on behalf of my group, I or anyone else will decide on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u216	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. I call Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Many years ago I myself visited the municipality of Zwolle, Mr Meijer very well known. It is a city that at the time invested heavily in the barrier model. For the listener at home: the "barrier model" is a model in which the municipality also raises as many thresholds as possible to combat trafficking in human beings. Nevertheless, the D.A. said about this: please, take the last keystone, the client, with you. And I hear that again in the opinion of the College of Attorney General. It therefore advised positively on this bill. Now I have heard the VVD say many times very sensible things, just about things that the Public Prosecutor recommends. I would like to ask whether Mr Meijer can include this opinion in his weighting of the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u218	I will certainly do so, but I have indicated that we find the most useful model to be used as an entry point for an authorised sector, taking into account this type of abuse when granting licences. But I take Mrs Bikker's encouragement to heart, especially after my fine words just now. I'll take a look at that this week, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u219	Makes it look like homework for us together. In any case, I like to pick up that glove, because I know that the Public Prosecutor advised at the time, with a legislative proposal on the licensing sector already in the making. People were well aware of that. However, it was also said, precisely because such a large proportion of prostitution takes place in the unauthorized sector: this is an additional asset, because it is different from a prostitute who may not comply with the permit requirement. This is about exploitation and abuses. Maybe we can grab that glove together. I'm in a very cooperative mood after all these praises, you understand. I would consider this to be of added value, because the Public Prosecutor's Office had a different purpose than just that law that should bring the licensing system into force in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u221	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. Mrs Bikker has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u222	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you, of course, to the proposers, for their enthusiasm and for their clarity. And most of all for their commitment to the victims of sexual exploitation. Oh, that's so necessary. In fact, the figures show that every day. So what is it important that we do everything we can to reduce it further? I wish them success on this occasion for the follow-up to the reply, but most of all I look forward to working with everyone in the discussions that are to follow and which have already been announced, with a view to a policy that really focuses on as few victims as possible. I am looking in particular at Mr Dittrich's back in the knowledge that he has probably heard me. As long as there are 3,000 victims every year and so there are eight new victims every day, even today, the customer cannot go free as far as my group is concerned, if he could actually know if there was a serious suspicion that there were abuses. That's what this bill sees. In view of the comments made by people who know all about this, the experts at the Public Prosecutor's office and the national rapporteur, I am convinced that those customers will be criminalised who deserve it. Maybe we should have that guts as First Chamber, to actually criminalize those customers who deserve it. And yes, then there will be a debate on what is a good licensing system. That's very important. We saw that in Utrecht. I myself saw at the closure of the Sand Path how difficult it is to establish a proper licensing system. But I dare to face that challenge. Let us therefore take the other way around the challenge of genuinely tackling those who willfully maintain the exploitation of vulnerable young women. I could make all sorts of small comments, but I won't. I just want to point out that the barrier model really needs to be supplemented. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for his kind explanation of this bill, but above all for his commitment to continuing to provide structural means to effectively implement that barrier model. Because what is the point of detection and what is the point of municipalities that know what they are doing in this respect? I strongly encourage the government, as well as the forthcoming Cabinets, for whom this minister is actually making all the commitments, to maintain that fight and to fight it firmly. I look forward to the follow-up in December. For me in another place and in another role. But you know, Mr President, with love and passion, I will continue to follow the debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u223	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I call Mr Rietkerk on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks from our group for the answers given by the four initiators. It has already been said by others: involved and competent in this matter. I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers given on behalf of the cabinet. Mr Segers has actually indicated what we also said in our speech, that criminal protection must be extended to cover the matters we are discussing. The estimate of the number of victims per year was quoted by Mrs Bikker, with an even higher figure of 3.000 to 7.500. So it's about something. Clarification has been made about the refinement of the Dutch barrier model in the approach and fight against trafficking in human beings and exploitation. That's what I'm talking about. I have also heard confirmation of feasibility and enforcement, whether it be aid, police or prosecutors, or the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings, who explicitly support the legislation. I do have a question for the Minister. It is true that there is a question about the implementation services. We don't have to include the files from the past. Can the Minister, on behalf of the cabinet, say that this issue is linked to the budget debate? Or does the cabinet link it to the evaluation? That would be a question. 'Cause something needs to be done. The questions on awareness and predictability have been clarified, in particular by Mrs Kuik and also by the Minister. "The serious reason to suspect" was a quote from Mrs. Kikkie. The Minister added: "Evident signals that the customer ignores." This combination appeals to our group. Then there is the question of authorized establishments or unauthorized situations. I would ask the initiators to take that into account. Mrs Nanninga also commented on it in her interruption. There was just a debate about how we see the wordings when there may be less forced situations in the licensed establishments and an assessment of them, as the Minister finally pointed out of more situations of good faith. Is this bill making a move towards those eligible situations? Developments are not standing still. Others, as well as the initiators and ministers, have referred to ongoing investigations. Situations in Sweden have been mentioned, but New Zealand has also been supplemented. I would say to the cabinet: investigate everything and preserve the good. I have also understood, however, that I would like to hear the second-term clarification of the question raised by Mr Van Dijk in the first term on the online recommendation of the CKM report to be taken into account in the investigations. I'm very curious about the verdict on the motion. I felt a kind of commitment there, but apparently Mr Van Dijk has not yet. I'll keep an eye on that in the second term. Finally. A number of hooks and eyes, but, as far as we are concerned, a step forward. With the clarification in the answers of the initiators and the minister, I am going to my group with an optimistic feeling. I would like to say to Mrs Bikker that you are happy with the votes and perhaps the optimism there is expressed by our group. Mirjam, thank you for the wonderful cooperation!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u225	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. Finally, Mr Raven has the floor on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, of course, for the answer given by the initiators and the Minister. At the beginning of this debate I was quite critical on behalf of the OSF. I must say that thanks to the input of colleagues and the discussions and debates that have taken place among the initiators, a number of things have become much clearer. That's a good thing to see. In my speech at first, I said very clearly that I missed the improvement in the self-reliance of the position of the prostitutes, of the victims. We have heard in the debates and in the reply that a number of points of very practical importance that I have put forward on this subject, a label with all kinds of facilities, are going to come back somewhere, perhaps in the Sex Work Regulation Act. That was an important loss that arose for our clarity. I also missed the clarity of policy when it comes to criminalising customers with regard to slave labour, child labour and the use of products that we all know is happening. The response of the initiators to this point was clarifying. They have made it very clear that direct contact is very important. The third point I mentioned was the legal sustainability. It looks like legal hair clovering. I hope this is not so bad in practice. I mentioned three points that I missed. The fourth point is: what am I missing when we do not adopt the law? Perhaps you could go into that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u227	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That's the case. Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u228	I've made an omission. I wanted Mrs. Bikker........................................................................................................................... Oh, too bad, thank you for the good cooperation. I would like to do that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u229	Thank you. Initiators and Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. Mr Segers, Mrs Kuik, Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Kuik, which of you can I give the floor first? Mr Segers? I shall now give the floor to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm allowed to speak on behalf of all the initiators. I hope to be able to deal with the questions and comments. If I miss one more question, I'd like to hear it. Many thanks on our part for a very special, worthy, beautiful exchange of views. I found it a very nice mixture of emotion with matter, emotion with the people who are in an exploitation situation, which we all want to put an end to. But it was also a nice debate about legal precision and I thought that was a very nice combination. As far as I'm concerned, that underlines the right of the First Chamber to exist. The most striking example was Mr Dittrich. He put it out of his own practice and said: we encountered a situation that so evidently showed exploitation and slavery; I could prosecute all kinds of people who were responsible for it, but with the customers who came, I could not much, while they knew, could have known if there was a serious suspicion that this was really not right. That is actually my answer to Mr Raven's question: what are we going to miss if this law is not adopted? That! We're missing that. We hold everyone responsible, we give everyone a responsibility somewhere in that barrier and chain approach. Little by little we try to counter the practice of combating coercion and exploitation and forced prostitution. But then we stumble upon the customer who sees a woman chained up or in a dungeon, circumstances he can really know is just not in the hook; the judge looks at it but can't judge it and the Public Prosecutor can only summon such a client as a witness. While there is also a responsibility of that customer to maintain this situation. That is actually the answer to Mr Raven's question. We speak of great injustice. We've mentioned the numbers. It's thousands a year. Even if some would have been helped by this, this legislation is worth adopting, because we are actually helping people who are now sometimes in horrible conditions. I would like to stress once again that it is a result of a recommendation from the European Union, a European directive, but the National rapporteur on Human Trafficking has underlined it. He asked for this. The D.A.'s also saying it's gonna be okay. It is precisely with the combination of intent and this form of guilt that the D.A. can get out of the way. And the police have also underlined it. It says: this would help us in an approach where this is not the panacea. It is not the miracle cure that suddenly puts an end to coercion and exploitation. But it does help in the search to learn step by step from practice, learn from mistakes and learn from successes. It also helps to learn from other countries, because we really need that international comparison. We need to learn one step at a time and see what can be done better. In that step-by-step approach, this can also be a step. It is not the step, not the only step, not the step that puts an end to all misery, but a step in the right direction. The aim is not to underline that, too, and I say this to Mrs De Boer in order to get as many people convicted as possible. It's also about enforcement and capacity. Those are real questions for the cabinet. We have underlined this once again from the Chamber with an amendment to last year's budget. At that time, we said that there should be extra money, which is specifically earmarked, because if it goes to the big pile, it stays a bit, because it is a repeated crime. You have to put very conscious time, attention and energy into it and spend money on it, if you can finally get it out of the water. If you're not looking for it, you won't find it. We want this to be sought. The purpose of this law is not to fine or put as many customers behind bars as possible. The aim is much more to make customers preventively aware of their responsibility, to ensure that they too have their eyes open and report much earlier than they do now. Mrs De Boer asked: is that number of reports not going to fall? First of all, there is the set of standards. We say: we really need to set that standard. A customer also has a responsibility. If we rely on the notifications at Report Crime Anonymous, or other reports, then the customers are not the largest group or the first group reporting. That's a lot more bystanders. The number of notifications made by customers can therefore not decrease much. That number can't fall enormously, because they don't report much. In fact, it could go up. If they keep their eyes open, know that there is a responsibility there, know that they too must keep their eyes open, they can report sooner than they do now. Mr Dittrich was right to say that these are obvious cases. I think that is an important word in this debate. It's gotta be pretty obvious. We talked about the provideability. A lot of questions have been asked; legitimate questions. We also dealt with them in the Lower House. We put it on ourselves. It is quite right that they have been placed in the middle of this debate as well. These are obvious cases of exploitation. It is indeed important to distinguish between the authorised part and the unauthorized part of the prostitution industry. The Minister pointed that out, too. Mrs Nanninga asked if you can assume that if you go to the authorised part, to a legal institution, there is no question of an exploitation situation. You can reasonably assume that. You have to say that clearly. But the Minister was right to say that you cannot categorically rule out the possibility of exploitation in an authorised institution. The bar is only many times higher there than in the non-granted part. If you get into the unauthorized part through three phone calls, in a basement box, that bar is really lower than if you go to an authorized facility, which controls the police and where paramedics come in. Then it would be weird to assume that a customer is convicted of something the police don't see and some aid workers who sit on top of it every day with their noses on. In that situation, therefore, there is a real distinction between the authorised part and the unauthorized part, without being categorically able to say so. I'll repeat that to the Minister. There is no Berlin wall in between, because there may also be obvious cases of exploitation in the authorised part. But that must be very obvious cases. Then really only the design variant is sufficient. That was also the text that former colleague Marith Volp uttered in the House of Representatives and which I am only saying here once again. She said: "You can imagine that a customer who uses the services of a prostitute in the licensed part of the sector can reasonably assume that there is no victimisation." I'll repeat that to her again. I also think it would be a good idea for the Acts to state this quite clearly and clearly once again. By far the most difficult questions came from the legally well-informed members of the Upper Chamber, about 273f and g. How do they relate to each other? That's a complicated situation. The Minister has responded to this. As far as I am concerned, he has explained this well, but the key point is that both 73f and 73g exploit an exploitation situation. It is therefore a question of the exploitation situation. 73f then looks at the human trafficker who maintains or causes the exploitation situation. Then you have all the ingredients that have to prove human trafficking, but the customer benefits from the exploitation situation and does not report it. As I said, he benefits from that exploitation situation. That's the difference. That's right, there's a difference. It's not completely separate. They both see the exploitation situation, but one causes it and is entirely responsible for it, and the other takes advantage of it. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u231	Let me get this straight. What if there's a lawsuit against a prostitute? The district attorney says it's obvious, you should have known you had sex with a victim of human trafficking. The lawyer argues in defence: yes, listen to me, this takes place in a certain context, and in another case it has not been proven that there was trafficking in human beings. Can you imagine that this prostitute could still be convicted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u232	I find it difficult to speak very categorically about this, but trafficking in human beings must take advantage of it. The situation must be proven. That bar's pretty high. Therefore, the number of convictions for trafficking in human beings is also relatively low. Even if there are several declarations and several cases, it does not always lead to a conviction, because there too the bar is quite high. The burden of proof is really on the D.A.'s side, and that's how the judge looks at it. It's about taking advantage of it. I cannot properly assess whether there can be an obvious exploitation situation in which trafficking in human beings is not proven, but the customer can ultimately be convicted. I find that complicated. I cannot rule out the fact that this exploitation situation is so obvious that there really is exploitation, but that it is so difficult to prove that trafficking in human beings does not lead to a conviction on that point. But that exploitation situation is still equally evident, for which a customer is ultimately responsible. So I can't rule that out, but in the end it's really up to the D.A. and the judge to reach a fair verdict in that grey area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u233	But is this difficulty, the complexity of this system, not precisely caused by the initiators, by including in the legal text a reference to the trafficking of human beings article, while at the same time saying that not all the components of the trafficking in human beings article need to be proven?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u234	Because they both see an exploitation situation. They're both focused on an exploitation situation. That's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u235	Yes. But the difference is: if human trafficking is not proven in one situation, how can your legal text prove trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u236	I call Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u237	This is my best know. The situation of exploitation must be clear. But then the responsibility of the trafficking in human beings must also be evident. So the exploitation situation is exploitative, that must be absolutely clear, but the degree of responsibility of the alleged human traffickers for that exploitation situation must be proven under Article 273f, while the benefit of that exploitation situation is proven under Article 273g. The situation of exploitation must be clear. I think that's the most clear way to explain it. So the responsibility for achieving that exploitation situation may not have to be proven in the case of that one alleged human trafficking. Suppose he's acquitted, then maybe other people are responsible for that exploitation situation. Then perhaps this man or woman is not responsible, but there is an exploitation situation. I hope that I will bring Mr Dittrich with me after my explanation. Actually, I thought it was pretty clear myself. Questions have been asked about the quickscan and about other legislation. Mrs Baay asked very explicitly about rape and sexual assault. These are rather precarious situations that we are talking about. It's a little uncomfortable to talk about that, but still... that's what the quickscan sees on it. In this context, this legislation has been looked at. It has been examined whether there is a degree of involuntaryness in the same way as in the context of sexual services. In the latter case, it may be that someone is forced to step into it, eventually to work in a brothel, while the action itself may not be involuntary. It could be. So the insertion, the eventually going to work there, there could be a threat behind it. It may be that someone is at work at some point and says: this is my job, this is my life and I make the best of it. It does not have to be obvious that there is involuntaryness. At least it's not involuntary for that client. Rape is always involuntary. So there's a difference and that's what the quick scan looked at. What about the existing legislation? How does it succeed in underlining that in cases of a customer's responsibility and in cases where you say that a customer could be held responsible, with existing legislation and ultimately punishing someone for that? The quickscan says that this is not enough; that is not possible. The result of the quickscan was that this law does indeed have added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u238	I saw Mrs Baay look a little hard, too. I had the idea that this wouldn't make it much clearer, at least not for me. I had also made the point that, in my view, it is precisely in the situation where someone is forced to work in prostitution that it is trafficking in human beings. I think that if someone continues to work as a sex worker on a voluntary basis, the new bill will not allow you to speak of obvious signs of trafficking in human beings if you then visit this sex worker. At least I don't see that so soon. In that sense, I don't see the distinction with the signals that the quickscan suggests could lead to rape as well. But maybe I don't understand you correctly or you don't explain it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u239	I know what you're saying. At the same time, if you look at, for example, the degree of punishment and the seriousness, there is a difference. Taking a risk in a somewhat dark situation, one can say afterwards: you could have had a serious suspicion and we hold you responsible for this, is still of a different nature than in the case of rape. There the bar is higher and the penalty is higher. That really is a different context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u240	We agree. But for the sake of clarity, do you agree with me that if anyone is ever forced to work in prostitution but continues voluntarily, it is difficult to imagine that there are such obvious signs that this bill is criminalising the customer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u241	That too depends on the context. Maybe it's not the one who's victim, the one who's out. But there can still be a context of a garage box, of three phone calls, of someone who is on the lookout and who is extremely intimidating, which a judge claims to weigh heavily, without the victim expressing himself. Anyway, I refer to the quickscan that has made the comparison between existing legislation and this law and which says that this law does indeed have added value. Mr. Chairman. I guess I've answered most of the questions. Finally, I would like to point out that this law also contains an evaluation clause. That's very important. This has to do with the fact that we learn from such an international comparison, but also that we will have to gain experience with this law and other legislation. We will have to see whether this actually adds value, whether it actually leads to more reports and whether we can more often prevent or end miserable situations of coercion and exploitation. We have that hope. That has led us as proposers to come to this law. We have indeed come a long way; several of your Members have referred to it. We've been going along with this law for a number of years. The signature has also changed. But what I have tasted with everyone who has somehow been involved in this law is a number of spiritual fathers and mothers who have recommended to come to this legislation, people who have taken the first initiative, People who have taken over, but also you who have taken part in the deliberations and the debate on this issue are a shared desire to do everything we can, including with legislation, including criminal law, in addition to the administrative approach we will have with the Sex Work Law, to prevent, combat and put an end to it. If that were to work, if we could contribute to that, then the profession of parliamentarians, whether it is in the Second or the First Chamber, is a very nice one. Thank you for today and for your cooperation. I'm making a point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u242	Thank you, Mr Segers. Then I look at the remaining three proposers. Do any of you wish to speak at this time? Mrs. Kuik doesn't. Mr Van Nispen didn't. Mrs Kuik, do you wish to speak? No, I didn't. I now give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u243	Mr. Chairman. Mr Segers has rightly spoken fine words on behalf of the initiators. That's why I think I can keep it short. I'll pick up the questions and walk by the stuff that's left behind. I shall begin with the main issue, namely the importance of focusing more on the fight against trafficking in human beings and all the terrible consequences for the victims and mention it all. It is obvious, I think, that it is important to stress that this cabinet is making a huge effort on many fronts to step up the fight against trafficking in human beings. In terms of capacity, we are doing so with a number of decisions in the budget, so that there is still growth in the years to come. We have also, of course, committed ourselves to strengthening the police capacity and the state's attorney's office. At the same time, we are on the threshold of a new cabinet, and that is why I do not want to anticipate too much. But if I look closely at a number of election programmes, I can see that there are also conscious choices being made about strengthening the rule of law to make sure that this kind of abuses are combated more effectively. This means, I expect, that we will focus on more detection and more prosecution in the broad field of trafficking in human beings. I think that will be the result of, among other things, the amendment tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Asscher specifically on this earmarked budget. We expect more people and eventually more things. Specifically for this bill, we have made a round of rounds along a number of bodies, including to ask them about their implications for implementation. What do you expect? In fact, it is said on the basis of two elements that, in the view of the enforcement organisations, this will only lead to a limited increase in the number of cases, because this is a hit-and-run crime. It will therefore have to be carried out on the basis of controls or as a by-catch of the wider human trafficking investigations. On the other hand, you also want there eventually to be a greater appeal to the responsibility of customers and by warning them that they can no longer wash their hands in innocence... You want that to lead to... Well, there is a choice to make, eh. You can choose to go for the shady circuit or for prostitution visits where I... how do you say? Visit where I have more reason to assume that it is bona fide on the basis of certification and license et cetera et cetera. With that, I think, I say directly in the direction of Mrs De Boer... she explicitly asked about someone who is going to an authorised institution. Well, the client can basically assume it's okay there. I think that's good. I think she herself used the term "in the base." There may be all kinds of exceptions to the rule, but this is the basis. Mrs De Boer also asked if I could come back in writing to support sex workers in corona time. It's about financial support, but it's also about combating abuses and things that you see going under the radar. I can promise that. I'll do that with the Department of Social Affairs. My colleague, the Secretary of State for Justice, will probably be involved. Finally, Mr Van Dijk's amendment. Oh, I'm sorry, it's the First Chamber, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u244	We do not have the right of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u245	I'm out of line. The wish is the father of thought. With an amendment, there will always be more capacity towards police and justice. You see, my heart is beating faster. But it is not yet that far; just wait until the end of the formation. I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I'm good with it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u246	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-22-eerstekamer-3.u247	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I have heard the Chamber correctly and I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. I also propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled. Several words of appreciation have been spoken to Mrs Bikker. I'm glad I don't have to say goodbye to Mrs Bikker yet. In the course of the coming weeks, I will return to the farewell of a number of outgoing Members of Parliament, at a time when there may be time, space and attention to which it deserves to be said goodbye. I shall suspend the sitting for the night until 23 March 2021 at 9.30 a.m. I would like to thank all the Members, the initiators, the Minister and the staff who made this meeting possible. I wish you all at home.
