ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister. I'm glad you're back with us. The next item is the amendment of a number of education laws relating to adjustments in the field of transition from primary education to secondary education (35671). We've come to the reply and rejoinder. That's the second term. Before the summer recess we discussed this extensively. Now let's move on to that. There are ten speakers on the side of the Chamber. The first is Mrs Westerveld of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I'd like to give her the floor. It's the first time we've talked here today for all of us, so actually maiden speeches are being held. But, yes, that's not how we're gonna do it, because otherwise we're never gonna have a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	I call Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is very special and nice to be in this new room and to talk about a number of educational laws. Because working on education legislation or legislation in general sometimes seems a little ungrateful. We have wasted a great deal of time preparing, just like the Minister and his support, but we do not see any major headlines, this is not a trending topic and we do not see many journalists, although it is one of the most important tasks that we can perform here. I really like to talk about education legislation the first time I've been here. Mr. Chairman. Before the recess, we had a nice substantive debate on this law on the flow test. There are many different opinions about this law. That's why it was good that we could think about it a little longer. The Minister also sent an extensive letter stating that he was not happy with the amendment tabled by Mr Kwint and I. In doing so, we are also applying the law thoroughly; I am sure to admit that. We still do not think that the legislative proposal we have here is sufficient, because it is not clear to us why the complete privatisation of the flow test is the solution to the hybrid system we have created. As far as we are concerned, the Minister should look for other solutions. Mr. Chairman. During the debate I asked a number of questions about tests for students with disabilities. Those questions were not answered in the first period, or at least not sufficiently. I would therefore like to refer them to the Minister again. It's about the changes in the key. The government must ensure a Braille version of the test, because this test requires specialist knowledge and has quite a cost. This would be financially unfeasible for market players. However, market participants must offer suitable versions for all other pupils with disabilities. I would like to ask the Minister how he is sure that will happen. How can he be sure that the market players really have the right expertise? Because it takes quite a lot of knowledge and expertise to have really good, customized versions of the test for students with different limitations. I shall also table a motion on this matter. I am waiting for the Minister's answer from later on, but just to be sure, we will be happy to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this change of law abolishes the Central Final Test via the CvTE and that the offer of final tests is only made by private parties;]] [[noting that the government remains responsible for offering a Braille version of the test because this test requires specialist knowledge and is costly;]] [[noting that all other pupils with disabilities are required to offer suitable versions for such pupils;]] [[Whereas there are pupils who learn in a different way because of their limitation and for whom specific tailor-made tests are important because otherwise this leads to inequality of opportunity;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and ensure that an appropriate final test is developed for all pupils and, if this is not done by market players, to carry out this task itself;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35671-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's kind of crazy, after a few months, all of a sudden, with a whole summer period in between, to pick up a law treatment. At least I know I had to dig back myself, like: what was it like before the summer? Moreover, and I think I have already said this before the summer, congratulations to the Minister for saying that if there are so many things, let us take the time to sort things out and think through the implications of things. I believe that this does justice to the serious task we are doing together here. There are a few things left for me: a few individual points and the amendment on which much of the discussion went before the summer. In addition to what Mrs Westerveld said about the customized keys: this is, of course, something crazy. We allow commercial parties to make money by checking, but at the moment when something is going to cost extra money, we as a government always say: well, then we take that part. That is actually very strange, that you say to commercial parties: all you have to do is do the part where you can make money, and we remain responsible for the rest. But I do share Mrs Westerveld's concerns about the accessibility of the test materials. Another separate point concerned, inter alia, the availability of declarations of admissibility for access to special education. That remains a matter of concern to us. The Minister says: yes, it will be fine. Well, I appreciate his optimism. I'd like this watched. It is not a very far-reaching proposal, but because it is extremely important for a small group of students to receive such a declaration of admissibility in time, it seems to me appropriate to continue to follow this critically. That is why we have the next proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are concerns about the timely issuing of declarations of admissibility for pupils passing on to practical education or VMBO with learning path support;]] [[Whereas timely issuing of a declaration of admissibility is necessary in order to avoid red tape and possible drop-out of pupils;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor specifically whether declarations of admissibility for pupils passing through practical education or VMBO with learning path support are issued on time so that there are no implementation problems in the application for secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35671-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	Another point we discussed is the development of teachers' knowledge in the field of advice. The Minister has said a lot about this, but yes, we are not there yet. In short, we don't think it's enough. The role of school advice, of counseling by a teacher, has only increased. And apart from that, as far as we are concerned, doing justice to students, seeing their learning development and being able to judge well is simply an essential part of teaching. Every teacher should be able to control that. And so making this part of the pabo-training is an indispensable step. And since we are happy to lay down essential steps, we have also tabled a motion for this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that drawing up a school advice is not an integral part of all pabos;]] [[Whereas the school advice is based on the advice of several teachers;]] [[Considering that each teacher in primary education should therefore know how to obtain the school advice and have knowledge of how to deliver an opinion on the level of a student;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with Pabo's School Advice, to make training a permanent part of college year 2022-2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint, Mr Peters, Mr Westerveld and Mr Paul.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35671-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	Finally, I regret to say one more amendment, Mr President. I apologise for going over my speaking time with that. Of course, we have looked closely and comprehensively at this, also in view of the letter sent by the Minister. And the question is, of course, what keeping a hybrid system of public and private scrutiny, public and private providers, is going to mean for supervision. If our amended amendment and the law succeed, the CvTE will be responsible for one of the tests and for monitoring. Well, that makes control and supervision more clear for us, and we are responding to one of the concerns that the Minister had before the summer, namely the fragmentation of the available knowledge about several institutions. As far as we are concerned, the other option, total privatisation, is simply not a viable way forward. And I understand that the mix of tasks that the CvTE is about to have may encounter ideological objections for some people, but as far as we are concerned it is a non-commercial task; there is no need to make a profit, there is no need to gain market share, so we do not think that this double task of the CvTE needs to be bitten. Finally, I would like to say to the Minister that, regardless of whatever law we adopt and whatever form it takes, something really needs to be done about the development of knowledge and the transfer of knowledge on this particular point. If dividing the people who know about this between two organisations means that the two organisations are becoming too small, the conclusion, I think, is that there are actually a little too few people who understand this very much. So I would like to ask him what he intends to do to increase that knowledge development on testing in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	Fine, thank you. Then Mrs Paul from the VVD Group. I'd like to receive your motions, Mr. Kwint. The amendment seems to have been tabled, but we have not yet seen it. Let's find out. Mrs Paul, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few weeks before the recess, we had the first part of this debate, a nice debate about the flow test. For me, it was an extra beautiful moment I'd never forget, because it was my maiden speech. As the chairman just said, today is actually a bit of a maiden speech for all of us. But that really was a very special moment. During the recess I often remembered it. All the teachers I mentioned in my first speech popped back in my head. Teachers who taught me everything that gave me their trust and gave me confidence. Unfortunately, not all children have that experience. I mentioned earlier from research carried out by the Education Inspectorate that one in three schools refuses to update school advice, even if there is a higher test result. Let me be clear: I understand very well that a test is a snapshot and that a teacher has an image in several years. He or she has a clear picture of the child's working position, whether the child prefers to work with his hands or with his head, whether it is ready for more independence, etc. etc. You should know that during the recess I spoke to several teachers about this, because they were wondering if I understood their role in that process. I can confirm that I understand that very well. I'm not gonna take anything off of that either. But if we consider all of this, it can't be that children from the more vulnerable families, children from outside the Randstad, children with a migration background, and within those groups more often girls than boys, get fewer opportunities. As far as I'm concerned, we should never let that happen. Mr. Chairman. In order to bring this right and ensure equal opportunities for these children in a high school that matches their qualities and ambitions, I have asked for the law to be amended. I am extremely pleased that the Minister seems to be in favour of this, because with my proposal we are doing justice to the teacher's professionalism, while at the same time ensuring that every child has the opportunity to go to the school that best suits him or her. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Segers of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr President, here I am again. So far, I have scored a hundred percent in plenary debates in the new Chamber. That's very special. I also like to see you again...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u11	Hang in there; hang in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u12	...in this place, in this room. I also had to dig, when it came to this bill: what was the debate again? I knew there was something about an amendment from the SP and GroenLinks. I've been rereading. I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply. I particularly had questions about the comparability of the tests. I must say that the answer on that point was reassuring. I have one more point on which I would like to table a motion, namely parental involvement. Not all parents know the way. Not all parents are equally mature. I would like a hand-out to be developed especially for them. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas not all parents are equally empowered and, for various reasons, do not always know the way to school;]] [[noting that the school advice procedure should be included in the school guide, but that it does not specify what steps parents can take to obtain more information or to discuss the opinion;]] [[calls on the Government, together with representatives of parent associations and foundations, to develop hand-outs to strengthen the involvement of less mature parents and parents who, for other reasons, do not always know the way to school,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Kwint, Mr Peters, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Bishop, Mr Paul, Mr Westerveld and Mr Bertema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35671-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u13	I checked before the meeting to see if everyone remembered that he had put his name underneath, and everyone still knew that and is still behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u14	The memories of MPs go back farther than we often think. That gives the citizen courage again. Thank you. I'm glad you're so succinct. I have heard from Mr Peters of the CDA Group, who is going to make it even shorter and more pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u15	No, Mr. Chairman, I can't, but I don't think I need seven minutes. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply and for the letter of appreciation for the amendments. I have to say, I actually thought they both were pretty convincing. The original Bishop/Peters/Van Meenen amendment, which I am also under, could be adapted in this respect so that schools remain comparable, but the freedom of schools is reduced as little as possible. If it's okay, it's being crafted now, so it's gonna be okay. In this house, we're pretty good at telling each other in high voice what needs to be better and what needs to be different. My view is that schools should be able to decide for themselves as much as possible how they organise education, but the Minister has convinced me of the importance of comparing schools, and that is also possible, as far as I am concerned. After the answer in the first period, the point remains that I agree that under-advisation should be given a place and advice anyway in the curriculum of the pabo; Mr Kwint was already ahead of me on that point in the first period. That's why I liked to sign his motion. I myself, together with the VVD, submit a motion to monitor the predictive value of the school advice. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that secondary schools are linked to primary schools to the extent to which pupils are still at the level of the school advice over time, but it is not clear to what extent elementary schools in this feedback have the incentive to review their school advice if there are certain trends to be discovered;]] [[Whereas it is important for primary schools to analyse this type of information properly in order to improve the predictive value of their advice;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the schools in the foundational education and other educational organisations, to monitor the feedback of secondary schools coupled with an analysis to increase the predictive value of school advice, and to report to the Court on this for budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Paul.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35671-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u16	This time not Paul Peters, who is following all our debates on Twitter and who, when we do this together, says: "Hooray, I have submitted something again." Say hello to Paul Peters in this case. Another motion, which concerns the concentration of tasks at the CvTE and the evaluation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the present legislative proposal will result in a concentration of tasks with the College for Keys and Examinations;]] [[calls on the Government to take into account the consequences of the concentration of tasks at the CvTE with regard to the flow tests p.o., to review this on an ongoing basis, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof in the event of negative consequences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Peters.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35671-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u17	Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. We can talk in this house about consulting, flow tests and all that kind of stuff until we weigh oneself, but in the end that's not what this is about. It is, of course, about excellent lessons by excellent teachers. And that should have and keep our focus, now and in the foreseeable future. Too many children still do not learn enough reading, writing and mathematics. We know scientifically how to teach them all that in the base, but we don't. And that's just bad. So my call is and remains: focus and every day a little bit better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you. Then Mr De Hoop of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal on the flow tests, which is again before us in the second term, regulates the bottlenecks in the procedure, the timetable for school advice and the transition of p.o. to be removed. The idea would be that it could benefit from improving the equality of opportunity for pupils. In addition to Mrs Paul's beautiful maiden speech, I can remember a very beautiful metaphor by colleague Van Meenen. He said about a car that you fix: you can just get rid of it now and then and buy a new one. That feeling remains with the Labour Party in this case too in this debate. This legislative proposal provides for all pupils from the 8th grade to join a secondary school at the same time. That must be a fair opportunity by doing so at the same time. That sounds positive but it also limits children in the time they have by pushing it forward. The concern that the Labour Party still has and which incited the SP and GroenLinks concerns the comparability of tests. That makes the amendment heavy for us. The last point we mentioned in the previous debate is that the decision of the Caribbean Examination Council is too non-binding. Moreover, the problem is that Article 24 of the CEC Decision contains six subjects, while the article-by-article explanatory notes are sufficient for five subjects. The condition of timely registration also raises problems. Indeed, that scheme did not enter into force until 1 August 2021. This makes it very tight for interested students, who generally arrange everything for their studies in the European Netherlands in July and August. My questions to the Minister on this point are: how do you look at it now and are you prepared to adapt the decision so that the graduates can be sure of the possibility of passing on to further education in the European Netherlands? If not, we are also considering a motion on that point. I'll file it just in case. Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party sees that the inequality of opportunity in education is frighteningly great. Especially in places where education can make a big difference in children's lives, this problem is the greatest. If we really want to change that, then next to this bill, if it gets a majority at all, a radical change must come, giving you as a child time to find out who you are, what you can do. Education for children should no longer serve as a sorting machine or obstacle course, but as a bouncy cushion, so that every child can make his dream a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you. Then Mr Van Meenen of D66. Oh, Mr. De Hoop forgot to make his motions. You're gonna have to file that, buddy! Why don't you go back? Mr Van Meenen, you can sit down again, because Mr De Hoop has forgotten to make his motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u21	It's just been a vacation for me too, Mr. Chairman! I'll file the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u22	It's still a little vacation for you, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u23	Haha! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government has constitutional responsibility for quality education and Cito Foundation has the legal task of developing the Central Final Test on assignment and under the direction of the College for Keys and Exams;]] [[Considers that the comparability of final and flow tests is compromised by the fact that schools can also choose to involve the test in private parties;]] [[calls on the government to remove this possibility from the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is of great importance for graduates in secondary education in the Caribbean Netherlands that they can be sure of the possibility of passing on to further education in the European Netherlands;]] [[noting that the Caribbean Examinations Council (CXC) decision has been formulated too voluntarily on the clustering of subjects so that they can correspond to the profiles in secondary education in order to ensure these flow possibilities also for the graduates concerned;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the decision CXC in such a way as to ensure that the qualified persons can be sure of the possibility of passing on to further education in the European Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35671-21]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35671-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u24	Sure. Get back in the car.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u25	Back up, yeah!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. It is good that on the second day we can have a substantive debate together, or at least a debate along the lines of the content. Let's get some more. Mr. Chairman. The fight for equality of opportunity has many fronts. How, for example, do we prevent delays in the youngest child? We must not forget the shortage of teachers. I also mention inclusivity. Another important front is the transition from primary to secondary education. In this context, this debate is taking place and this law has been tabled. It focuses on what is the most important aspect for me: one central login moment. At the moment there are two central reporting moments, which leads to inequality of opportunity. The question now is whether this law is the best way to get to one login moment. My group says: no, that is not the best way, because the notification time is being pushed forward by this law. That's because the finals are moving forward. This means a loss of educational time and therefore increasing inequality of opportunity. Is it necessary? Can't there be another way to get one login moment? Yeah, you can. We don't need a law for that at all. That is only the will of education to do so. The current law already makes that possible. There is no reason to have two login moments at this time. That could also be one moment later in the year. That therefore means that my group is very critical of this law and considers it to be superfluous. There are aspects that we will support. Several motions and amendments have been tabled. We will try to make the law as good as possible, but the chances of us voting for the law are very low. In order to reach that one login moment, I have the next motion. Oh, maybe there's an interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u27	I would just like to understand what Mr Van Meenen is saying here about bringing forward the registration moment. I think we're talking about a month and a half. I understand that the Minister has discussed this extensively with representatives of the profession, with teachers and with others from the field of work. It needs to be weighed in. You can say that when those tests take place in March, a well-balanced judgment can already be formed. The other side of the coin to be taken into account is that the receiving parties, i.e. secondary education, must also have sufficient time to prepare themselves for the flows of students who are to come, schedule and everything related to it. So my question is, how do you look at that trade-off? Why do you not take that last aspect with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u28	The last thing I don't take with me, I fight. I am well aware of the situation with regard to applications for secondary education. I worked there for 16 years as principal and driver, so I know that transition. I think there is a risk in giving a lot of time to secondary education. I have also summarised it in the debate: secondary education is given far too much time to put every child exactly in a box. The less time there is for this, the more likely we will actually have patience with children and that we will actually use the first years of secondary education for the children who need it to get them into place. So I even see a risk in bringing it forward. I do not think that there is any reason to bring it forward either from the organizational point of view of secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Van Meenen is, of course, entitled to his opinion, but I am nevertheless opposed to the views of many representatives with whom the Minister and his team have spoken. I also feel that a number of discussions are mixed up. In the context of the flow test and the determination of an equal time for all pupils, I cannot imagine that one and a half months of bringing forward the opportunity gap is going to increase, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u30	Okay. Mrs Paul is also entitled to her own opinion, but I am opposed to that. I think every second counts for students, especially in the transition to and preparation for secondary education. As far as I'm concerned, it could go even further back in the school year. In other words, the main proceeds of this law would be one central notification moment. The fact that there is now a second registration time after the opinion has been amended seriously reduces the chances of pupils receiving an updated advice and also reduces the chances of there being enough room at a school where they can go. I think that is an essential element. Just... I think the solution is a horse medicine. It could be done in the current circumstances. I have spoken with Mr Peters about this from his own experience in primary education, and it is only a limited period of time that will allow those children to be properly placed in secondary education. Apart from that, I think we should make a much bigger move. I find it rather odd that at a time when we are working on a formation, in which we have even written things together in that famous document and in which the cabinet is in a demissionary state, we are still dealing with such a law. That is another aspect, but that does not alter the substance. I actually think that we should make that discussion much bigger. I'm afraid the adoption of such a law will take that discussion away for years again. I wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u31	I think that because of those last few sentences my technical question... I am also entitled to an opinion, but perhaps also to an enlightening question. Mr Van Meenen says that the law is actually superfluous, but we are going to support some things and table amendments and motions to further improve it. When I hear him say that, I think, "Why the hell would he vote against it?" If it is unnecessary, but not bad, and if he improves a number of things with amendments, I would say: vote in favour. Perhaps he can explain to me even more clearly why he is opposed to this, other than that he is of the great gesture that should take place at another time or place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u32	I did say that last thing, but that's a side issue for me. We can always have this bigger discussion, and I think we should have it with each other. Much more patience with children and taking much more time, because many children need more time. We will have that discussion, even if this law is passed. My argument is: the core element of this law is for me that there will be one login moment. That's the most important thing we're gonna take care of here. But I do not think that this is being properly dealt with, so I say that we can do that in the current situation. I don't need an amendment because I don't need the whole law. Education, which Mr Peters will agree with me, could now, with the current regulations, decide to have only one application per year. It's possible. That doesn't take this law. And so in a moment, when I speak, in a motion, I call on the government to do something about it. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr. Van Meenen is right: a lot of things can be done by law, but they just don't happen. Not for years. Maybe that's the point: we really can't regulate it and we can't manage it together. Moreover, many delays would not have to exist if we were to give these excellent lessons, of which we also know how to do so. I do think that the argument that it can be done without law might not necessarily be a reason not to try it in this way if that does not happen. But I leave that to Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u34	I understand. But if this law were to regulate that registration moment, I'm just saying what would be June 1st, fine. Then I'd sign this law right away. Then it would be even better with a few amendments. Something about Cito, something about the pabo. It's all good. But this law doesn't. This law actually brings forward the login moment. The key is pulled forward and thus also the login moment. I don't like that, and that's why I'm resisting the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u35	To sum up, the reason for voting against this is, in fact, that you think that the test and the registration should be in June?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u36	Well, at least it shouldn't be brought forward. Yeah, that's right. I say this from my own experience, and I think you actually agree with me. Anyway, I won't use that, but you've been the director yourself and you've told me how that transition went around you. Well, you didn't take four months to do that, I seem to remember. But maybe I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u37	I can confirm that. Things can do a lot better, even without those things, but it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u38	No, but then the question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr. Peters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u40	I don't have to fill in Mr. Van Meenen's words. The question is whether he thinks this is the best way to do it. This is the way I think we can at least do it. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr President, I see that there is another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u42	Any more interruptions? Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u43	Along the lines of content, huh? These are substantive debates. Oh, it's delicious!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u44	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u45	Do I hear Mr Van Meenen say that schools get more time to put students in a booth in this way, and that's bad? If that is indeed his position, isn't that evidence of a great deal of distrust of schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u46	That's not mistrust, that's just a fact. We see that in recent years this transition from primary to secondary education has become an increasingly important moment. It has become an increasingly decisive moment. If you look at the developments in education, at the offer there is, we are not saying quite Chamberwide here for nothing: there must be more patience for many more students; there must be broader bridge classes. We are also encouraging this for a reason in secondary education. That doesn't just have to do with corona. This has to do with the fact that more and more schools are becoming categorial, that there are fewer and fewer bridge classes. The space and time we give to schools for this categorization and put it in a booth I always call that a shufflebox I want to limit. However, the most important thing is that I want to keep teaching time as long as possible in the 8th grade, also in order to make that transition as good as possible and to give students the best chance to perform on that test.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u47	But that time remains, because even after that advice you can simply teach and prepare a child for that next step. So I understand that Mr Van Meenen says: if we give these schools more time or rather have to make a choice, they are going to make bad use of that time. So that's separate from the broad junior class. We can talk about that some other time. Now it's about what we ask of schools, what we submit to them. And then Mr Van Meenen says: if we give them more time, they use it in a bad way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u48	Yeah, that's the consequence. My reasoning starts with the fact that I just don't like it, for educational reasons, for reasons of equality of opportunity, that that time of advice is being brought forward and that this test is being brought forward. 'Cause that's what it's all about. That's my point. And in addition, I say that it doesn't take that much time at all. What do you need to know about kids to let them in? That's not that much, especially if you're still giving those kids the space to develop when they're in broad bridge classes. Then for most children you can really organize it very well in a few weeks. An exception is made for children with disabilities and all kinds of other things. You always have to look very closely at that, but for most of the children it can be done in a very different way. I think that we should have that discussion and we should also see what we are doing now in the light of this wider debate on equality of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u49	Very briefly, last but not least, I come from an educational family, and I know how important it is for a high school to know how many students they have. That is always a very important moment for that formation. So it is important for that school to know in good time. But what I really regret is the mistrust that lies in Mr Van Meenen's words: if we give them too much time, then they deal with it in a bad way. That would be bad for a child, I find a distrust I don't quite recognize.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u50	I want to refute that, because that's not about distrust at all. I hope that Mr Segers will also see this as an example of the growing mentality of boxing in the Netherlands. More and more schools do not opt for broad bridge classes and want to select more and more precisely. That has nothing to do with mistrust, that's just an observation. I do not want to promote that further; I want to go the other way. Precisely choosing a later time of application is beneficial not only from educational time, and therefore from the perspective of equality of opportunity, but also from the idea: let's welcome these children more openly. So let's bet maximum on patience with children. Mr. Chairman. If you'll allow me, I'll get my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the current transition, p.o./vo the selection for many pupils is premature;]] [[Whereas it is in the interests of many pupils to redesign this transition;]] [[noting that as long as the current early selection system is used, this system must function optimally with one central login moment for the vo;]] [[Considers that the present legislative proposal and the advance of the final test lead to a significant loss of educational time, leading to a strengthening of inequality of opportunity;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with all those involved in the transition, to arrive at a single central registration moment as late as possible in Group 8's school year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Meenen, Bishop and De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35671-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you. Then Mr Bertema of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. As far as we are concerned, that has not changed our position. I remember that debate very well. I have also characterized it as a final piece of a ten-year fight by the PVV for the preservation of that final test, that hard cut to finally establish that final level of primary education. None of that worked. I have read that text and I was actually very pleased with it. I will give the conclusion to everyone and to the Minister, then it is immediately clear what the position of the PVV is. I said the following: The PVV Group recognizes its loss, the loss of that ten-year battle. Ten years of struggle to achieve a hard final level of primary education, ten years of struggle for the old Cito test, coupled with of course with that apprenticeship tracking system, has only resulted in the absence of a hard cut between the p.o. and the vo. That the final test is reduced to the vague flow advice, supposedly in the context of continuous growth, in which the moment of truth is pushed forward to that maleized broad secondary class. Deferral of execution. This law is against everything we've been advocating for ten years. And that's it, Mr. Chairman. We will therefore continue to go against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u53	Thank you. Then Mr Bishop of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, who apparently also came along with the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We too have come along with the move, and we hope to fulfil our task faithfully. Thank you also to Mr Beertema for the quote from his own work. That's always very nice. The Minister states that our amendment would no longer allow us to monitor the learning growth of preschoolers with recognised observation tools. That is not exactly what the amendment is doing. The amendment removes the obligation to use tests for kindergarten children. In my view, that is exactly what the Minister himself has always advocated for years. The law still lacks a clear exception for the kindergarten tests. On the basis of the bill, schools should simply take those tests. It is not enough to regulate the protection of schools against compulsory kindergarten tests only in a decision. On this point, we really need to use the legal process to close this cabinet period properly. We are still looking at the wording of the amendment. The Minister stressed the importance of reference levels. On its own, that is justified. The SGP notes that this is not the subject of discussion. The point is that in the system of reference levels we have consciously chosen a first benchmark in group 8 and not in lower, earlier, groups. How can the Minister maintain that the reference levels should also apply in lower groups? That's just not in the Reference Levels Act. Wouldn't it make much more sense to consider a broader functioning of the reference levels in relation to the discussion on the new curriculum? I think it would be wiser to do it there than to bring it in now, as if it should apply to the lower levels as well. These were the comments I wanted to make on the Minister's letter. I actually want to leave it at that. I don't have a motion. I can see you looking somewhat bewildered, but it can be, uh, that you're not filing a motion. We do have a good amendment, though, which is of some use to us. You're gonna be fine. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you. I understand that Mr Bishop was the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. The bar is high; try to get over it. The minister's gonna answer. I would like to point out that this is the Minister's second term. If the Minister is ready with this deadline, we will be ready with the debate as well. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its second term and for the invitation to continue the legal process immediately after the recess in this new Chamber. Two weeks before the summer recess, we had a very intense and intensive first-term debate. In that debate, I explained why the current situation cannot be justified. It is really necessary that we do this, in the system as we have built it together, and that is the result of choices made by the Chamber in 2013 by a large majority. In 2019, when I presented the evaluation to you, you instructed me to proceed with this law. I have spoken about this in the debate. At the request of the Chamber, I explained this in detail in the letter I sent in the week before the recess. I note that this has made some Members of Parliament aware that it is really necessary that we do something. I note, however, that Mr Van Meenen maintains his view that this law is superfluous. Frankly, I am very surprised when we look back at the evaluation, when we look back at what we saw in practice and when we think back at the major incident that occurred two years ago, where 11% of schools gave 20,000 children wrong advice. Fortunately, we were able to fix that with a huge effort. When I think back to what I was able to report to you in June, including the enormous vulnerabilities that are in the order, I can only conclude that we really need to ensure that our entire order is more clearly and transparent in order to avoid these problems in the future. We should not have two supervisors and two ways of normalizing, because that way you maintain the uncertainties and the vulnerabilities. As a result, you have a much higher risk of such incidents taking place in the future. I feel responsible for that, and I hope you feel responsible for that. I am not taking a gram of the right you have to choose not to help this law over the finish line, but that means that we are falling back on the current situation with the current vulnerabilities, with all the consequences that that can have for children and also for equality of opportunity. I'm basically only standing here for one thing. That is that through flow tests we have given a second independent to test the school advice once more. After all, we know that there is always a percentage of children, especially children in vulnerable situations, who need them to get to the right place. We note that the way in which we set it up is not working properly and that we must make a number of adjustments to the system. If we do not do so, we will assume a huge responsibility in relation to the situation that may arise for these children. I cannot justify that; therefore this law. It is, of course, up to you to decide on this. I would like to say one more thing very strongly: I am very well aware that there are also political wishes regarding how we deal with the transitions p.o. And I'm gonna deal with it. I respect that, too. I get that. But if you have not yet achieved that ideal situation, you have a huge responsibility in the situation as it is now regulated by law. For the periods when it continues and politically there are no majorities to redesign it, you have a huge responsibility to ensure that everyone who has to work on it in practice, the implementing organisations but also the schools, does the good things in the interests of the children. For that it was really necessary that we came up with some adjustments. Again: unnecessary? Look at what's happened over the past few years, so I don't think you can say that with dry eyes. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I am going to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u57	Look, that technical adjustments are being made in supervisory frameworks, for the separation of responsibilities and so on, I understand. I understand that could be an improvement. By the way, in general, I think that you have to be very careful to translate incidents directly into new policies, but that is something else. A key point is the advance of the final test in this missionary period. We have had endless discussions about this in the past and we have come to a certain system. There's a vulnerability in those two login moments. We all want to get rid of that. There would also have been a very different possibility of doing so, just in consultation with the field. The Minister is now very consciously choosing to make this proposal at this time, where everything is full of equality of opportunity and there are whole discussions about it. Early testing couldn't have been part of this law either. My point about the superfluous is just that point. It is unnecessary, because it is not necessary to arrive at one central login moment. You don't need this law for that at all. We can do that now. I'd like the Minister's response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr. Chairman. A few things in response to what Mr Van Meenen is saying here. First of all, I'm here because I've been invited by the Chamber. The Chamber has not declared this bill controversial and that is why we are dealing with it. I agree with that, by the way. I'm glad, let me put it this way, because it's your choice. Mr. Van Meenen, you are one of the reasons for the fact that we are treating this law and that I am standing here. So that can never be a reproach in our direction. That is then a reproach to yourself that you have finally agreed to this bill being dealt with. That in the first place. Let us also keep that very clear in our relations. The second is that Mr Van Meenen dismisses the system changes we are proposing here as minor technical changes. Due to the Court, a hybrid system has been created with two supervisors and two places of standardisation. This has been the result of the Court's choices not to accept my predecessor's proposal in which there would be only one test, with around it a system of assessment and monitoring and implementation. I don't have to explain it all; you know it and you know the CvTE and the Expert Group and everything around it. We have seen that this is so complicated that it creates problems. And indeed, if there's ever a problem, you shouldn't change the law right away. But we have come to the conclusion, with each other, including those who have to do this in practice, that it is intrinsically so fragile that we are not going to keep up in this way. The Expert Group also supports what is going on here. This also means that they recognise that they are not sufficiently capable of properly implementing the responsibilities they have been given under the law. In any case, it is already so complicated in terms of standardisation that they do not actually get enough data that we might even have to create some kind of emergency link before this law might be passed. That's about that part. So the Chamber can say: it doesn't have to. Again, you can; at your service. That's what you're about in the end. But at that point, we are falling back on a situation that everyone says is not sustainable. That is a choice, but I cannot take responsibility for it myself, and that is why I am standing here with this bill, on which I made the agreement with you in 2019 that I would do this. That went well with the Chamber. There were motions then and this was the outcome. The second is what Mr Van Meenen says about the one and a half months. I was going to do this later in my speech, but I'm just gonna do it now. At this point, in 2019, I said: I am holding my own. We did have 1 May in mind, but I took a swing at the arm, because I really wanted a good execution test on this. You had that test in December, and I sincerely hope that it has been read. Because you can read in the execution test that there would be no educational time lost if the test had already been taken on 1 April. That is not the case. Those teachers are professionals, I thought it was Mr Segers who also addressed you. These are people who work until the last day of the year, do their job and go full for the students. The suggestion is now being raised that at the time that test is taken earlier, in group 8 there would actually be less force until the summer period and less action would be taken. Nothing could be further from the truth. Again, look at the execution key. This is actually like saying to the professionals in practice: we don't really trust you if that test is taken earlier. There's something else. The vo really needs a little time. I know the N=1 experience of Mr Van Meenen from his own period. But the vo really needs more time to do so in a good way, even when it comes to their formation and the arrangement of the classes. What classes are we going to choose for and which combinations are going to be made? It needs time to do so in a careful way. There's something else, and that's not the vo, but the p.o. The impact analysis also talked to teachers and not just to vo-people. Teachers from the p.o. state explicitly that they really want to have the time to allow the transfer of their students to take place in a good way. So if you do not give the exact clarity until later, then that just creates problems, also in the direction of the students and the parents. They also need timely clarity about where a child goes and which school is suitable for that purpose. May 1st was already annoying, because it always falls during the May holiday. So it's gonna be mid-May. We just... Look at the impact analysis: it's been looked at very carefully. But in the end we had to come to the conclusion: only April 1st. Then we can also do it together in a good way, in the interests of everyone: children, parents, p.o. schools, teachers and also the vo on how to get their formations in order. That's the choice. Of course, once again all respect for Mr Van Meenen if he makes a different choice, but once again, that independent report has been thoroughly discussed, also with those involved in practice and not only with the sector organisations, which are also important in this respect, finally delivered this conclusion and that is why I have given it a place in the legislative proposal in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u59	It's quite a story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u60	It was three questions, then you get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u61	Yeah, sure. Why did I go into politics from the point of view of education? There are several reasons for this, but one of the main reasons is the organized distrust of the people in the classroom that there was from the government, and sometimes still is. I am not going to say that what I am doing here is a motion of censure towards the teachers. We have talked here many times about the structure of secondary education, about the developments that are increasingly wandering away from broad bridge classes. It is not for nothing that the Minister himself tries to find his way back in his National Education Programme. That's for kids who need it. Those kids don't just need that because there's been corona, those kids already needed it for that, and they're gonna need it again in the future. That is one of the reasons why the NPO should be structured on a number of lines as far as my group is concerned. I have every confidence in teachers, but what I don't trust is the system. The system tends more and more towards early selection and this is a step in that. The Minister's talking about a month and a half. Well, I think it's a lot longer. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Aan het begin van het jaar zal het ...]] We are actually back to square one, because the notification will take place at the beginning of the calendar year. Then the whole selection actually takes place. I say we're in the middle of a discussion about that selection. I think it's... Maybe the Minister could have said the same thing. He might feel invited by the Chamber. That is all well and good, but I think that this discussion has a much greater importance and should be seen in a much wider context. I say... Well, the parallel to the broken car has already been pulled. You also have to stop working on a system that's broken in the core at some point. That is my main point and that is not because of teachers, it is simply because of politics. We are now on the point that the greatest risk of adopting this law is that the whole discussion on the transition of p.o. I just don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u62	Once again, Mr Van Meenen has every right to do so, including from his position. First of all, I note that if this law were not to go ahead, we would fall back on a situation which had already been mentioned two years ago as being'very vulnerable'. In the past year, we have also seen the extent of this vulnerability. We have also seen what it means for inequality of opportunity if a final test doesn't take place; that one year. We even discussed this with each other in a debate. Such a metaphor of a broken car or a car that is no longer in order: are you going to fix it or are you going to buy a new car? As long as you haven't ordered a new car, you're gonna have to move on with that car. When it comes to this law: we see the vulnerabilities in it and if this is the order that we are still dealing with and we do not do anything about the vulnerabilities in the order, then we have a huge responsibility, even at the time of another derailment. Then we can have very nice words about equality of opportunity and the like, but I can predict that if we stick to this really incredibly hybrid order with all those vulnerabilities, with double roles, with two supervisors, one of whom also says, "I can't actually stand it anymore. It's gonna have to be a while. We may be able to do that, but we're not going to do that for years to come"... I believe that we should be aware of these facts and at least act for that period. Because they are legal bases, we simply need a law that provides clarity. Mr. Chairman. I have said enough about that. One more comment on the actual time of education. Oberon's impact analysis, which you received in December, shows that moving forward or leaving has no effect on that. They are professional teachers who are engaged in their work and who also feel responsible, even after the decline of the finals, no matter what time they are, to ensure that they also give their children effective education in a good way. That's the trust I have in the professionals. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr Van Meenen. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u64	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman, because here we go again. I also have confidence in teachers that this education is still being given, but the problem is that education is no longer given with the question in the background as to what the follow-up is. 'Cause that's for sure. There are consequences. This has direct consequences for a child who will be told in February: you are a VMBO child. That is what the rest of the education period is all about, while I think: I am not at all ready for a child to be selected at the age of 11/12. But in any case, education time no longer focuses on the development of the child and on whether another advice is possible. That's my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u65	First there is the school advice, but then the second independent information is still involved in the further assessment of the child. That takes place later in time, as you know. So in that respect: even in the months after, this is still the subject of constant conversation and attention. I have also mentioned several times before the recess, which was also the result of a motion by the Labour Party, which we have also carried out. We don't call it a flow-through test for nothing. The assessment of where a child is, he or she, should not take place at a fixed time. That is, of course, necessary when it comes to completing the p.o.: You must then see which step is taken to the vo. Also in vo, not only in junior high, but also in year two and in year three, we have to look very closely at how these children are doing and where they are standing. For example, every time we have the opportunity to put them at the right level when there are developments in the children. This could differ from the previous assessments that have been made. That shouldn't be one static moment either. That's exactly what we need to get rid of. And that is also part of the thrust of this bill. Mr. Chairman. I come to the amendments. I understand that there is one further amendment in preparation. Mr Kwint has explained to me what he wants with his amendment, but I have not yet seen it in printed form.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u66	No, but you'll have to help us with that. There is an amendment by Mr Kwint/Westerveld on maintaining a central flow test. I understand that this is being modified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u67	That was the amendment in part No. 11. You understand that very well. Since a letter of amendment has been tabled, the amendment must be rewritten on that letter of amendment. There is still a bit of legal alignment to be made here and there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u68	I think I know enough to judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u69	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u70	But there is not going to be an additional amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u71	No, just a modified amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u72	Very good. Then we have four amendments, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop referred to his amendment to item No. 9 to the fact that it is going to be changed. I did not recommend the amendment as it stands. As soon as an amended amendment is tabled and this debate is closed, I will reply in writing before the vote. Sounds like a workable deal to me. Mrs Paul's amendment to item No. 10 is about updating the school advice. I have already indicated before the summer that I think this is an intelligent amendment, because it fully maintains the professionalism of teachers and their judgements. At the same time, it ensures that all situations are looked at in the same way, so that there are no situations in which, so to speak, something passes silently and there is no adjustment if there really is reason to do so. I reaffirm my opinion on the amendment to item No. 10. Even after the recess, I didn't change my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u74	You even think it's intelligent. That's totally beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u75	Yes, because we ourselves had not thought of this in this way, I think that is a nice phrase. This bill has been so well thought out, but this element really came from the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop's amendment to item No. 12 on the calamity test has been changed; that is now the amendment to item No. 14. This amendment I can give Chamber judgment. It is a good thing that we regulate this in the law in this way and that we leave a little room for implementation. With the change, that's secured. The amendment in part No. 11 I strongly dissuade, because this material would mean that we are falling back into a situation that is not good as far as we are concerned. As you know, I have continued to work from the choices made by Parliament, both in 2013 and 2019. The situation resulting from the change I have now received but not yet in writing is still very complicated, because it gives the CvTE a double role in the order. And yes, if there is one thing we have learned in recent years, it is that the double roles, the different responsibilities, are not conducive to what we are doing. If we're gonna ask the CvTE for this, it's CvTE's provider, but it's also a supervisor. Then it's a bit like the butcher who's going to judge his own flesh. I must say, I appreciate you having a great deal of faith in the CvTE. I'll share that with you. It is good that this is said out loud in Parliament too, but I think this is a very undesirable situation. It will not improve transparency. Once again, I appreciate the fact that you are looking for a way out of a difficult gap, but we are going to find ourselves in a slightly different gap, and that is not the choice we have made with this bill. I therefore advise against the amendment that is yet to be tabled. By the way, I will put that in writing if we have not had it in the course of the legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u76	That the Minister in his bill didn't want to make this choice, I get it. Otherwise, I wouldn't have had to table an amendment. It would have been in the law itself. But let's get sharp. Look, we can disagree on market organization and a hybrid system. For the summer, the main objection concerned the stability of the system and the dissemination of already scarce expertise on, in this case, the Expert Group and the CvTE. You said the same thing to Mr Van Meenen. It is true that that aspect of your pre-summer concerns has been removed with the amended version of the amendment. Right? Because it is basically about ideological choice, you think that the CvTE...... has a role not only in monitoring but also in making tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u77	You are right that there is going to be a little more clarity with regard to standardisation. By the way, we are considering whether this should still be possible within the current system, because we can see that this is not possible for the Expert Group anymore. This is therefore a possible emergency link that we want to apply for the coming year. In fact, you are solving a small part of the problem that we want to solve with the bill, by creating another problem, namely a duplication of functions when offering and supervising. This, of course, also affects the other providers. Once again, I respect the search you have undertaken to see if we can get out of this, but this is not an outcome on which I can say that I am going to support it. On the subject of privatisation, I would like to say the following. I've been clear about that before the summer, I think. Let's be careful how we use this word. In any case, the government is simply the one responsible for monitoring the system. We are also filling in that responsibility, including in the legislative proposal that is now before us. For the rest, each provider is paid in the same way. The tests are offered free of charge to the schools. So this isn't some kind of earning model that's gonna make you very rich, but it does meet the needs of education. They're widely shared. The last rounds of conversations we had with the field also show that there is diversity in the offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u78	I will leave that earning model for now, but at least some of the costs, for example for customized testing, are taken away from commercial parties and taken on by the government. But let's get back to the system. The Minister is actually saying: my main objection is that this will duplicate functions and that the commercial providers are unhappy with them. I think that is fine, but I think that is a different, more substantive consideration than what we had before the summer, namely the stability of the whole system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u79	I am not saying that the other providers are going to be unhappy; I do not know that at all. What matters is that we in the system continue to combine responsibilities that are not really compatible, because then you are both a provider and a supervisor. Well, how are you gonna do that, even for that own test? It's gonna be a very complicated weather, and that's what we want to get rid of. We want that clarity. For all the tests, we want them to be treated in the same way, that there's an independent supervisor, that the expertise on standards, that psychometric story we've been talking about extensively for the summer, is concentrated in one place. And you partly meet that, but you simply do not interfere with the combination of functions intact. Well, that's just not a solution. That's, I think, trying to close a leaky tent a little bit. Well, that was a metaphor that one of my officials used, and I have it in the same...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u80	This almost sounds like a broken car keep fixing. I am very pleased that in the relationship therapy between D66 and the minister I was able to do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u81	No, but you're trying... And I get that, and I appreciate that, again, the search. Because actually you would just like to get rid of the offer of all those different keys; just one key, and done. That's what you chose in 2019. That's unlike 2013, but it's okay. Only then did the majority of the Chamber decide otherwise, so that is why we are still in the situation of these various tests, and we are trying to make that clear. You move a bit along with it, but it does not become unambiguous because there is yet another combination of functions. It's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u82	Yes. See if Mrs. Westerveld still has a nice metaphor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u83	Cars, tents... What could it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u84	Yeah, I'm gonna think about that. But the debate in 2013 was of course a different debate. That was the Cito's monopoly position. In the First and Second Chamber there was quite wide concern about that. The debate has just changed. Of course, that is what happened with the amendment. Because Mr Kwint and I have certainly looked very closely at the letter sent by the Minister. We have looked at the arguments and how we can solve them. And yes, that's where these changes come from. And I have the impression that there is a new objection to that every time. And if now the objection is "you're putting supervision wrong" then it seems to me that we can find a practical solution to that. So I would like to ask the Minister: what is really the problem in principle with how we invested supervision now? And if there's a fundamental objection to that, isn't there something to think of with another organ, which means you're holding it in one hand, which means you have the expertise in the same place, but so we don't have that hybrid system of supervision anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u85	But the proposal that is now before us ensures that a provider who is also a supervisor simply gets and holds that position and is put in a position to combine those two positions. And that is not a real solution to the problem we are facing. I am also honest in your direction when I say that it looks a bit better around that normalization, but you are without prejudice to the fact that in our system you are holding on to those double positions, which are even going to be laid down by law again, and I think that is very undesirable. And I can't fix that for you either, because if you're gonna break that up, you're actually gonna get to our bill. Then you put the CvTE, what we do, very explicitly in one position of supervisor, and besides that the rest of the tests can then just be offered. You know that Cito also intends to do so, via Cito B.V. So what is often called the "Cito key" is no longer the official name, but it will be added to the list of other keys that are also offered. And the field is very, very happy with that. In that respect, therefore, you must not make me lose sight of the fact that I am sticking to the legislative proposal as I have submitted it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u86	I'm mostly looking for a solution. I think we all do. There is a part of the Chamber that really has fundamental objections to the way in which this law is inserted. Mr Van Meenen's objections are quite different from those of Mr Kwint and myself. That is why we have made this amendment. That is why we are now looking for a way to ensure that we do not bring the entire providers home to the market, but that the government always has a guarantee role. If the problem is now in monitoring, then I think we can come up with a practical solution to it. I would still like to sit down with Mr Kwint and perhaps also with the Minister's support, but that seems to me to be something that is quite extraordinary and what we can just settle here by finding a practical solution to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u87	To put it this way, the government continues to have primary responsibility for the implementation of this system, even when it comes to organising supervision. The government remains vigilant, hence Mr Bisschop's good amendment on the calamity test, to ensure that a test will be offered if there are no tests from the parties offering the tests now. That's the calamity test, which I'm running ahead of your motion for all children should really be suitable. The same goes for the keys. In that respect, we take responsibility for this whole system from our public responsibility, but we cannot put together a system that we have seen in which no roles are mixed together when we also want to offer a public test. With the experience we have gained over the last few years, including the tests that I have just mentioned on the market, which have entered the schools, we have seen that it works in a good way, especially now that we have these anchor declarations and we have increasingly created a situation in which it can be aligned. So we basically solved that. If you make the choice that you want to go on with different tests, I don't think you're getting away from the bill as we've filed it now. If you want another government test to be offered, you'll end up back in that split where we've been in the past few years. We couldn't get out of there in any other way. We really tried. Mr. Chairman. Before I go to the motions... If this law is passed, then of course he also has to go to the First Chamber. Then we'll definitely have another year of implementation. We have to work hard to try to make that happen in that year, because if it is going to take even longer in the First Chamber, it may disappear even further in time. So there's a lot of urgency to try and get on with this as quickly as possible, also because of the vulnerabilities. Then there is Mrs Westerveld's motion to item No. 15. I can really reassure her. I understand that you have submitted it, because otherwise you will no longer have an opportunity, but also under current legislation, test providers are obliged to take a suitable final test for all pupils, including for students with disabilities who are not covered by an exemption. I'll tell you who these exemptions are for later. We'll take care of that in the P.O. Decision. This is also maintained under the new legislation. This also means that when we approve the final tests we specifically check whether those final test providers have different versions for students with disabilities. You mentioned Braille, but you can of course also help children with a reading limitation in a different way, for example by having the ability to enlarge it or by offering an enlarged version on print. There are also versions that are read automatically. There are also black and white versions for students who are color blind. In short, in many ways we meet them. That's also a legal assignment. This therefore applies to the test providers, but this may also apply to the calamity test, should it have to be put in place. Let's hope this isn't necessary. But even then it is offered for different students. The law is very specific about students who get an exemption. These are pupils who, according to their development perspective, are migrating to secondary education within the output profiles of the labour market and daily spending, students with an IQ below 75 and students who are four years or less in the Netherlands and who do not yet have sufficient control of Dutch. Those are the only grounds for exception. For all other students a test must be offered. Of course, I'm always talking to the field. I don't have any real signals that that's not gonna work, that final tests aren't gonna work. If you have received it, if only one in a thousand students, I would be happy to hear it, because we will talk about it as well. But this is the legal situation and it doesn't change. As far as the motion is concerned, superfluous or dissuaded, I do not really think that we should vote on such a motion because it gives the impression that something is not properly arranged, although it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u88	I agree with the Minister. If it's settled properly, we're not going to table a motion on that, of course. I do have a specific question. If there is a student in a class who is less able to see, is it the case that the test provider is obliged to offer the same test in terms of content but in a different way for one student who is less able to see or has autistism or in another way better able to take that test?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u89	The provider is obliged to make sure the keys are there. Of course, it's up to the school to make it clear that they'd like to have such a test because they have such a student in the classroom. So the schools have a responsibility in this too. I shall come back to that later, because I think that you have rightly called for attention to be paid to the proper dissemination of information, to knowing the way and so on, and so on. But we've done really well in the law we're dealing with right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u90	Then I'll withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u91	Since the Westerveld motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u92	Then I come to the motion on part No. 16 by Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld on the declarations of admissibility. It is right that you should put your finger on this. You do have to be careful that this goes well for these students as well. As you know, we are also in good contact with the Praktijkonderwijs Sector Council and the GO Sector Council, with which the schools dealing with such pupils in particular are affiliated. These councils are, of course, also in very close contact with the schools. If I may understand your motion in such a way that we will continue these discussions and that we will continue to follow that closely with these sectoral councils, then I can give that judgment to the Chamber. I think we're on top of it, but it's also good to be encouraged to keep it up. If problems arise, we will, of course, inform you of this if we send you another report. So the motion in part No. 16 I give judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u93	As far as the Acts are concerned, I note that Mr Kwint has nodded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u94	I saw that, too, and I was glad to see that. Then the motion to part No. 17. It's complicated in that sense, that when it comes to what happens in the curriculum of the pabos, that's what they're about. You know that; I have explained this to you before or my colleague has done so. So let me order a motion to change that: in itself it is possible and also looking at which signatories are underneath it I suspect that one is moving immediately, but it is up to them. By the way, I understand what you're doing here. You say, and I agree with you, that it is important that the pabos should also pay attention to school advice. And when one comes to the schools as a teacher, one must also be well prepared, know what to do. We know, by the way, that happens on a lot of pabos as well. For example, the knowledge bases of the pabo's contain requirements for start-up qualified teachers. It also includes skills to be able to advise properly. If I understand the motion in such a way that you are also aware that there are limits to what we can ask for from the national policy of pabos, but that we will talk to them about this and encourage and promote them to do so more broadly on the pabos, then I can give that judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u95	Is Mr Kwint going to be clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u96	And then, of course, I will discuss this with my colleague Van Engelshoven. She will have to take care of that for the time being, because of course we do not know how long we are still in office. But we've been saying that for months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u97	In that respect, the Ministry seems to be some sort of Hotel California. You won't be able to get rid of that at some point. Although some rulers think otherwise. This whole thing aside. I can live well with the Minister's explanation, but I have the question as to whether anything can come our way after that discussion. If, for example, there are pabos or colleges who think it is a very bad idea to pay attention to this, then I am also curious about the argument behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u98	Sure. I shall pass that on in this way too, and that is what is now in the Acts. You also asked a question about the transfer of knowledge. You said that not all the knowledge lies only with those two small organisations, as you called it. Know that's what we're really doing. There have also been agreements with the Expert Group Keys PO to also transfer knowledge to the CvTE and to the Cito Foundation, and over and over again. There is also a shadow in the current assessment procedure to see what is going to be better if we do it this way. Of course, we have only one goal, and that is to make the best use of the expertise that is already so scarce. I can only say that we are dealing with this bill in a very orderly manner. I'm gonna have to look you in the eye. Now there is no nodding, but it may still fall. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 18 by Mr Segers and an impressive number of signatories. I understand that this has just been reconfirmed, so the summer has not had the wrong effect. We are already working on parts, including parent organisations, to see if we can include this important target group with hand-picking. That could use a little more broadening. So I can give this motion judgment Chamber. Following on from what we are already doing, we will also inform and involve the parent organisations. Some of the handouts have already been prepared. So it's not like we should write these hand-outs with them or anything, because then we would ask these organisations a little bit about, I think. But it is very good that they take note of it and also see how it can be carried out more practically. You know, moreover, that a letter of amendment has provided for schools not only to make the school advice procedure known in the school guide, but also to actively inform parents about the school advice procedure. So it is not just something on paper anymore; there is now an active duty to inform them. That was also a result of the debate before the summer. We thought that was a good addition. The motion in part No. 18 gets judgment, Chamber. The motion in part No. 19 by Mr Peters and Mrs Paul I can give judgment Chamber. We're going to follow that, of course. We will also inform you about this if necessary. For the motion in part No. 20 is basically the same thing. We have, of course, thought carefully about the choices made in this bill. I have also explained this in detail. It is also important to keep following that. I understand very well that you want to keep your finger on the wrist, so judge Chamber. Then Mr. De Hoop, who has a demolition motion. That's the motion in part No. 21. You're a co-legislator yourself. So if you want to scrap something of a bill, you can do it by means of amendment or by voting against a law. So I'm not suggesting this motion. I would remind you of your duties and the large toolbox you have as a Member of Parliament. Then the motion to part No. 22 by Mrs Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u99	The motion in part No. 22 is of...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u100	Mr Peters, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u101	No, the motion in part No. 22 belongs to Mr De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u102	Mr. De Hoop. No, I've got the motion in part number now. 23. That's Mr. Van Meenen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u103	Let's start with the motion in part no. Twenty-two?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u104	The motion in part No. 22. Oh, yeah, that's right. It was still in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u105	Otherwise, it's gonna be chaos.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u106	Then it's definitely gonna be chaos. We shouldn't have that. Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned this in the letter before the summer and said that there is no need for it. I would like to repeat it here once again in order to amend the so-called decision CXC. Why not? Since Article 24 of the Decision lays down the conditions under which diplomas are to be awarded, we are talking about school diplomas for pupils to pass on to education in the European Netherlands. The scheme shall enter into force on 1 August 2021. The scheme amends the application for and admission to higher education so that the school diplomas of these schools give access to higher education in the European Netherlands. There's no problem here. We did a good job on this. That is why this motion is really superfluous. We don't have to change anything, because it's already settled in the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u107	So the motion is dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u108	That's why I advise her, yes, because why would you change something that doesn't need to be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u109	That makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u110	That almost sounds like occupational therapy. I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u111	Mr De Hoop has a comment to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u112	That makes sense, too. I've also read the Minister's correspondence. However, I do miss an explanation of why the diploma requirements have been formulated so widely that they have only turned out to have cut themselves off from European further education at the time of certification. This debate is probably not followed by many people, but I have had a lot of emails from the Caribbean. I'm gonna e-mail you that. So let us look at what we are up against and then find a solution. Then I'm prepared to withdraw the motion. I see that you see things differently than I do, but then I'm going to share the correspondence with you. Then we can see if that way we can find a way in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u113	Let me be clear: I was just asked in a motion to amend a decision. Of this, I said quite clearly that it does not need to be adapted, because Article 24 lays down the conditions under which pupils can pass on to education in the European Netherlands. This also applies to the schools you mentioned. I think it would be very clear then to forward a presentation of these parts of the debate and of what I reported to your Chamber in the letter in July to the schools concerned, because there is therefore a lack of clarity. We can remove that ambiguity with each other. But then the decision does not need to be amended, as you ask me. I do not know whether you will be maintaining your motion, but of course I am always willing to look at correspondence if there is any ambiguity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u114	The motion is simply dissuaded, so Mr De Hoop can send emails, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u115	He's asking me to change something that doesn't need to be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u116	It will not be changed, because I said I would withdraw the motion. But would you mind looking at those e-mails? I'm going to share it with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u117	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u118	That's all I've said, so I'm taking a constructive approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u119	Very good. We always appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u120	Then there's one motion left. That's the motion in part No. 23 by Mr Van Meenen, Mr Bishop and Mr De Hoop. I've indicated that we're going to have one signing-in in the law. I understand, of course, that Mr Van Meenen would like to conduct this section in this way, because he thinks the law is superfluous, but I do not need to talk to the educational field right now to settle something that I have submitted to you in a legislative proposal. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u121	That's it, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u122	In my view, then, I have dealt with the questions, motions and amendments that have been tabled. I will reply in writing to the amendments that are still to be tabled before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u123	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u124	So much for this debate. On Tuesday we will vote on the law, the amendments, including two modified amendments, plus the seven remaining motions. So much for this debate. Thanks to the Minister. I'm suspending for lunch. I'll see you back at 12:30. Then we're gonna do the other education debate. I'll suspend until 12:30, and I wish you all a good meal.
