ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35429, adaptation of some of the laws implementing Council Regulation 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on enhanced cooperation in the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, i.e. the EOM Introduction Act. Once again, I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u2	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin my first term of office. I asked you in advance whether that would be okay with saying some nice words towards your Chamber. I see that the room has been emptied immediately; I understand that. The central point of these nice words is that I have already said this in last Tuesday's debate that I very much appreciate the substantive discussions that we have here. In recent weeks, I believe that this has to do with the fact that the elections are about to be held, many publications have been published on whether our rule of law and our state system are still in place and whether a constitutional court would be appropriate. Well, I have already said to myself publicly that I believe that it would be a retrograde step towards the rule of law if it did not take any account of the role played by your Chamber. But we'll get back to the subject I'm here for in a moment, soon, quickly. I would like to say out loud, however, that this fine expression in the Esperanto, chambre de réflexion, does not express 100% of what is at stake in the legislative process as regards the role of your Chamber. That part goes on. It is precisely this role that is intended to reflect not only the legislation and the policy with which the government wishes to pursue, but also to take a test of its own. 'Réflexion' gives the impression that it is right, because it is also such that a mirror is being held up to us. But the special thing about the process here is that I have noticed that in the very good substantive discussion about the curfew that we had two weeks ago, we put the basis of what we are doing more into perspective, and that is what is needed. Also on the subject of today's debate, which we will see later, the question always comes back: "We already have a Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office? Why would we have a European Public Prosecutor's Office?" Let us have a very clear debate on why here. Mr. Chairman. As a small token of recognition... it's not like I wrote a book purely for you, but I did reveal in this Chamber last week that I did. I do not want to go along with the Voermansshuffle and thus drive sales, but it was discussed at some point in the debate with Mr Janssen. Since the proceeds of the book go entirely to the Ronald McDonald Foundation, I would find it a shame to deprive your members of the opportunity to contribute to such a charity. The book I have here, I would like to donate to the library of your First Chamber. I'll put it on the corner of the desk...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u4	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u5	... next to the blank paper tray, so if you leave it, someone who comes after me can use it as paper. Mr. Chairman. The words I just used, I didn't use to have a nice introduction. We are discussing the European Public Prosecutor's Office today. This raises a very important constitutional issue, which has been quite rightly raised by a number of Members of Parliament, namely the fear of Europe's excessive role in national investigation and prosecution policy. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say immediately to reassure you that I do not share that fear. The decisive consideration for accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office has been that EU fraud is often of a cross-border nature and is often related to well-organised crime, and that intensive cooperation between Member States in combating this extensive form of crime with EU funds is inevitable, including for the effectiveness of national criminal investigations in the Netherlands. That is why this is so important for our own rule of law. By joining in 2018, the Netherlands is from the very beginning involved in the preparations for the actual start of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which I will then refer to as the European Public Prosecutor's Office for the sake of time. The participation of the Netherlands offers the Dutch European Prosecutor the opportunity to influence the establishment of the internal rules that the College is required to draw up and the determination of what is so important to the prosecution policy of the European Prosecutor. The actual start is imminent. In September last year, the Chief Prosecutor and the College of European Prosecutors started. At the beginning of February, the two Dutch delegated European prosecutors were formally appointed. The personnel occupation is now almost complete at the central level. This simply allows for a better fight against offences that harm the financial interests of the European Union. Some of your Members have already referred to the staggeringly large amounts of money involved in fraud involving European subsidies and VAT. That is why it is so important that we have this regulation. It regulates the necessary cross-border cooperation, while respecting the rules in force in national criminal proceedings. The participation of the Netherlands is now a fact. The legislative proposal should remove any barriers to the proper functioning of Dutch legislation and clarify a number of practical issues. We didn't hook up till late. Maybe not everyone agreed with the decision of this government to still participate in the EOM, but a large majority in the House of Representatives is, and I trust that this will also be the case for your Chamber. I say it quite honestly: I fully support this choice, because of the fight against these EU frauds, but also because of the addition to our own rule of law, as I have just explained. The Dutch Public Prosecutor and the investigating authorities are ready for the start. I therefore hope that the legislative process can be completed soon. Extending the mandate of the EPPO I would just like to say here that it is only possible to do so by unanimity in the EU. The Netherlands does not want this enlargement. I have always said so, also in accordance with what has been discussed here and in the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. I come to the answer to the questions. With your permission, I do so by group, so I shall begin with the questions put by Mr Van Wely of the Nanninga Group. Mr Van Wely wondered how independent the EOM is. It is an independent body of the EU. The EPPO and the prosecutor shall be independent; this is also laid down in Article 6 of the Regulation. The EPPO shall be solely accountable to the EU institutions. It neither accepts nor requires instructions from external persons. Mr Van Dijk of the SGP asked how real the expectation is that the EOM will lead to more activity. What concrete results should be achieved and what are the risks? Well, thanks to the EPPO, it is expected that there will be significantly more attention to the protection of the EU's financial interests, particularly in those Member States where enforcement is not a priority in this respect. It is also certain that cross-border cooperation in the fight against EU fraud will be made much easier thanks to the EOM Regulation. The EPPO will report annually on its results to the Council, the Commission, the European Parliament and the national parliaments. We look forward to the first report with interest. There are conceivable risks that the EMF budget will prove insufficient in practice or that participating States will not cooperate sufficiently, for example by making too little detection capacity available. Mr Van Dijk asked for that. He had another question, but I can take a break now. He had the question: how is fraud detected without transferring new powers? Perhaps I will answer them first, because then I have answered both of Mr Van Dijk's questions. At least what is happening now has not proved effective in the fight against fraud. At that national level, this fight is not given priority in all Member States. You can't solve that with more cooperation. This has also been demonstrated in practice. It is not a question of transferring powers, but rather of supplementing existing powers at national level at European Union level. You can compare this with the positions of Europol and Eurojust. They have also helped us greatly in the fight against cross-border crime. It is expected that more fraud cases will be dealt with in the EU. Whether it's going to work under the current circumstances will prove to be our commitment. We should not now commit ourselves to performance indicators. We can measure that very well in the future, because the Netherlands has said very clearly: "This is the fence that we put around it. EU, otherwise."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Following on from the Minister's positive expectations, I would like to say that I do understand that it is something new, which makes it very difficult to make hard predictions, but at the same time it remains something very unsatisfactory, because it is very important for us to know when the project was successful. How do we assess whether the transfer of powers has been worth it? It would be nice if you had certain indicators: from then on and then we have succeeded and if not, we fall back on plan B et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u7	We shouldn't do that. Let me explain to you why. Over the past few years, I have debated with the House of Representatives the question of the take-away money and whether we should simply put a result amount on it. I always said no. Because if we do, we're gonna be behind forms of gross, serious crime. This also applies to lighter crime. I always mention the example of child abuse and trafficking and everything around it. These do not necessarily lead to very large amounts of packing. They'd fall behind. I really don't like that. We need to assess the rule of law on parameters that are not so much related to amounts or distances or anything like that. They need to be much more focused on: do we achieve targets for tackling EU frauds in relation to subsidies and VAT? Are we achieving results in the EU's broad geography? If we are only tackling EU frauds in the Netherlands together, then I also think: I do not know if we have made any progress. You also need to see if you can actually determine whether the issues that are being filed actually lead to convictions and other results, such as taking them away and the like. We also need to look at whether this has a certain preventive effect in society on that point. These are the more criteria we need to apply. Perhaps Mr Van Dijk was already looking for that, but really, you should not say: we have succeeded if we have 60% of so much less VAT fraud. I think that's dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u8	I understand the Minister's considerations. At the same time, it is a great risk if you do not commit yourself to certain objectives, because then you will soon be able to see, depending on your political preferences and also how you feel about the EU, 'it has been worth it, because it has led to a greater sense of urgency and so on' without being able to identify very clear results. Isn't it still a very shady basis to hand over these powers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u9	We're not really gonna transfer powers. Let's get that straight. We're only gonna deal with these EU frauds. I said in the introduction that many things are cross-border, that the Member States themselves do not have enough opportunities and that cross-border cooperation does not appear to have sufficient added value. But then I'm gonna go back. Whether the rule of law does what it should do, let me put it this way: you cannot measure it to a number of dollars or just a few people in prison. This is to be measured by: do we indeed see that we can roll up important fraud networks, do we see that this works not only in the Netherlands but also in Germany and in certain countries in Eastern Europe, in short? I am not going to repeat it all, but in the Netherlands it is exactly the same. We do not charge our judges and our prosecutors with the fact that they can do so many cases per hour or take away so many million. No, we have said here: the system that you can do with simple traffic fines, then you have PxQ and that sort of thing, we should not do with organized crime, because then you go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u10	I just heard the Minister say that no powers are being delegated, but there are indeed investigative and prosecution powers being transferred from the national government to the EOM. Following Mr Van Dijk's comment, I would also like to point out that there is still a commitment that the Minister made to me three years ago to at least reflect the costs and benefits of the EPPO. So I am also waiting for what Mr Van Dijk is right to ask for. But my question is actually the following. I just heard the Minister say that reports are being made every year to the national parliaments. I understand that this has not been included in the EOM regulation, so say the EU regulation. Nor is the budget estimate submitted to the national parliaments. So if it is not in the regulation, what guarantees do the national parliaments have in order to be able to control the report and the budget estimate? Now that lies only with the European Parliament, as a parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u11	What you say about the budget estimate is correct. But you have that guarantee of accountability through our Dutch government. That is what I said here three years ago. It is therefore a responsibility of the Cabinet to ensure that these reports are brought to Parliament and that we discuss them here. What you are saying about the budget estimate is correct, but since it is only now beginning to run, it is very difficult to give a cost-benefit analysis now. We're definitely gonna give it over the next few years. I would like to make it quite clear that 'costs/benefits' does not mean that we are going to say that for every euro spent, three euros of VAT fraud must have been caught. I have just said this, particularly in response to Mr Van Dijk's interruption. You cannot set these parameters that simple, and I would find that really contrary, even to our own rule of law. 'Cause that's not how I do it with our own D.A.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u12	But it should be clear whether there is at all what I call "earning effects." However, I was mainly concerned with those reports. It may be that the cabinet has promised to present it to Parliament every year, but that is a commitment that a new cabinet can return to just as easily. It's nowhere in the regulation. Moreover, the power to hold the European Chief Prosecutor to account lies only with the European Parliament, and not with national parliaments. So that control line of the national parliaments is very indirect in relation to that of the European Parliament. Does the Minister not agree with me that there is an imbalance between the national parliaments and the European Parliament, and that there is a lack of national competence?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u13	No, I certainly don't believe that. The dynamics of parliamentary democracy means that these are contained in both parliamentary histories, legal histories. This also happened three years ago when we discussed the question of accession. That's how I explained it back then. What if a next cabinet says that we really do not think that is necessary? Then that would be something that would lead the parliament to deviate from the parliamentary history underlying accession in the first place, and secondly now this law on the EPPO. And then it is up to Parliament to question that cabinet or government and to call it to account. So I cannot anticipate, for example, 2030, in which at some point a cabinet would say, "Well, given how it has developed, we believe that responsibility." Then it's up to you. But one thing is true: that cabinet will have to explain it, because that is how it is now arranged in parliamentary history.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u14	Mr. Van Hattem, your third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u15	That is indeed the case; Parliament can stand up and ask for it. But Parliament will depend on a parliamentary majority. If, for example, the parliament no longer gets that responsibility and a majority in that parliament says that it does not want to get in the way of the cabinet, then the minority or opposition is 1-0 behind. You will have no guarantee in the regulation in order to fall back on it. So the problem actually persists in this way. It is therefore a failure on the part of the national parliaments towards the European Parliament, because it must be offered to the European Parliament by default, regardless of whether there is a parliamentary majority in favour or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u16	We discussed this three years ago. I do not see it as a failure, because there is no question of a failure when your national government says that we will report it to Parliament. Then that happens at the same time. Otherwise, three years ago, we would have had to say, "No, we think that when we join, we should have said that..." and so on, and so on. We didn't. And yes, parliamentary majority and minorities, what was it like? Roses wilt, ships perish, but parliamentary majority and minorities always exist in one way or another. But I don't know what they look like. What I just want to say is that our parliamentary system is working like this. If a subsequent cabinet, for example Rutte XVIII or Rutte XIX, says at some point that it is no longer going to report to the national parliament, then according to the rules of the game what I am saying now, it will also come back into parliamentary history; it is a bit that drostebox, if you know what I mean, your two chambers have to report that. Then the parliamentary majority or minority will have the opportunity to say what it wants. Mr. Chairman. I also had a question from Mrs Adriaansens of the VVD. She asked the question when we could see the first results. I told you, that's hard. Of course, it's a new organization. I really think we should let it get going first, but I'm actually assuming they've really gotten on steam within a year, also disconcerting that there's something like covid. After that year we can see how the national authorities in the participating Member States have cooperated. That will, I think, be very important next year. Mr. Chairman. I would like to put Mrs Baay-Timmerman's question in between, because it fits in a little. It's about the different criminal justice systems. The EPPO is not a solution to the existing differences between criminal justice systems. This follows from the hybrid character of the EPPO. This is also in line with the reluctance on the part of Member States. However, it will help to simplify cross-border cooperation between authorities in participating Member States compared to traditional instruments. I have seen this in Europol's work, which is a huge step forward in European detection. That's how we're gonna see it at the EOM.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u17	I have here the report from 2019; it is fairly recent from OLAF, which I mentioned in my contribution. That too is quite critical of setting up the EPPO. I'm quoting it literally. They mention two points of concern, so to speak: "Another risk is that the extensive internal consultation and translation required for the work of the rooms of the EPPO will ultimately take too long for criminal proceedings, where time is often the most scarce means." I have not been able to fully verify whether the limitation periods in the Member States for the notification of the offence are identical. However, Regulation 2017/1371 states that the Directive provides for a minimum number of rules. Member States are free to adopt or maintain stricter measures for offences affecting the financial interests of the Union. Surely the Minister will agree with me that, if Member States themselves can set limitation periods in the sense that one Member State, for example, uses one or two years and another Member State, for fraud cases for five years, there will at some point be an enormous legal inequality in the case of prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u18	That last point is in itself correct. Now I am a great supporter of the European Union. You must have noticed that once. When I was a teacher, I showed from the history of the EU that European social law is now much more advanced than European criminal law. I was able to show exactly that in the sixties it was made out of some sort of patchwork. Funny enough, it was mainly French rules in the field of equal treatment. That was all developed. We see that the EU, which was meant to be a common market, is bringing together more and more cross-border issues for all of us, as well. I think that we have a real job to do in the coming years in terms of unifying limitation periods, but also in terms of bounces and such. I just think it is a good thing that we have this accession at least now and that we are working together. We will then see some of these things in practice. Hopefully, the EOM Regulation and the accompanying criminal law regulations in the EU will be gradually adapted to this. That's what we have to assume. I'm not gonna tell you any better than it is. But if we were to say 'yes, this limitation period is different everywhere; let us just sit and wait for everyone to do the same', I think Mrs Baay agrees with me that we should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u19	Mrs Baay does think otherwise. However, it is bizarre that no uniform limitation periods or closing periods will be maintained in such a regulation. Because that simply means that in one Member State where fraud is committed after one or two years of prosecution no longer can take place and that in the other Member State there may be room for 10 years. That is exactly what we all do not want. We want to reduce this EU fraud. It seems obvious to me that you're just starting with something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u20	I have just answered this, so I find it a little difficult to repeat that completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u21	I wouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u22	In the years to come, we will encounter a number of things which, in practice, will or will not lead to problems as you so beautifully described. Then I say that we have to adapt it with each other, but the first start has been made to tackle these EU frauds together via such an EPPO. That is, of course, the basic principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u23	Mrs Baay, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u24	Finally, Mr President. In my contribution I also asked whether the Minister, of course in the future, would be a common criminal code or a common criminal code. The Court of First Instance held that the Court of First Instance had no jurisdiction to rule on the application of Community law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u25	I shall come back to the questions later, Mrs Baay. I'm just gonna see if it's okay to take it with me. I wanted to see Mrs Adriaansen first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u26	I still have a question on this point. Suppose, there is a cross-border fraud in the Netherlands involving the EOM, but also the National Public Prosecutor's Office. What I understand is that the Minister says everywhere that there is enormous pressure on the Public Prosecutor's Office, partly because of staff shortages and so on. My question is: to what extent does the deficit on the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office affect the work of the EPPO in such a cross-border fraud case that also takes place in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u27	Undoubtedly, there may be a time when workload may be a problem in further cooperation, i.e. in line with the national prosecutor's office. But of course we have just said that the Netherlands has made two prosecutors available to the EPPO. So for the work of the EPPO itself, the possible too high workload of the prosecutor... I would add that I share Mr Dittrich's concerns. I would almost like to say that I have written a few words about this. So I fully agree with him, but that will not have to be done to the functioning of the EPPO and the contribution of the Netherlands to these cross-border cases, because these two prosecutors have been made available for that purpose. Mr. Chairman. I would like to move on to Mrs Adriaansen's questions. She asked about the OLAF regulation and its relationship with the Public Prosecutor. That Regulation has recently been amended, in particular due to the arrival of the EPPO. That amended OLAF Regulation includes, inter alia, provisions on the cooperation between EPPO and OLAF. The Netherlands is in favour of this and supports the principles of such cooperation, such as mutual complementarity and avoiding duplication. It is also important that OLAF's mandate is limited to carrying out administrative investigations. OLAF will not therefore become an investigative body, such as the police or the FIOD. The amended OLAF Regulation also contains a number of other elements, such as OLAF's access to banking data. The Netherlands was less enthusiastic about that. The Netherlands abstained, but because a majority of Member States could agree, the Netherlands will have to implement it. Ms Adriaansens asked about the relationship between EOM and Eurofisc. The EPPO Regulation does not regulate cooperation between these two, but this is also reflected in the recently amended OLAF Regulation. So it is in line with the expectation that the EPPO will use the OLAF channel to obtain that information from Eurofisc in future cases. Then I come to the questions put by Mr Janssen van de SP. Mr. Janssen had a question of being: why is the EOM needed as a new instance? I already said something about that. I recall that we discussed this in detail three years ago in the accession debate. I'm gonna go back to that. The main reasons were and are the following. The amounts involved in EU fraud are really... My lyrics say "significant," but I think they're huge. They are huge amounts, and the existing EU instruments, notably OLAF and Eurojust, do not in practice lead to criminal prosecution. This is also because the prosecution of EU fraud does not have the same priority in all Member States. A secondary objective is, of course, to simplify cross-border cooperation. I've said a lot about that. Mr Janssen also asked about the extension of the mandate. I said that the public prosecutor should focus on the task for which it was set up, i.e. the fight against EU fraud. As far as I am concerned, the extension of the mandate is not necessary. It's also undesirable. Cabinet and Chamber are in complete agreement on this point. Enlargement must be decided unanimously. Of course, the Cabinet will keep you informed of the annotated agendas of the JHA along the usual channels. I did that after 2018, when we talked about this. For example, at the informal JHA Council in Luxembourg in early October 2018, there was a little bit of talk that the French would also like to look at how it would turn out after 2025. In that informal JHA Council, I would have said something very clearly about this: a strong statement. I wasn't the only one; other countries did too. By the way, France itself took that idea off the agenda again. But we're always there ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u28	I have a question for the Minister. First of all, I hear the Minister say that he is very much in favour of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u30	Then I hear the Minister say that he is extremely shocked by the amounts involved in fraud. However, the same European Union that the Minister is such a big fan of is making these huge, huge sums available. We are really talking about hundreds, thousands of billions being pumped around within the EU and even beyond. Wouldn't it be much wiser, instead of pumping that money around so easily, to take a critical look at it, or better yet, to get out of the EU? We are not going to settle this discussion here, but it is not better to take a critical look at the way that money is made available to all the countries and territories in the world where the EU believes it has a role to play and with arrangements...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u31	What's your question, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u32	Whether it would be better to use less easy-to-fraud schemes or to spend less money around instead of using a European Public Prosecutor's Office to ride the horse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u33	These funds shall not be made available for fraud. That is the case in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands there is also fraud. At the moment, the fight against fraud in the context of the premium affair has, of course, become a somewhat unwieldy subject, but let us be clear. In the Netherlands, as well as in other Member States and in the EU, there are all kinds of schemes that allow subsidies. There is also such a thing as EU VAT arrangements and so on. All this has been done to speed up trade. Then I'll go back to the Marshall Plan back then. You know by now that I am convinced that the Americans did so at the time, and I am grateful that they did so. But whether it is in the Netherlands or in the EU, it has not been made available for fraud. That is why it is a good thing that, where we have an OM in the Netherlands can tackle crime, at least it will be a bit of an area that stays behind, namely that EU fraud, targeted in common.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u34	The Marshall Plan has been returned to our American friends by the Netherlands to the last penny. This does not apply to all the EU support measures that are never paid back in his life. The question is actually very simple. Why don't we make sure that regulations are better organised in the front, so that they are less easy to cheat with, rather than now rigging up a body like the EOM, whose question is whether it's going to work at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u35	Didn't you take it well? There are several studies that show that, contrary to what faith wants here and there on the streets, the European Union is actually much more streamlined in terms of regulation, bureaucracy and other matters than in most Member States. I think that's a very big good. If Mr Van Hattem says that we may need to carry out quality research into the application of legislation, that could of course be done. This seems to me to be primarily something to be done through the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u36	Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u37	I had to concentrate on remembering my own question. Let me return to the Minister's answer to my question about a possible extension of the mandate. The Minister says a few times that this requires unanimity. However, the establishment of the EPPO also required unanimity, for the 2013 regulation. When it did not come, we could amend it in a detour and do it in a different way with a number of Members and the unanimity was gone. Could that also be possible within the current constellation of this EOM? Can a number of countries say that they do want to do so, which means that there will be an amendment? Suppose the Netherlands keeps its back straight and says "we really don't want this," is there some sort of opt-out within the extra mandate that the Netherlands stays outside? I mean, I know Europe as well as I do in trying to find solutions if something doesn't go to the left, then perhaps to try to go to the right, just as the regulation did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u38	No, I can't see that. Now imagine that Andorra, Spain and Portugal, for example, would say that they actually want something that the rest doesn't want, then they can set up an Iberian OM, an IOM. That's all very possible. They can then make rules under European law applicable if they so wish. It's all possible. But if one wants to continue in this constellation in the EOM, then there must be unanimity. Mr. Chairman. Now that I give this answer, I have to make a small correction towards Mr Van Hattem, although I do not see it at the moment, because Article 7 of the EOM Regulation obliges the EOM to send its annual report to the national parliaments. Ah, now I see Mr Van Hattem. I just wanted to correct that. So that direct bond is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u39	The Minister is now talking about the creation of a new EOM, but that is not my concern. I am concerned whether it is possible that 21 of the 22 countries will want something and the Netherlands will keep its back straight and will not. Is it then possible for those 21 countries to reach an extension of the mandate without the Netherlands participating in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u40	No, the Netherlands will leave the EOM.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u41	That's clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u42	That's what this cabinet minister says. I just gave a brief treatise on parliamentary dynamics. Mr Janssen should be able to imagine that even after us a next cabinet and a next Lower House and First Chamber will be formed. I cannot say anything about that, of course, but according to this system, the Netherlands says: we are not participating. I have made that quite clear. I could hang it here on a plate maybe. We are therefore not participating in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u43	Mr Janssen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u44	Well, maybe that's a little easy. If we are dealing here with legal history by talking about the introduction or implementation of how it is going to work, my question is whether you can rule out the possibility that it can work that way. Then the Minister says: no, I can't rule it out, because a next cabinet could decide something else. It is therefore not the case that the operation of the EPPO excludes the possibility of an additional mandate to which not all of the members participating at the present time participate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u45	No, I don't. A next cabinet can submit that to Parliament. In future, Parliament can say that it thinks differently and yet wants an extension of the mandate. I'm not gonna tell generations after me that they don't like something. But what matters now is... I have answered the question clearly. I have another meeting of the JHA Council next week or at the end of this week. If there is an announcement that this autumn, under the new Presidency, she will be working on the extension of the mandate, then the Netherlands will say: we will not participate in it, and if you do so, we will have to get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u46	Finally, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u47	For the next few months, I get that. It would also be very strange for a outgoing cabinet to propose that. I am concerned that the system of the EPPO does make it possible to extend mandates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u48	The system now is that we only have a mandate for this at the EOM. Period. If there is to be an enlargement, there must be unanimity. So without this unanimity, there will be no enlargement. Mr Janssen, President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Janssen on If 15 Member States say that they still go hand in hand with a more extensive mandate, then they have to set up "son of," in film terms, or something completely new. That cannot be done within this EOM framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u49	Mr Van Hattem, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u50	I just heard the Minister say very clearly: we will get out. Then my simple question to the Minister is: how? Because the current EOM scheme does not offer any possibility of getting out of it as a participant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u51	The amendment of the Regulation must be carried out by unanimity of the European Council as a whole. So this regulation for this EOM can't be amended if the Netherlands doesn't want it to. I don't know how to explain life anymore. I'm sorry I might be short on that, but this is how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u52	That's right. It cannot then be extended, but it is not, as the Minister said very clearly, that we should then get out. The Minister cannot say that we are stepping out of the EOM for a moment, because that is just not a possibility. That is precisely the problem of the current arrangement and the convention of the EPPO. There's a big flaw in that. There may be no unanimous extension, but there is no possibility of stepping out of the EPPO as such. Or does the Minister see it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u53	No, that's why I said next. Suppose 15 countries say they'll say they're from now on I don't know what to think of traffic fines or cross-border burglaries You'll only want to arrange them through the EOM, then it can't be if the Netherlands is against it. Then they'll have to do something new. This still means that the EPPO will continue to exist with the Netherlands within the current mandate. But you can't put those new things in there. I think it's stuck in the Acts of your Chamber about six times now. I keep saying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u54	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u55	Maybe I should mention the articles. That may be easy for Mr Van Hattem. That is Article 86 (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. You can just find that in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u56	That wasn't my question. I was not so much concerned with whether what has just been said is being held up. It has been said clearly: we are not going to participate. But there is still something different to what the Minister said just now: we will get out! It's all about getting out. Does the Minister have a solution to get out of the EOM? Because that possibility has so far proved impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u57	Wait a minute. Well, there can be no confusion about that. I have said or intended to say that if 15 of the Member States which are now participating want more and the Netherlands and perhaps some other countries say that they do not want more, then it will remain as it is. Let's just say that one more time. If they want a vehicle to do something different with the fifteen of them, then I say: then it is what it is, but it is not within this regulation. Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the question of why there is a lack of enforcement in the Member States. That was a question from Mr Janssen. He also asked: in which countries is that and should we not simply note that some Member States do not want to cooperate? I will come out with the bad news straight away: there is an enforcement deficit in the fight against fraud involving EU subsidies in almost all Member States. This is because in many countries the shirt is closer than the skirt. National problems are, of course, easier to tackle than European problems. For those countries which do not wish to cooperate, provision is made for special practical working arrangements. If there's any, I'm assuming they'll work. Then to Mr Janssen's question: will the decision to pursue or not be a beacon to judge success? If the EOM doesn't think it's important enough, we don't, he says. My reaction to this is: if the EOM does not continue, the opportunity to prosecute in its own country is relived. Then it is up to the Dutch D.A. to do or not to do so. You are aware of the principle of opportunity. The Netherlands is simply going to give serious substance to the EOM. National anti-fraud measures and the fight against EU fraud are mutually exclusive. That is why I also expressed my enthusiasm for this at the beginning. That enthusiasm has only grown in the three and a half years that I am now Minister, because I have seen in practice, but also in the reports that I have received from the services of the police, the Public Prosecutor, the FIOD, the Tax Service. In addition, the FIOD received an additional 6,2 million from the financial budget for assistance to the EPPO. Why is the EOM needed as a new instance? I think I've said a lot about that. So I would expect that question to be answered. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of questions from Mrs Baay-Timmerman. What is the expectation of the EM's success based on the fact that Hungary and Poland are not participating? With regard to Poland and Hungary, there is a lot to be said about their involvement in European judicial cooperation. I cannot and will not comment on the expressed or unspoken motives for not participating. I can only regret the fact that Hungary and Poland are not participating in the EOM. There is certainly still work to be done from within the EU. As far as I am concerned, the following principle applies to each Member State: if you are in the EU, you can claim EU subsidies and you are in EU VAT arrangements, it should be obvious that you are cooperating with a body such as the EPPO. Mrs Baay-Timmerman also asked: has the EOM not become disproportionate? No. The Regulation clearly defines the mandate of the EPPO. These are really criminal offences where there is a need for an impetus in the area of enforcement and improvement of cross-border cooperation. It is also true that it has become clear that there are very large amounts of money involved, and that they play in more Member States. Then there's the prosecutor's direction. The Delegated Prosecutor shall not be under the direction of this Minister. If the EPPO does not prosecute while the Netherlands considers it useful, the Netherlands can still use its own power to prosecute. The D.A. can do that, but well, we know that. The D.A. is autonomous in that, as you know. Then I come back to the question about the overarching Code of Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure. The Regulation establishes criminal power and thus puts an end to unclear jurisdiction in the participating Member States. The EPPO may take a binding decision on this matter. But there won't be an overarching Code of Criminal Procedure. There are already many instruments in the area of criminal cooperation in the EU. It is also constantly being worked on. Think of the European arrest warrant, the European extradition warrant and other matters. Nor is there going to be an overarching Code of Criminal Law, because the powers of criminalisation at EU level are limited by the Treaties. I can therefore reassure Mrs Baay-Timmerman on that point. This really should be discussed in the Council in unanimity first. I think that's really something we're a long way from. We had a discussion earlier about the fact that we are currently maneuvering between different criminal systems. Mrs Baay-Timmerman was also quite right about the limitation period. I myself mentioned not only the suspension but also the bounce. That doesn't have to be a problem. Apart from the fact that we also have to look at how things are going to work, there is always an opportunity for the criminal court to refer questions to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling, as well as to explain the directive on the protection of the financial interests of the EU and the EPPO regulation. When I see how rich legal development has been in other areas of Europe, I have great confidence that this will happen here too. Mr. Chairman. There are still a number of questions from Mr Van Hattem. He said, "Do you really think you can fight fraud seriously with that EOM?" Yeah, but I'm also realistic. I do not think it is a panacea for all forms of EU fraud, but I really believe it will have added value. Especially when a lot of money becomes available, including in the context of the ERF, it is very important for the EU to be able to act more effectively against misuse of funds, precisely because we need to do this properly. How can a Dutch prosecutor suddenly have to negotiate politically with Hungary? I think that is a valid point. The Dutch prosecutor is under the authority of the Chief Prosecutor. If the Chief Prosecutor says that it is useful for the Dutch prosecutor to talk to Hungary about the position of Hungary and the possible accession, then that is up to the EOM. Then that is not something this minister has any control over. There was a question about other Member States and government immunity. In general, states and governments enjoy immunity from criminal proceedings. The Dutch system in which the Supreme Court opens the possibility of immunity from local authorities is an exception. I do not know whether other countries are considering amending their legislation in this respect. Mr Van Hattem also asked a question about the fact that offering transactions does not undermine national jurisdiction. If the EPPO is competent, it may, if it deems it necessary, apply the simplified procedure. This can only be done if national law makes this possible. In the Netherlands this could be done. That is not a hollowing out of national law. I cannot assess the risk that suspects from other Member States will be offered a transaction. That really depends on the case. By the way, it is good to mention here that we have for some time in the Netherlands submitted the review of the so-called high transactions to an independent committee. We have done so pending new legislation on this point. I believe that the EPPO could perhaps also carry out a very independent review in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u58	I foresee a problem that is not covered by the Minister's explanation. The European Public Prosecutor's Office will soon be able to offer a settlement to a suspect. Then, by accepting that settlement, the possibility of continuing to prosecute as a national Member State has also been closed. Then it is not just a case of suspects from another Member State or something like that, but it can also be a case of fraud in the Netherlands. I'm just saying. There has recently been such a case with the Stern Group, a large car group. A settlement was reached there, too. This was also a matter of European resources. If such a case occurs under the EPPO and the EPPO settles, the Dutch prosecutor can no longer say: we still want to prosecute and deal with someone for it. For then the matter with that settlement and the payment of the fine is closed; so it is also stated in the regulation. Isn't that an excavation of jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u59	No. I still don't see that. There is also the autonomy of the EPPO at that time. The fact that the EPPO deals with these matters also means that ultimately the step that can be taken and could lead to a settlement if the EPPO has lodged that decision with the EPPO. I don't see what that would mean for the erosion of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u60	This means that it can no longer be referred to a Dutch court. If there were a view here in the Netherlands that serious fraud was being committed and that there might even be a link with other matters, but the EPPO, in all its wisdom, decided to settle the matter, that would be the end of the matter. Then there is no possibility for further prosecution and to refer the case to a Dutch judge. The possibility of bringing a case before the Dutch court has then been completely removed by the settlement of the EPPO. Is it not a question of giving up sovereignty, of being able to bring it before the Dutch courts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u61	But it's already in the front. I have always explained, and I continue to think so, that our public prosecutors and public prosecutors in other Member States say about international cross-border EU frauds: that does not get us far enough. An EOM could go a hell of a lot further with that. If then, in a particular case, that EOM then says "but we end up on a particular settlement" "or a "trade" we must of course say "it is the opportunity of the EPPO to decide to do so." However, it is not the case that the Dutch Public Prosecutor has to conclude afterwards that it no longer has jurisdiction, because that has already been discussed at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u62	Mr. Van Hattem, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u63	The proposal now before us is to transfer jurisdiction, the opportunity, to the EPPO. It is not, as the Minister says, that the cross-border nature is the basis for such a case. No, it is a question of involving European resources. If it is a case where, for example, there is no cross-border component at all, but only fraud has been committed by a Dutch partner using European funds, then it is actually a matter that would fit entirely within the Netherlands, but where the EOM now gets the opportunity instead of the Dutch government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u64	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u65	We said to ourselves three years ago, of course, when we joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office: because we see great benefits from this, we put it down to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. So that's where you put it. If the European Public Prosecutor's Office says 'we do nothing with that', then the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office can always say: we still see opportunity, because it is only a Dutch fraud. They can also say that if it is cross-border. We said at the beginning of the whole: we want the European Public Prosecutor's Office to have the opportunity to tackle EU frauds and VAT frauds at EU level. Then you can also place in your hands the possibility that the EPPO will say in any case: we have completed this with a transaction. The interesting thing is that this is reported to the European Parliament and to the national parliaments. I just made that clear. Everyone is there to determine whether they are happy or whether they say: yes, but we should do this differently in the future. In any case, we have made the mandate for the European Public Prosecutor's Office possible. And again, even if they decide not to do anything at all, the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office can still say: we are going to do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u66	Mr Van Hattem, really last.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u67	Finally. Yeah, that only applies when the EOM says we're not gonna do it. But if they do and then settle with a settlement, then with the choice that was made earlier to deposit it with the EPPO, there is indeed a piece of national sovereignty contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u68	I still don't see that. I refer back to what I said about the accession that we have done. We have said that we want to be able to tackle this form of EU subsidies and VAT fraud better, more efficient and cross-border. Cross-border can sometimes mean: also from other Member States. Then that's what we founded. Then we should not say afterwards: but now the EPPO has struck a transaction and we would rather not have wanted that. You can do that in the discussion with the government following the report on the European Parliament. Then you can have that discussion too. That's possible, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u69	I would like to build on this point. I have a concern. I'd like to ask the Minister if he shares it. If we look at Dutch practice, it's not about the last few years; that goes back further, then we see that, when you talk to the D.A. about settlements that are being made, the D.A. says: we have to make choices with the capacity we have and then a settlement is still an opportunity not to let parties get away with something. The EPPO is now being overrun by many fraud cases, which is why they can't handle it. The result is that there is much more appropriate than being prosecuted in order to be able to take things off anyway. Does the Minister share my concern that that would not be very good for the sense of justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u70	I think we should just go see how things turn out first. I don't think we can say already: if that, then we have to do this. I think we really need to see how this is going to develop. Someone here can also ask the question: do you not think that it is already a very important result if we recover 200% of the money earned from fraud through a transaction? Yeah, that's an approach, too. But we're gonna start it now. Then we will look at a number of parameters which I mentioned in the discussion with Mr Van Dijk, and see how well things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u71	The minister says someone could ask the question... But I didn't ask that question. My question was different, namely: does the Minister see the risk? Does the Minister share my concern that it would not be good to start from scratch, because we have also been seeing for a long time in Dutch practice that capacity problems can lead to settlements, when you really want to prosecute? At a new institute like the EOM, the huge frauds, as the minister also points out, could happen very quickly. That's why we shouldn't wait too long to do something with that. It is bad for the sense of justice that poverty is appropriate rather than state of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u72	We really need to separate a few things. It is true that the Dutch Public Prosecutor sometimes says in cases: there is a transaction to consider, because what we can achieve with the transaction probably goes further than we will achieve with a conviction and because otherwise we will go into a lengthy process with each other. I've been able to see that for myself a number of times. Why is that? Because the party involved in the transaction sometimes wants to pay even more, as long as the whole criminal trial is prevented. Those are all considerations that can play on both sides. That has nothing to do with capacity. Those discussions will always play. That's part of our legal system, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u73	Mr Janssen, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u74	Finally. The Minister says that this has nothing to do with capacity problems. Those are not the signals that the Minister is getting at the moment, but those are the signals I received more than ten years ago when I spoke to the Public Prosecutor about the major settlements that were then struck. They just say: we do something, because otherwise we have to let parties walk; we don't have the capacity to turn that into a lawsuit, so we make a deal, because then we know for sure that they won't get away with nothing. If the Minister now says that this is no longer the case at the moment, then that is a huge step forward compared to ten years ago. But I have my doubts about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u75	But then we're gonna have to name a man and a horse and stuff like that. Look, also in the past... Well, let me just say that. I have been on it for a few years, as a civilist, but I was also involved in major criminal cases in the financial and economic sphere, and the consideration in a court of law, whether it is a criminal case or a civil case, whether one is going to transgress or settle at any time or whether it is going to continue, has to do with very different considerations. It's about trial opportunities. That is about possible investment costs and so on. That plays on both sides, including in criminal proceedings. There is also the fact that there is a shortage of people, especially in large criminal cases. I can so whip up some of them from the past few years where there has really been a huge effort by the police, the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary to bring these matters to an end and there has really been zero transit. So I just don't see that this is a consideration. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem asked: how will the EO deal with funding programmes involving both Dutch money and EU money? Some are indeed in shared management. That doesn't matter for the competence of the EPPO. In that case, too, the EPPO may act. Will there not be a trap in which Europol will be given an informative role? How can Europol's protected mission be guaranteed? The EPPO Regulation already contains a provision on cooperation between the EPPO and Europol. The Europol regulation does not yet have such a provision, but it is being amended. Europol shall notify the EPPO of any criminal offences in respect of which it may have jurisdiction. In addition, Europol will support the EPPO within its mandate and with the application of its expertise. To this end, Europol has also recently established a Centre of Expertise on Financial and Economic Crime. To what extent is the EPPO used for development aid? The mandate also includes fraud involving EU funds intended for development aid. Mr. Chairman. Those are the questions I think I had to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u76	In my view, the Minister has not yet answered one question on the December response, in which he expresses his expectation and confidence that there will also be all kinds of workable situations and working arrangements with the non-member Member States. I had asked him what means he would have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u77	What means do I think I have to do that? If it is from the EOM, then that will have to be done on the basis of mutual agreement, because we cannot force the countries that have not joined. What strikes me in conversations with colleagues from some of those countries... When we joined, of course, I was addressed by a number of countries that did not necessarily do so. They asked: what exactly is that about you? I note that countries that do not join are willing to cooperate, but for their reasons they do not want to join the EOM Regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u78	It sounds a little vague. I conclude from this that there is actually no means of actually forcing a non-member Member State to enter into working arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u79	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, However, as I have just said, there may also be an interest in non-participating Member States in a particular case in making working arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u81	We're good to go, Mr. Chairman. There was a break scheduled, but I'm also okay with moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u82	Well, thank you for your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u83	No, no, that's not what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u84	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. I have a short second term. As far as the SGP is concerned, the weak side of this bill remains that it is not possible to say when the EOM has actually become a success. When is the EPPO justified in terms of results? When has the creation of European powers been justified in this area? How can we monitor this without clear indicators in advance? If you don't know where you're going, you're probably going somewhere you don't want to be. In any case, the SGP does not find sufficient basis for setting up a European Public Prosecutor's Office and Dutch participation in it. The SGP has high standards for further enlargement and the development of European competences. As far as we are concerned, this bill does not know how to get over it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u86	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mrs Adriaansen, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for the answer to the questions. I actually only have a question of a more organizational nature. We talk a lot about the legal aspects of the case here, but in my first term I also talked about the various organisations involved in the fight against fraud. It is about OLAF, it is about Eurofisc and you yourself mentioned the expertise centre at Europol for financial crime. The question is more: how are we going to ensure that there is consistency without too much convergence and how are we going to ensure that they do not get in the way of each other? That too is a question we need to look at over time, because experience will teach it. I ask the Minister whether he can confirm that this has his attention and whether we are alert to the efficient use of these resources and the efficient organisation as a whole. I like to close by saying that the EPPO will have to prove itself, like everything that has a new beginning and a new start. My group has confidence in development and we will follow it closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u88	Thank you, Mrs Adriaansens. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I am rather shocked when the Minister says that the priority for tackling EU fraud is actually lacking in all countries. Then I'm thinking, how are you gonna do that? Should you expect everything from a European Public Prosecutor's Office if almost all countries do not pay sufficient attention to this? Then I also wonder if the deeper problem will be solved with an EOM. With reluctant dogs, catching hares is bad. The EPPO may wish, but if all Member States that do not give priority to detecting fraud do not want to do so, then I wonder what the EPPO can do and whether we will not ask the EPPO seriously and organise our own disappointment. Mr. Chairman. I had another question about the mandate. The Minister spoke of unanimity. He said: if you want to change the mandate, you need unanimity from the whole European Council. I'd still like that to be sharp. There are 22 countries participating in the EPPO. If anything were to change that mandate, should all the members of the European Council agree to it, or should only the 22 members who are members of the EPPO and who, on the basis of the regulation, are to form this EPPO? My question about the beacon was actually because of my own experience, particularly with environmental legislation, that at the moment when tasks are shifting, someone else can do it and the capacity is scarce, it is said: beautiful, then we do not have to do it anymore. That's my concern. Does the Minister also see the risk that it will disappear from the radar with its own judicial organisations here in the Netherlands because we have the EPPO for that and that, if it does not, then the conclusion is that it will not be so important and we will not do it either? That would be very unfortunate. Mr. Chairman. Let's get back to the pleas. I referred to the real-estate settlements. When I was sworn in in January 2011, I had a radio interview for the installation. I was asked: what do you think should happen? I said at the time: we must put an end to this kind of settlement, which is simply not clear, because it affects the feeling of justice. The same evening I received a call from the President of the College of Attorneys General, Mr Harm Brouwer. It was mainly about the settlements in real estate cases that were at the time. He explained to me two weeks later that it really had something to do with where to put your priorities, because the capacity was limited. If the Minister has other experiences, I would like to give him that, but these are my own experiences. Mr. Chairman. It will not be surprising that, as in the House of Representatives, I will advise my group to vote against this proposal in this Chamber as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u90	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Finally, Mr Van Hattem has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for replying in the first term. I have not yet heard an answer or a full answer to a few questions. I asked about the status of the opt-outs negotiated by a number of countries, such as Denmark and Ireland. What is the meaning of this and what are the consequences for the implementation of the EPPO? We have already had some discussion about the immunity of governments in the interruptions. I need to fix one thing from my side. I had referred to Rule 19 (1). That was the numbering in an older version of the regulation. In the current version, that is Article 29 (1). In so doing, the EPPO shall be able to request a national authority to waive the immunity of a person or an organisation. My question is: what will the Minister do if there is such a request? I ask that, in view of the previous references, in the written procedure, to the Pikmeer and Volkel judgments, and also in view of the general view that the Dutch national authorities enjoy immunity. For such a request may be made, and it may also concern the national authorities or the local authorities. How is it handled? And how does the Minister foresee that this will work in total, working with other Member States, which may also, with similar case-law or similar legislation, be able to rely on government immunity, knowing that governments themselves distribute and are responsible for a great deal of EU funding? As I indicated in the first period, they are sometimes involved in such fraud cases themselves. I'll join Europol. It is actually very clearly stated that Europol should actively support the EPPO. That "active support" is actually not very specific. Anything can be shaved underneath. I would like to get a little more clarity on that. How can Europol be deployed? How far can that mandate be extended? And what role will the national parliaments still have in monitoring this? For example, will the JPSG, the Joint Parliamentary Scrutiny Group, also have any control over that role of the EPPO vis-à-vis Europol? How are we looking at this? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. I also mentioned in the first term the tweet of the European Public Prosecutor's Office about the Dutch Delegated Prosecutor, who claims to be in negotiations with non-participant Hungary. Of this, the Minister says: it is really up to the EPPO to do so. I think that is a strange idea, because I would say that it is precisely the negotiation of something so politically sensitive with a country that is not a participant that is not a participant that is not the case with the EPPO. So can the Minister give us any further explanation? Why does the Minister believe that it is up to the EOM, not politics, to do something about it? I come to the question of accountability and report to the national parliaments. Apart from the fact that there is also a small gap in the articles between the different versions of the regulation, there is also a bit of a semantic discussion. One article states that the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council are to be held accountable. And the next article says that there is a report to the national parliaments, but they can also organise hearings, for example. Can the Minister explain the difference between "accountability" and "report"? And, for example, can such hearings by national parliaments also be held with the responsibility of the European Chief Prosecutor? Then I have the point of sovereignty. We have just talked about the transactions, about the imposition of decisions. What exactly is the essence of a transaction? It's actually a disguised form of detention. That's what the EOM is pulling at him now. By offering a transaction, a form of punishment is actually imposed on the accused party. That is actually something that should also be common to national authorities, and not to this supranational organisation EOM. So in that sense, this form of "penalty imposition" through a transaction in the core also affects our sovereignty. I would like a response from the Minister to this disguised form of imposition of sanctions in relation to sovereignty. Finally, Mr President. I have not yet received a response from the Minister to my motion. I would also like to comment on that. So far, Chairman, in the second term. The PVV will of course vote against this introduction law for the European Public Prosecutor's Office. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u92	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That is, after placement of the cathedral, of course. Yes, you are. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u93	Mr President, it is a pleasure that you formulated very explicitly 'after the placement of a cathedral'. Because if you, as a doctor, had said "after placement of a catheter," then I would have been very uncomfortable, even before the placement of the relevant one. Anyway, you can see how a spelling error can sometimes have special consequences. Mr. Chairman. I've had a number of questions. I will reply to that and also to Mr Van Hattem's motion. Through you, Mr President, I say to Mr van Hattem that I thought it was procedurally correct to go into that motion in the second term. Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me begin by thanking your Chamber for the fact that we have been able to have this discussion, this debate, together today. I said at the beginning that this is a very important subject. I also understand that there are sharp questions from some of the groups on a number of points. I hope I have been able to respond to that with pleasure, because I remain convinced that the EPPO is also an important asset for our own national rule of law. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with Mrs. Adriaansens. She asked about coherence. Of course I'll take care of that. I will certainly come back to how this coherence can be achieved in the coming period, when the EPPO is actually starting to operate. Mr Janssen van de SP then asked about this unanimity. I repeat: that is Article 86, paragraph 4, of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. This concerns all Member States, including non-participating Member States. I think it's clear that that's what it's all about. We have already had an exchange of views on the transactions. I do not know whether we should go into this further now. Then I've written a few comments digitally, if that's okay with you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr Van Hattem's questions. I would just like to look at whether I had answered Mr Janssen's questions in this way, but I thought I had answered all these questions. Mr Van Hattem had a question and referred to the Pikmeer judgment. In the end, that will also have to be a judge's decision. We will have to look at how case law is going to develop in this respect. The judge in the Netherlands will also have to assess this if necessary. That's one. Two. At least the opt-out can't be right now. This can only be done with any treaty negotiations. This cabinet is not convinced of the usefulness, looking at the experience with Member States that do. Then Europol and extending the mandate. The work agreement between EOM and Europol, thanks to an intervention by the Netherlands, determines that cooperation can only be carried out if both organisations are competent. That is to say, only in the case of EU fraud, not in the case of other forms of crime, for which Europol, for example, does not have the competence to do so. Then there was the point of that EM tweet. Mr Van Hattem came back to that. I would like to stress that I did not say that it is not also useful to talk to certain Member States at the political level in order to convince them of the good idea of participating in the EPPO. However, I thought, in the first period, that if the EPPO itself believes that it is also important from the point of view of legal cooperation, I think it is only right that these talks should take place. Finally, Mr Van Hattem's motion on that exit strategy. In view of what I said earlier, I would advise against Mr Van Hattem's motion with number... I think it says 35429, No. 4. I can't quite read the numbers. However, it must be about this motion, because there are no more motions in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u94	Then it must be him, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u95	You never know in life.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u96	Thank you. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u97	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Two things. I hear the Minister at the point about the immunity of governments saying that it depends on what the judge will do with it. The problem is that Article 29 (1) of the EPPO Regulation states that a request can be made to the national authorities, not so much to the courts but probably to this minister or his successor. It is therefore not up to the court to judge whether immunity is being waived, but in my view it is a political judgment that needs to be judged. The question then is how this is dealt with and what the procedure will be to assess it. The second point concerns the motion. I can hear the minister dissuading her. I'd like to hear a little more of a motivation why it should be dissuaded. In fact, it seems to me very sensible to always have that possibility, especially when the Minister says that if certain developments are to take place in the future with regard to the extension of the mandate in an undesirable direction, then perhaps we should say that we are leaving. Then what is wrong with thinking about a possible exit strategy, so that you can always say: these are the steps we can take to change the treaty to make that exit possible? What's wrong with having everything that's needed worked out at least, so that, if that's the case, we can quickly switch and quickly leave EOM again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u98	For the record, we are discussing the motion for a resolution with letter G (35429). This is for the Acts. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u99	35429. There was a 4, but I understand, Mr. Chairman, that I have to read that 4 as a G. I would like to inform you that the cabinet will comply with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u101	I'm gonna start with that motion anyway. I insist that this is what I have clearly and repeatedly stated in the conversation with Mr Janssen, which is the mandate for the EOM as it is today. Only by unanimity of all Member States can anything change that. Three years ago, we said: we believe that we should go further in this. We still have confidence in that. I also said that the EOM is only slowly coming into operation now. So we can't have an initial assessment of how we feel about it for another year. Then I do not think it is at all appropriate to have the issue of exit strategy on the agenda at all. Moreover, there is no need for an exit strategy at all. For if the Netherlands does not like the fact that, for example, 27 Member States say that we have 28 again; you know but never really want the mandate to be extended, the Netherlands can still say: we do not want it. That's it. That's it. That's it. Please, let's keep life as simple as possible. Those are the two separate arguments but successive ones. Then I come to the question of the waiver of immunity. This must be done in accordance with the national procedures laid down in the Regulation. There aren't any, so we're gonna have to follow the way to the judge here. The Supreme Court established the immunity of the State in a ruling. So that goes simply in the Netherlands through the justice system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u102	Thank you for the Minister's reply. In any case, we now have a clear definition of the competence in the Acts. I think that would be useful anyway. However, I would like to return to the motion for a resolution. The Minister actually says: it is there; the mandate is there, and we do not have to go along with it if we do not want to. But it seems very sensible to me that if you step into a gremium where it can still go in all directions and where it is still uncertain what the developments will be like, you have some sort of valve possibility, so that you at least think about it and have a strategy in mind to determine which directions you have when it goes in an undesirable direction. As far as PVV is concerned, we have already gone in an undesirable direction. However, if the government comes to that conclusion one day, we can say: this will allow us to take the next steps to end a Dutch participation in that EPPO; those, those and those steps are necessary to enable that Treaty amendment to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u103	It is always dangerous, but perhaps also beautiful on a Tuesday afternoon, to work with a metaphor. I have a feeling that Mr Van Hattem is saying to me: 'You have ordered a taxi, and you are going to sit in it now. The route is clear and the destination is clear, but I still have the door in my hand and I say to the driver: driver, I really want to discuss an exit strategy with you first; that is, I really don't want to take this taxi to that destination at all, or at least I really wonder if that is useful, and I actually want to discuss some kind of backup plan." If that taxi is coming and Mr Van Hattem and I are walking there, let's just get very clear about it, and we see that it's an old barrel that's about to fall apart, then I think we should say to each other: we might not have done this. But that is not the case; that is one. That has already been clearly argued, I think. Secondly, we have said together: we are going to make the journey now. In a year's time, we will be able to assess in the first report how things are actually going. We also know that the driver cannot force us halfway to go somewhere else or make stops. We've decided we're gonna go in here. We have very clear objectives and limits on this. That is the unanimity with regard to extending the mandate, which I talked about with Mr Janssen. If you know all that, you're not gonna say before you start the ride, we're gonna start an exit strategy. That is why, even if the motion is not recommended, the other argument I have just mentioned is a little out of the question. I'm not gonna repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u104	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u105	Then I'm gonna stick with the metaphor of that cab. The minister says, "I'm not getting in that cab if it's an old piece of shit." Suppose there is a taxi waiting for you, but the driver says: "You can board, but the taxi goes on the children's lock. I'll decide when that child lock goes off; you can't decide for yourself. We're just gonna keep riding until the end of jut-jut, and you're never gonna be able to take that child lock off his life again. Even if we drive straight to the abyss, you still can't take that child lock off." Then you're wondering, do you want me to get in that cab? And then you think: if I'm going to get in, I want to have an opportunity to get that child lock off somehow and get that door open at some point. Doesn't it make a lot of sense from that metaphor to think about that exit strategy, even if it's just the emergency hammer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u106	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u107	I have to tell you that I may have to make sure that Mr Van Hattem and I order taxis together. I will tell you: if a taxi driver tells me this in advance, I will say: 'Dear friend, I am really going to sit in that taxi of yours'. Imagine, I'm with that back doorman. He gets out the front, and with a chainsaw in his one hand, he says, "Minister, will you get in the back?" And then I say, "We're not gonna do that." But here's the situation. Mr Van Hattem may have voted against, but the majority felt that we should take this taxi together. We are sitting in the back seat, and that taxi driver is not going to set new conditions; he's just going to drive. We knew in advance: that is our destination and this is our route. We had that discussion three years ago. That means you don't have to open the door on the way and throw yourself out of the cab. You and I, Chairman, have seen that together in the cinema, when it was still open, with James Bond and those kind of characters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u108	Together?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u109	Yeah, together. To my great surprise, those people always come out without any injury when they throw themselves out at 120 km/h. Their hair is even fine, but of course you and I have less admiration for it. Anyway, for that story about the child lock, once you're in it and they're gonna change the rules, when they're gonna have kid locks and the driver says, "I'm gonna go with my chainsaw..."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u110	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u111	... and so on, then that's something else. But this wasn't done for the ride. One last thing: if we hear for the driver's ride "you're ordering from our power station now, but we only do taxis with child locks" and we say together "we're going to do that," then we have to do that too. If Mr Van Hattem considers the unanimity requirement to be a child's lock, then I say: I think it is a very good conclusion, because it means that nothing can be forced on us. Imagine that child lock isn't there and suddenly a very scary guy gets in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u112	Thank you, Minister. Just before the Acts: you may not mean "together" but "both."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u113	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u114	That we didn't see James Bond together, we both saw James Bond. At least I have no memory of "together."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u115	Mr President, I know from previous Acts that we have once seen simultaneously, but in completely different places, with completely different company and with different kinds of popcorn James Bond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u116	That's not "together." Mr. Van Hattem, really, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u117	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. At the moment the taxi was there, the Minister decided to board. As PVV we said: we are not getting in there, because we have already seen that chainsaw in the car and we do not trust it. Of course, the question remains what you're talking about in front of that chainsaw. Where's the emergency hammer? I still miss the emergency sledgehammer to get out of the cab when we hit the plump. That is basically the thrust of the motion: at least indicate where the emergency hammer is, so that we can get out if we need to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u118	I don't think you're getting any closer to each other than you are now, so maybe it's good to close this down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u119	There are taxis with a spacious back seat, so we can fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u120	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-09-eerstekamer-12.u121	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. I also propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled. The debate on the displacement test will be continued at 5.30 p.m. In the Noenzaal the dinner boxes are now ready for you. I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 5:30 p.m.
