ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on Afghan interpreters. I would like to welcome the Secretary of Defense, the members and the viewers at home. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA. Everyone's got two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Since I only have two minutes, I'll start reading my motion straight away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch contribution to the mission in Afghanistan will end on 4 July;]] [[noting that the Belhaj c.s. motion (35300-X, No. 44) called on the Government to align the interpretation protection policy with the EASO Country Guidance on Afghanistan and to consider them systematically persecuted;]] [[Considering that the way in which the interpretation arrangements are implemented is also crucial for security during and the impact of future military missions and the willingness of interpreters to work for Defence;]] [[Considering that the situation of military interpreters in Afghanistan is a matter of life or death;]] [[considers that the Dutch authorities have a heavy responsibility to ensure that the interpreters and their families concerned are brought to safety in good time;]] [[calls on the Government to use every opportunity, before the end of the Dutch presence, to ensure that Afghan interpreters and their families are in the Netherlands, by actively approaching all interpreters, regardless of how long they have worked for Defence, actively supporting the people concerned by obtaining identity documents, including through friendly embassies, consulates and military bases, to simplify and shorten the process wherever possible, if necessary to pick up the people and to develop an evacuation plan based on the principle of "no man left behind behind" in the event of further deterioration of the security situation on the ground,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Belhaj, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Ceder, Mr Kuzu, Mr Bromet and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u3	The motion, which is very much appreciated by the way, states 'all interpreters'. I assume that means all the interpreters who are covered by the interpretation system, i.e. the 273 interpreters as referred to in the motion previously adopted. Can that be confirmed? Another point I'd like to make right away is about picking up. What's that supposed to mean? There are distances of up to 800 kilometers between different places where interpreters sit and where the Dutch are now. That road is partly in the hands of the Taliban. Nor is it intended to give covert orders for new military missions here, I suppose. So pick up where?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you for these questions. You're right, it's good to clear up a little bit. As far as the interpretations are concerned, it is of course the interpreters who are eligible for the interpretation arrangements. That is why we have included the reference to Mr Belhaj's motion. So that goes without saying. It doesn't say "active pick-up." It says, "If necessary, by picking them up." I think it is also clear that this must be a guarantee of safety and of the possibilities that exist there. That goes without saying. In any case, we would like to leave the option open that if necessary, if they are in the area from which they cannot travel to Kabul, you will actively pick them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u5	Finally, Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u6	The first point is clear. With regard to the second point, 'picking up if necessary': the whole point is, of course, that the need in Afghanistan is very high. But the plan is that the Dutch soldiers are just leaving. So we can't start raising expectations here that we're not gonna live up to. If we leave there, we cannot say that we are sending Dutch soldiers to certain places. Can Mrs Piri indicate that this is not the intention at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u7	Look, the first sentence of the operative part is: asks the government to use all the possibilities before the end of the Dutch presence to bring the interpreters who are eligible to the Netherlands. Within this frame of reference this sentence is also meant: to collect them if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mrs Piri. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to welcome the Minister not only but also to thank him for all the information we have had on this issue. Also for the detailed technical briefing, so we know what we are talking about. Therefore, in order to stay within the time limit, I would like to read out two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Dutch interpreters are the ears and eyes of the mission on the spot;]] [[whereas Afghan interpreters risked their own lives and that of their families in the service of the Dutch army;]] [[noting that the Dutch army is understaffed and recruits staff;]] [[invites the government, if the Afghan interpreters come here, to give them the opportunity to be trained in the service of the Dutch army,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government of Afghan interpreters who worked for the Dutch army and brought their family members to the Netherlands;]] [[having noted that under the resettlement programme, the Netherlands annually invites 500 refugees to settle in the Netherlands, training and accompanying them;]] [[Whereas Afghan interpreters and members of their families meet in many respects the criteria on the basis of which refugees are invited to resettlement;]] [[calls on the government to take the Afghan interpreters and their family members to the Netherlands not separately but as part of the existing resettlement programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-96]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is very important for us that the interpreters who helped us receive full support from the Dutch Government. We have co-signed the motion that Mrs Piri has just explained. We wholeheartedly support them. We hope that the Minister will take that with him and appreciate it positively. We also stated during the debate that we consider it very important that contact be made with the other armed forces in good time. During the debate, the Minister indicated that contact would still be made on the same day. I would like to hear what progress has been made on this, especially since it is not right for people to fall apart because of bureaucratic deficits or too many mills. We can't let that happen. That is also why I hope that the Minister can indicate and assure us that interpreters who have worked for several military forces will not fall apart and that a solution will be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Boswijk of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have talked a lot about this subject over the past week. It is also a very important subject, because, of course, the interpreters have been crucial to the mission in Afghanistan and have run the risk of their own lives and futures, as well as those of their families. They have been committed to the importance of the mission. That's commendable. I would also like to thank the Minister from this place for all the information. As far as we are concerned, it has become clear that this is a top priority. At the same time, we have also seen the importance of this as a Chamber. I was too late, because Mrs Piri was already standing here, but we are submitting the motion with the explicit explanation that this cannot lead to a new military effort, with risks again for the lives of other soldiers. In addition, we have another motion. We've seen lately that this subject is very much alive with veterans. They are volunteering for these interpreters. That is why we are tabling another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch contribution to the mission in Afghanistan will end on 4 July;]] [[Considering that Afghan interpreters have been of crucial value for the mission;]] [[Notes that Afghanistan veterans are currently supporting Afghan interpreters in the Netherlands on a voluntary basis;]] [[Whereas good guidance from Dutch veterans can contribute to the integration of Afghan interpreters and their families;]] [[calls on the Government to actively support the Afghan veterans who want to help and support the interpreters in this important work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Boswijk, Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-98]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Belhaj, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u15	Sometimes it happens in the Chamber that we are united. Those are actually incredibly beautiful moments. We have actually tried, with a great many different spokesmen, to put forward one good motion, with the support of the Minister, the armed forces and the Afghan interpreters radiating that we are doing this together as a Chamber. Now I hear this and I think: yes, it might be nice if this could be included in the mother of mother emotions, because then we still have that unity. My question is, in fact, whether Mr Boswijk would like to include what he is asking for in this other motion, if necessary, so that we can table it unanimously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u16	I'm always in favour of good proposals. I'll hand over my motion to you in a moment. If you're gonna tap her in, I'm totally okay with that. Perfect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u17	Very nice, thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mrs Belhaj of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. I've got a lot of motions. No, I am very glad that there is one very good motion to radiate that unity that I think is really needed. In November 2019, my motion was also passed to my positive alarm, which finally allowed the Minister to ensure that there were no obstacles and Afghan interpreters were seen as a risk group. We're a year and a half away, I was incredibly angry yesterday, and I still am. This morning, I was wondering why I'm actually angry. I realize more than ever that it would have been useful if the Netherlands had just offered contracts from day one and the Afghan interpreters had identified them as a risk group. Because perhaps we would have had a problem now, but not with so many interpreters. I really think that is a bad thing, so I hope that we, as a chamber for the next missions, will be able to deal with this differently in my motion at the time. Now, under the influence of the withdrawal in an enormous hurry, it is simply important that as many interpreters as possible can come here. Furthermore, I realized the following this morning. We have had a number of debates here in Parliament about the Bosman Committee, the Van Dam Committee, about rules, about people being subjected to oppression. I think it is important that we try to apply this as much as possible to everything we do, that we do not think alone: it concerns social affairs, so we all sit on it all the time. Because these Afghan interpreters are at risk for their lives, and so are their families. I ask the Minister to try the following. What we're doing right now is stuffing people into rules. Those rules are there for a reason, but this is a group where it actually doesn't fit well every time. That is why I ask the Minister to put the rules aside, to underline that, I am now tearing a piece of paper by taking a blank sheet and looking at which group it is going to be, inventing the rules and creating the conditions that are necessary and which can also ensure that they get there. I challenge the Minister to rip through a lot of papers and to make the most of his efforts to ensure that these people can come to the Netherlands safely and safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD and then to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to hear from the Minister, in response to the motion tabled by Mrs Piri cum suis, that the motion is therefore only interpreted as referring to the interpreters covered by the already existing interpretation arrangements. I also ask how the point of collection will be explained. In any case, it must not be interpreted in the sense of extra missions or military commitment, because the road between Mazar-e-Sharif and Uruzgan is, I believe, 800 kilometres long and partly in the hands of the Taliban. So then we raise expectations that we can't live up to. I would like a reflection from the Minister on that important point for us. Then I would like to come to that point about translations, the official translations. I asked about that yesterday. The Minister was very clear about this very quickly and orally: no, that is really a demand of the Afghan government and not of the Dutch. Yesterday we had contact with a number of experts, including academics, among others from the University of York. They have said: we do not recognize at all that this would be a demand of the Afghan government. If, therefore, that is an exit condition for everyone from Afghanistan, can the Minister assure me here that the interpreters who worked for the French and went by plane to France all had to have such a legalized translation? After all, it is an exit condition for the Afghan government. So please answer yes or no. If that answer cannot be given with yes or no, then I hope the Minister will look at this again, because that would mean that you can speed up the process by simply temporarily putting an official translator at that embassy. It's not that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u21	There is another question from Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u22	I have a very collegiate question, because I see that Mr Van Wijngaarden really needs to talk very quickly. Suppose Mr Van Wijngaarden would have more time, would he give a further explanation of what he asked? Or was there enough room to ask what he wanted to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u23	Thank you for the peer question. I can see the chairman looking hard. In particular, I have tried to make it compact when it comes to translation. I appreciate the Minister's rapid response yesterday. So I do not want to be too faint about that if it turns out to be wrong. But if, as a Chamber, we assume too easily that it is true when it is actually wrong, then we also rule out the possibility that Minister Kaag will see if we can put someone at that embassy temporarily to meet those requirements of official translation more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u24	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be brief, because wise words have already been spoken. I would like to highlight that this is quite a special debate, because I believe that you see parliamentary support and a Chamber-wide appeal to the Minister to show greater urgency on this incredibly important issue. Indeed, we had a very important meeting with experts last night. That was very impressive. I thought, if the Minister had listened to this, she would now have to go full-bodied for that motion I am under. We have made that motion as broad as possible. That's pretty special. Usually you still have a difference between opposition and coalition and a lot of polarization, but here I feel a commonality. I'd like to emphasize that. Then you have the matter of picking up. I understand the questions that have been asked about that. I fully agree with Mrs Piri's answer on these questions. I'd like to ask the Minister a question. Suppose there was another Dutchman in Afghanistan somewhere, I think this minister would take a lot out of the box to get that Dutchman to safety. I ask her whether she is doing the same for the interpreters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u26	Thank you. Then I'll see if the minister's willing to answer right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u27	I need to talk to JenV, because I have a motion from Mr Eppink on JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u28	I understand the dilemma. I'll give you a little time to work that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u29	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I liked the fact that we all stress the importance of this, as Mrs Piri said first. That's what I said yesterday. I share the concerns of the Chamber about the interpreters. I've always done that, by the way. Also from the Belhaj motion we worked on acceleration within what we could then. I also sent you the answers in writing last night, as promised, with the short form and the contacts with the English. I will answer Mr Van Wijngaarden's questions in this way. It requires an effort from all of us, from Foreign Affairs, from Mrs Kaag, from Mrs Broekers-Knol, who was just here before me, from the Afghans and from the interpreters themselves, to achieve this as quickly as possible. I'm just taking your profession very seriously. There were still a few questions connected with the motion in part No. 95. I'll take it with me on that motion. A number of things can be done and a number of things cannot be done. I have to keep saying this in advance. I have, of course, indicated in the letter what possibilities we still see. We've been consulting with the State Department. We have also indicated that the issue of laissez-passers is not a solution. But my colleague from the Foreign Office will certainly contact the Afghan authorities. That is an answer to Mr Van Wijngaarden's question to see if we can still speed up. I also thought it was a good option for those interpreters to put the sworn translators there, but they appear to be all over the country. That is even better, because the process is digital in the first instance. But after all, we have an embassy there. I have also written this down to the Foreign Minister, Mr Delors, who will consult with the Afghan authorities to see where the processes can be speeded up on that side. Then the motion to part No. 95. I'm gonna have to put my glasses on for that. It is indeed a good thing that there can be a motion on this point with parliamentary support, because the government, the cabinet, and the Chamber really share the urgency. I was asked how to explain a number of parts. That was already asked for by Mrs Piri, but Mr Van Wijngaarden also asked me. I could take over the motion. That's how I see it. It says, "if necessary, to pick up the people." If necessary, we can pick up people in one place, Kabul airport. This can be done if there are no more flights, if charters are no longer possible, et cetera. But this is how I explain it in case of extreme necessity, and not with a military operation in an enemy environment, because that is simply not possible. So I'll explain the motion in a minute. I see there's nodding. Then it is quite possible to do so. I assume that is what Mrs Piri meant by security and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u31	The Piri c.s. motion. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch contribution to the mission in Afghanistan will end on 4 July;]] [[noting that the Belhaj c.s. motion (35300-X, No. 44) called on the Government to align the interpretation protection policy with the EASO Country Guidance on Afghanistan and to consider them systematically persecuted;]] [[Considering that the way in which the interpretation arrangements are implemented is also crucial for security during and the impact of future military missions and the willingness of interpreters to work for Defence;]] [[Considering that the situation of military interpreters in Afghanistan is a matter of life or death;]] [[Considering that Afghanistan veterans are currently on a voluntary basis supporting Afghan interpreters in the Netherlands and that good guidance from Dutch veterans can contribute to the integration of Afghan interpreters and their families;]] [[considers that the Dutch authorities have a heavy responsibility to ensure that the interpreters and their families concerned are brought to safety in good time;]] [[Calls on the Government to use every opportunity, before the end of the Dutch presence, to ensure that Afghan interpreters and their families are in the Netherlands, by actively approaching all interpreters, regardless of how long they have worked for Defence, actively supporting the people concerned by obtaining identity documents, including through friendly embassies, consulates and military bases, to simplify and shorten the process wherever possible, if necessary to pick up the people, as well as Afghanistan veterans who want to actively assist interpreters in their important work, and to develop an evacuation plan based on the principle of "no man left behind" in the event of further deterioration of the security situation on the ground,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] She's getting No. , was No. 95 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u32	I thought: this is a very good indication that the Chamber and the Cabinet agree on this point. That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u33	I'm glad the Minister's taking over the motion. In fact, I thought the comments on safeguards were very important. But I thought, and others also thought: it is good to offer space, with all guarantees of safety, because it is quite something if one wanted and we have not given space to do so without a mission to do things when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u34	That is how I place the motion tabled in part No. 95 out, too. It's not a military operation. That doesn't mean that no Hercules plane or anything can be sent to an airport that is open. I must say that this is also one of the problems. A number of members of your Chamber also asked for coordination with partners. It is not always faster to evacuate in consultation, because then you will have additional links. Two airports are currently open in Afghanistan, in Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif. Looks like Mazar-e-Sharif will close when we're gone. The Chamber also has a briefing on this at the end of the day, I think. So we must also use the Kabul airport, which in itself is easier and faster to pick up in this case, because there is the embassy there. So I'd like to take over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u35	The amended motion in part No. 99 is being taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u36	Then the motion to part No. 96 by Mr Eppink. I had to take a look at that. No, that was about the motion in part No. 97. First, the motion in part No. 96, in which the government is asked to retrain the interpreters and employ the Dutch army when they are here. That sounds very sympathetic to me to do so, I must say. In principle, there are always opportunities for local authorities to retrain, because when they come here they go into the fast track. That's normal policy. They can only not be hired by the Dutch army. You need Dutch nationality for that. That's the law, so it won't work, no matter how sympathetic. I thought I'd actually link the motion to the motion in part No. 98, inviting the government to actively support Afghanistan veterans who want to help and support the interpreters in this important work. There are many veterans who want to do this. I think it would be easier for us to get Afghan interpreters who come here with their families to work. But I need the motion in part no. 96 dissuaded. They need Dutch nationality. It is not possible in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u37	The motion in part No. 96 is not recommended in this form. Mr Eppink has the suggestion that the motion on item No. Ninety-eight to sign with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u38	Yes, but that was again the subject of the discussion that it should be included in the overall motion. I haven't seen that motion yet, so I can deal with the motion in part no. 98 leave the judgment to the Chamber. I think it is right that Mr Boswijk, Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Ceder should quote this in this form. There are a lot of veterans who want to do this, including through the Veterans Institute. I'll see how that goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u39	The motion in part No. 98 will at least be judged Chamber. It's up to the proposers how to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u40	Then the motion to part No. 97. That's really JenV's territory, but I'm also here on behalf of the State Department and JenV. That's good to know. I had to talk to you about that. It's up to the Secretary of State for JenV. This will not be possible because the interpreters are not refugees at the moment. Because they're still in Afghanistan. The resettlement programme is intended for people who are already in another country, so they are still in their own country. So I must discourage this motion. But it won't go any faster. Because Mr Eppink's intention was to get speed, and that will not work in this case. This motion must be rejected on behalf of JenV and myself, and on behalf of the cabinet. I'll see if there were any questions. There is one more question from Mr Van Wijngaarden. I'm gonna go stand by another microphone, 'cause I'll be able to get a better look at it. This one's a little too high. Indeed, in accordance with the commitment I made, I immediately contacted the English. At least my people did. I wrote to you what I know about it. The demands are really the same for all countries, otherwise we wouldn't have written them. That's what we're assuming. I do not know which experts you have spoken to, but we will look into this. This is what we know now, and I've written it, but I can think about what you're saying. I must tell you that the French have left Afghanistan since 2014. It may be that they had different rules for that. You have to realize that. I don't know. And I don't know what you heard either, so I find that complicated, but I indicated what I could say to your question. Our people are gonna keep following this. That is how I agreed with Mr Kaag from the State Department. State will do its best to see what can happen there. It's also in the letter you used yesterday. This way, in its entirety, we can make as much speed as possible. The urgency is great in all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u41	No, Mr. Van Wijngaarden, let's not have that discussion here again. I'm saying that because of time. You can just pass on your signal. The minister wrote what she wrote. That concludes this debate. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u42	We are going to vote today on the motions that have been tabled. I shall suspend the sitting for a single moment, so that we can start the Corona debate in time.
