ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35628, Amendment to Book 2 of the Civil Code in order to make the relationship between the number of men and women in the board and the supervisory board of large public limited companies and private companies more balanced. I would once again like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection and the Minister for Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karimi on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, a coincidence, but appropriate, that the first legislative proposal that we are discussing in this Chamber after the summer recess of 2021 concerns improving the position of women. In recent weeks, we have witnessed developments that will turn the relationship between Western democracies and autocratic governments in the world, in the Middle East and Central Asia upside down. The return of the Taliban regime and their initial actions in Afghanistan have shown once again how religious, deeply-conservative and extremist forces regard the bodies, ambitions and position of women as one of the main battlefields for their domination. Dignity and violence against women in various forms are increasing on a daily basis, both in Afghanistan and elsewhere. While the army and the police, who were trained for years and equipped with the most modern weapons, saw no motivation to fight the Taliban, we see women who see their dignity, their humanity and their future in danger go out into the streets and fight with nothing more than their voices with women haters. Even though we are discussing today a bill on increasing the number of women in the top positions of Dutch business, and even though women in this country have come a long way in their fight for equal rights, women worldwide are essentially fighting one and the same battle: fighting against thousands of years of disadvantage, oppression and injustice, which have been done to them on behalf of religions and traditions. Female leaders who have their own style and who do not want to play the power game in this country according to male methods, are also having a very difficult time here. They are treated disrespectfully by some and are sometimes described as witches without embarrassment. In this context, the present legislative proposal is just another step in reducing gender inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u4	I would like to ask Mrs Karimi whether, instead of fighting for this non-issue, it is not much better to fight much more for the fundamental rights of women who are trampled on in Islamic countries in particular. Is it not better to worry about this rather than about highly skilled women in the Netherlands who are not given a well-paid job in the business world?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u5	I would like Mr Van Kesteren to listen carefully once to what I am saying. I've just made the connection to show women's struggle is a continuous struggle. That may be in terrible situations, as we have seen in Afghanistan, but it may also be unequal treatment in the most developed countries, in rich countries. It doesn't matter. It's one fight, and it just goes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u6	Last question, Mr President. Should we not think more proportionately and be concerned in the Netherlands about women's rights in the base rather than at the top? After all, that's what it starts with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u7	I don't see the contradiction between the base and the top. I find it, quite frankly, questionable that a law is needed to achieve this. The companies should have done that a long time ago. The law comes now, because the companies haven't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u8	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. Anyone who looks at the figures relating to women at the top of the Dutch industry will soon see the need for this proposal. The Dutch Female Board Index 2021, which includes research into gender relationships in Dutch listed companies, indicates that only 13% of directors and 33% of directors of listed companies are women. It is also stated that 73% of companies do not have women on the boards of directors and 17% of companies do not have women on the boards of directors. Over the past decade, several attempts have been made to promote diversity at the top of business, including through a mandatory diversity policy in the Corporate Governance Code and with the legal target scheme, to work towards 30% women at the top. Now, eight years after the entry into force of the latter, we can see that this measure has not had much impact. The more balanced distribution envisaged by the target scheme has not yet been sufficiently achieved. Especially since the expiry of the scheme on 1 January, the growing trend in the appointment of female directors has flattened. In my group's view, therefore, a new and more effective regulation is certainly necessary. It's time. Mr. Chairman. The proposal for a third women's growth quota for supervisory boards of listed companies is a good start. There are still major inequalities in PVCs too. My group understands the government's intention to bring about the growth of women on board boards through the IVCs, which play a role in the appointment or nomination of board members. However, this seems insufficient to us. The percentage of women in stainless steel in listed companies is alarmingly low by over 13%. The flattening of this increase gives no confidence that this bill will soon change. Can the directors undertake that after five years the evaluation will specifically analyse whether there is a correlation between the percentage of women in R &amp; D and the appointment of women in R &amp; D? Based on this, can the assumption of growth from RP to RP be re-assessed? Should the expected growth in R &amp; D from R &amp; D to R &amp; D not occur, will this result be in the form of new policies? I'd like a response. Of course, this proposal also raises the thorny issue of the male quota. So far, the government's answers to questions about the legality of including a male quota in this bill are not convincing. Of course, it cannot be that the Council of State, the Human Rights College and the Joke Smit Foundation are wrong. My group would like to vote in favour of this legislative proposal, but we are reluctant to adopt a law in which there are serious doubts as to legality. In short, the following is the biggest save. The Minister failed to explicitly assess the male quota against the criteria set by the Court of Justice for preferred recruitment and selection policies, namely a requirement of probability, due diligence, a requirement of proportionality and a requirement of awareness. In the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, it is highly unlikely that a male quota will meet the requirement of probability, given that men have not experienced long-term and structural under-representation for these functions, nor that the requirement of proportionality is met, given the degree of backwardness of the target group, namely men, who should be able to justify the measure. How do the Ministers judge this criticism? Can the Ministers in the response explicitly assess the men's quota in the proposal against the Court's criteria? This is a key issue in today's debate. We would like to see more clarity about this. In my group's view, problems can also arise in the practical implementation of the men's quota. For example, under a male quota it would no longer be possible for a company to have only women on its supervisory board, for example because the company in question is committed to promoting female leadership. In my group's view, this is a very undesirable effect within the wider context of overall underrepresentation of women in top positions in business. How do the directors assess this possible consequence of the male quota? Mr. Chairman. The other part of the bill is introducing a target scheme for about 5,000 large companies. The expiry of the previous 30% target scheme and its replacement in the present proposal by a vaguely defined "appropriate and ambitious target" and an accompanying plan may, my group fears, even reduce the incentive to increase female participation in top positions compared to the situation at the time of the target scheme. Why did the government see the need to abandon the 30% target? In the answers to written questions from Senator Sent to clarify "an appropriate and ambitious target," ministers write that "appropriate" means "taking into account the size of R &amp; D and sub-top in the sector" and that "ambitious" means a more balanced relationship. Mr President, you will hear: that is all very vague. I'd like a response. A lack of diversity is not only a problem in the business community, but also a problem in the women's and men's relationships. In the public and semi-public sectors, too, there is a terrifyingly slowly changing summit. White, male and straight are as categories also dominant there. In its written reply, the Minister stated that the opinion on this matter issued by the Vinkenburg Advisory Group is being discussed with institutions and umbrella organisations. Can the rulers provide more information on how these talks have been conducted and what ideas and concrete follow-up steps have been taken or will be taken? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Discrimination, exclusion and unequal rights stand in the way of the creation of a just society. In addition, it is very important for the well-being and prosperity of a society to make use of the full potential of talent of all inhabitants, regardless of their differences. The summit of business must be a reflection of our society, not only because it is right and fair, but also because it makes economic sense. I await the answers of the rulers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. Mr Van Kesteren on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u11	I hear Mrs Karim talking about man-woman in balance. Can Mrs Karim explain why this is not at odds with the favourite theme of GroenLinks, namely gender neutrality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u12	What do you mean by gender neutrality? My party has always made it very clear that there are no just gender relationships. That's the point. We know that there are differences. Differences between men and women, in the way they are treated, in the way they are assigned positions. There's a difference between white and black. There's a difference between straight and non- straight. In that respect, I do not understand your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u13	Let me clarify the question. The policy has been used very often by GroenLinks, among others. Let me give you an example. Gender-neutral toilets. No difference between girls and boys. No difference between men and women. In your speech, you are referring to the need to balance the gender balance. I don't see that connection with gender neutrality. I would have liked you to explain to me why, on the one hand, you give priority to gender-neutrality policies, but then, in your speech, you suddenly talk about the need to balance the balance between men and women.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u14	Finally, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u15	That gives me reason to ask the Minister a question. One point that you are making is, in my opinion, a very good point, which is that we see again that it is binary, while there are also people who may not see themselves in the position of man or woman, such as transgenders, and who define themselves in a different way. It is true that we are in favour of people being able to define their identity for themselves and that if they feel neither husband nor wife, they can express it and society respects it. However, there is inequality, unequal opportunities and unequal treatment between men and women. And that doesn't go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u16	I hear Mrs Karimi say something very alarming in the tail of her speech, namely that it is necessary for the equal rights of men and women. I wonder if Mrs Karimi believes that there are no equal rights for men and women.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u17	It is one that there are equal rights on paper. There are, and you can force them here, but equal treatment is something else. Unequal treatment is that because you're a woman, you're treated differently in society than if you were a man. And what's certainly happening with these top functions I've come across a lot of these high-ranking guys is that they have a lot of confidence in actually copies of themselves. So if you have a selection committee that consists of a certain kind of people, let's say men will be much more likely to appoint a man in the next position when such a selection process takes place. That is actually what this point is about. That's what we want to break through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u18	Then I'm reassured. Then I think we agree that there is no unequal rights in the country, but that there is supposedly unequal treatment. That's a really different story. What fascinates me is that focus on the top and the top tracks. I see a horrible underrepresentation of women in the garbage disposal. Then why aren't we talking about that right now? Why doesn't GroenLinks have an interest in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u19	Oh, no, that's what GroenLinks really cares about. I have to say, I don't have a focus on top women either. It's just something that's going on right now. This bill is about that. We'll talk about that. But when you talk about emancipation, equal treatment and equal opportunities for women, I agree with you that there is an incredible amount of work to be done, including in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u20	Finally, Mrs Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u21	I understand that, but I see a selectivity there. In both this bill and in my term of office, I will be able to do so, as well as in the attitude of a party like GroenLinks, it is always all about top positions, high jobs, well-paid things, high profile, but it is never about, for example, the lack of men in kindergarten class. So is it about equal treatment or is it just about whining that women should get on nice jobs more easily?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u22	Mrs. Nanninga, I'm really sorry to hear you say that. The fight for women's rights, emancipation of women, is one of the reasons why when I came to the Netherlands, I was attracted to GroenLinks. That is the place where there has always been a fight for the position of women, including undocumented women and also women who come from elsewhere, who do not end up at the top, but at the very bottom of society. You may not see that, but that is GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u23	I am also inclined to continue on this subject. Because in other debates we have also talked about the fact that it is not a question of whether a person is a man or a woman, but of how he feels. So how do we get a judgment on how people feel on a supervisory board? Would Mrs Karimi care to reflect on that? I have a second question. This has to do with the conclusion of Mrs Karimi's speech. As far as I can remember, she said that it would be economically reinforcing if the number of men and the number of women at the top of a company were equal. What does Mrs Karimi base this statement on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u24	Mrs Karimi, may I ask you to reply briefly? Otherwise, we're gonna be running very late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u25	Well, I think it's great that I get this question, I have to say...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u26	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u27	... because that gives room to clarify precisely those points. The point is that we have a history of thousands of years in which binary thinking about man-woman has been dominant. And we also know who has had the power for thousands of years, not only in this part of the world, but everywhere in the world. We still live in a society that puts you in boxes: you're a woman, you're a man. And we know that, on this basis, discrimination and exclusion are also taking place. So, yeah, I'm in favour of people defining themselves. I couldn't agree more. But at the same time, I say: we live in a reality where you are placed in booths, where discrimination and exclusion are facts. That's why I think it's very good that the man-woman story is arranged here. But once again, I ask the government: what about the visibility of the people who define themselves differently? Your next question is really about diversity. In my opinion, there are many studies which show that the economic performance of companies increases as soon as there is a diverse workforce, both in management positions and in other staff. When men, women and people with different cultural backgrounds are represented, there are different perspectives in the discussions in the boardrooms and you make the best decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u28	Thank you. Can we have one question, Mrs. Nanninga?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u29	There's one question. It's embroidering a little on my predecessor's point. What Mrs Karimi is saying is not true. I'd like to ask her if she's familiar with the study of Wharton University in Pennsylvania. Management professor Katherine Klein has done a very large meta-study on all those studies in which it is said that women in the board are doing so much better. And what does it turn out to be? It's not true. It doesn't matter. It takes a bit far to go into the details here, but the assumption is not correct. Is Mrs Karimi aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u30	I am not familiar with that research, but I am familiar with dozens of other studies in which the opposite is proven. I am prepared to compare these studies; that is fine. But if Mrs Nanninga has listened carefully, she has heard that I said that it is primarily about 'right and just', and then it is also about 'economically meaningful'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u31	Thank you. Mrs Nanninga would like to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u32	Yeah, I'd like to ask one follow-up question anyway. So I'm talking about a meta-study. Therefore, it is not an issue that is apparent from one study A and from the other study B. The competition has already been done for you. And so it's not true; it just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u33	You're gonna look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u34	I can't confirm that, so I'll just leave it on Mrs. Nanninga's behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u35	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sent, on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When our Prime Minister was allowed to assemble his third cabinet in 2017, the lack of women ministers and secretaries of the VVD stood out. He would have been looking for them, he assured, but it was ultimately about quality. However, the problem is that quality is considered by a sex glasses. Scientific research shows that men are seen more quickly as inspiring and powerful, while we see women as less competent. Experiments show that when there is only one female applicant on a job vacancy, the lady is assessed lower than the men. If three or more women apply for a job, the job is assessed lower. The ideal candidate is a clone. For example, it has been shown that people subconsciously seek similarities when they meet a stranger. It makes us feel safer. We subconsciously and sometimes unjustly attribute the same competences to that person. If the team consists largely of men, they often see more similarities in a man and are more likely to accept him. The result is the so-called cat and dog dilemma. How can a cat stand in a dog world? Either the cat adapts and becomes a strange dog, or the cat remains a cat and falls outside the group. If you're a woman competing with men, you're considered competent but unlikable. If you don't, you'll be found nice but incompetent. You can't possibly do it right. One woman can't make a difference. That requires 30% to 35% women, according to scientific research. A critical majority within a team is needed to bring women to justice. Only then will women be seen as individuals instead of women. Otherwise, as a woman, you remain an outsider, while the male standard dominates with male manners. The standard changes only when a minority group exceeds 30% to 35%. Mr. Chairman. No less than twelve years ago, the House of Representatives approved PvdA's amendment Paul Kalma for legally anchored targets for women in top positions. The decision is that e.g. with more than 250 employees, a woman should have 30% of their top positions. If not, the company will be required to provide a statement and, where appropriate, to submit an improvement plan. Since the target was far from achieving the desired result, the PvdA did not exclude a legally required quota. In 2009, 3% of directors of listed companies were women. Now that's over 12%. In supervisory boards, the percentage of women is much higher, 30% compared with 8% in 2005, according to the Female Board Index. The conclusion of the Business Monitor Top Women 2020 of January this year was clear: the increase in the number of women in top positions is too slow. A large group of companies have not yet moved to meet the targets set. Mixed teams deliver the best results. That is why it is necessary to turn the men's world into the peaks of business. In addition, women's representation on top positions also ensures female role models, which break the stereotype of the white straight man as a driver. It is a missed chance that we do not make the most of our female labour potential. For this reason, the PvdA Group sees the aim of the present legislative proposal, namely to ensure a more balanced relationship between men and women at the top of companies as an important step towards achieving equal opportunities for women in the labour market. We regret that we have had to wait so long for this. However, we still have some criticisms of the legislative proposal before us and we would like to ask for clarification on some points.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u37	Of course, I also think it is a huge sin if the female workforce is not sufficiently exploited, because I take women very seriously and I think that women have that potential too. But does Mrs Sent not agree with me that women themselves do not make sufficient use of their labour resources, since the Dutch women are part-time world champions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u38	The problem is greater than the legislative proposal we are discussing today. I also think it is important that we tackle part-time culture and ensure that women are financially independent. Women save and masse too little for their retirement. Women's financial independence is a problem that needs to be addressed. Another issue, which we are not discussing today and which is also important, is the position of women in the labour market in general. It is good that we pay attention to top women, which is important for business results, but it is also about women across the board. That is why we have also tabled legislative proposals on parental leave and partner leave and look at how we distribute the tax. The fact that I am enthusiastic about a female quota does not mean that I am not enthusiastic about addressing the other issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u39	That's right. Well, thank God we're on the same page. Saves another sip on a drink. But the fact is, of course, that if Dutch women work a huge amount of part-time, the pool from which you can fish for top jobs that we are talking about in this bill is much smaller. Of course, that's not fair at all. Then you've got like ten men working full-time and maybe three women doing that. If you make that chance fifty-fifty or two thirds/a thirds, then you are very much favouring women for something they can do about themselves, namely the choice to work full-time. How does Mrs Sent reconcile this with this preferred policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u40	Mrs Nanninga referred earlier to scientific research which shows that it is not yet certain whether business results are getting better. This is mainly dependent on accompanying policies. A quota for top women is not enough, you also need accompanying policies, you need scouting and talent, you need to create a culture in which it is attractive. This has to do with the quality of childcare and with the opening hours of public services. I am glad that Mrs Nanninga is asking for this, because I will come back to that in my speech, in which I ask what accompanying policy we can expect from the Cabinet to address the wide-ranging problem, which is really wider than what we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u41	Then I suggest we wait and see. Mrs. Sent will come back to it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u42	Mr. Chairman. The need for the proposed male quota is not sufficiently substantiated. The explanatory memorandum only refers to the under-representation of women in support of the need for the legislative proposal. On the one hand, the government states that this problem of under-representation applies only to women, and on the other hand, the government does not limit the proposal to a quota for this group. That is why I ask the Ministers to support the need for a male quota. If men are overrepresented at the moment, what is the legitimacy for adding a male quota? The Joke Smit Foundation also criticises the male quota. It states that the government confuses purpose and means here. It is positive about the aim of at least one third of men and one third of women in the relevant supervisory boards, but it points out that the quota, which is seen as a heavy form of preferential treatment, cannot be used in the same way. There must be considerable structural backwardness in this respect. How do the ministers react to this criticism? With these criticisms in mind, the PvdA Group would like to ask them to reflect once again on the choice of adding a male quota. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the lack of the need for a male quota, the Joke Smit Foundation also points to its weak legal position. The fourth paragraph of Article 157 of European law explicitly states that it must be the under-represented sex. Similarly, Article 2 of the Equal Treatment Act and Article 5 of the Equal Treatment Act clearly lists only women or persons belonging to a particular ethnic or cultural minority group and female workers as groups which may be placed in a privileged position to reduce disadvantages. Finally, the proposal conflicts with the UN Convention on Women, which only legitimizes a women's quota. This Convention does not provide a legal basis for preferential treatment for men. How do the Ministers see this legal position? Can they explain, taking into account the above points, how they legitimise the addition of a male quota? Why do they think it is necessary to establish a male quota with a relatively weak legal position, whereas the problem that exists in society is precisely about under-representation of women? Mr. Chairman. In addition, the PvdA has some questions about the relationship between the Corporate Governance Code and the current bill. After all, the Dutch Corporate Governance Code contains an arrangement whereby stock exchange companies have to draw up a diversity policy and report to it every year. The government states that the roles of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the role of the Economic and Social Council, as overseer of the implementation of the present legislative proposal, can well co-exist. How exactly do the ministers see this coexistence? The government bases its expectation that the present bill will be effective, partly on the results of a similar law in Germany, France and Italy, among others. In doing so, my group would like to ask the ministers to also address any bottlenecks that the government expects from the results from abroad. What obstacles could arise in the effective implementation of the bill? How do ministers see their role in resolving these obstacles? Mr. Chairman. The draft law before us contains only one instrument for achieving a more balanced relationship between the boards of directors and the supervisory boards. Although the achievement of a more balanced relationship at the top of companies starts with the designation of female directors, the PvdA Group is convinced that this process does not end with recruitment and selection. To ensure that a board remains diverse, it is at least as important to invest in a working environment in which everyone feels comfortable. According to the PvdA, it is not only important to ensure that women are selected, but also that they feel safe in corporate culture, which is still too much of a male culture. Change is needed to avoid the so-called "rotating door effects." Do the ministers agree with my group that ensuring a good working environment is at least as important for everyone as selecting a diverse administration? What opportunities do they see to encourage such an inclusive working environment? Next, my group believes that a wide range of measures is needed to ensure greater equality in the labour market. The government has already announced that it is exploring the active elements and effectiveness of measures to increase cultural diversity in the summit. The PvdA would like to ask the ministers to clarify the situation. The government has also indicated that it is looking at the possibility of more leave measures and the accessibility of child services. Can the Ministers inform us of progress on that last point? Are there any other measures that they advocate to achieve equality in the labour market? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Gender inequality is deeply rooted in our society. Despite the Kalma amendment of 12 years ago, the proportion of women among drivers is stagnating. Although the PvdA regrets the need for a powerful resource as a quota in 2021, my group would like to stress that it sees the proposal for a female quota and the setting of targets to support this quota as a step in the right direction. However, according to the PvdA, much more effort is needed, not only top-down but also bottom-up through support in the form of coaching and women's networks to strengthen women's position in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u43	Is that what you're doing at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u44	I have one more paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u45	Shall we finish it first, Mr. Schalk? Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u46	I end with a quote from Christine Lagarde, the current director of the IMF, following the credit crisis: "If Lehman Brothers had been a bit more Lehman Sisters... we would not have had the degree of tragedy that we had as a result of what happened." Above all, let us learn the right lessons from the past for a solid foundation, for a fair future. In doing so, I look forward with particular interest to the Ministers' answers to the questions of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u48	Mrs Sent also mentioned the gender situation. I heard someone on the radio last week who didn't want to be him or her. But how are you supposed to point that out when someone like that is applying for a supervisory board? Does it fall under "nothing"? Is there a third aspect for that: a third may be a man, a third woman and a third all others who know nothing or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u49	I find that an extremely fascinating question which I would like to pass on to the rulers: how to deal with such situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u50	That seems to me to be a very good question which needs to be addressed, because I have also understood that people who are non-binary really reject this bill. I wonder if Mrs Sent herself has an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u51	Then I agree with Mrs Karimi's fine words: diversity is not only about man/woman, but also about young/old, about different origins and so on. You see, as long as one group dominates, it's hard to get inside that stronghold. If it's really diverse, it doesn't matter whether you're a man or a woman, because then the quality isn't seen by gender glasses. Then it doesn't matter at all. Now it is true that if the majority is men, a man is rather selected: the ideal candidate is a clone. But in a truly diverse environment it doesn't matter anymore. And that is why I think it is important that this bill takes steps towards greater diversity. And that doesn't mean I'm just for diversity at the top. I am also in favour of diversity in the broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u52	Mr. Schalk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u53	Finally, Mr President. Can I conclude, then, that Mrs Sent actually thinks that this is an intermediate stage, but that it doesn't matter if it is men or women anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u54	We know that if there is a critical mass of women, you will no longer be judged as a woman but as an individual. If there is no critical mass, then you are judged as a woman, and you never do well in a man's world; either you are competent and unkind, or you are kind and incompetent. That's the cat-and-dog dilemma, and that's what you break through with that critical mass. Then you will no longer be judged as a woman, but then you will be judged as an individual. That's my ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren, who will speak on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The aim of this bill is to achieve a more balanced relationship between the number of men and women at the top of large listed companies. An appointment contrary to this rule shall be void. My question to the Minister is therefore: how does this bill relate to Article 1 of our Constitution, which states "All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground is not allowed"? So, Mr President, it must be about quality, and the most suitable candidate, because positive discrimination is assumed. Apart from the fact that the PVV Group is wondering to what extent this bill relates to Article 1 of the Constitution, it considers that this proposal is unnecessary, i.e. disproportionate, and undesirable. The PVV wants companies to establish a high-quality day-to-day management and supervisory board, acting in accordance with Article 1 of the Constitution. Moreover, Article 16 of the EU Charter guarantees the freedom of entrepreneurship and Article 1 of the first ECHR Protocol the right to undisturbed enjoyment of property, which is regulated by this legislative amendment. It's very important for liberal parties, isn't it? You wonder if that's objectively justified. "We as a State know what is good for the entrepreneur and for the company." Yes, in our group's view, that tends towards communism, towards disproportionate state interference. And we all know where that leads economically. The fact that industry is very capable of putting together its own boards and does not lose sight of a balanced composition is reflected in the fact that the proportion of women in top positions has increased in recent years. This is intrinsic motivation, in which counterproductive coercive measures, as in this bill, do not fit. Awareness of the importance of diversity is growing in all sectors. In the meantime, there is plenty of diversity policy in the Netherlands. Despite the fact that more diversity is being pursued in most sectors, the government also wants to increase the pressure once again with coercive measures. They even want to impose sanctions against companies which do not comply with a nomination outside the so-called '30% nomination'. The imposition of a women's quota for the summit of large companies is a dictation. A dictation that a position on the supervisory board may only be filled by a woman, and excludes men from it as long as that third part in the composition of the supervisory board has not been reached, and without an assessment of the equal suitability of candidates of both sexes. This is discrimination, and therefore contrary to the Constitution, despite the fact that it is legitimised in case law on positive discrimination against women. Positive discrimination is a political choice which runs counter to our Constitution. This bill infringes the Constitution so that the legality and proportionality of this law can be contested. The ESC, in its opinion to the government, talks about encouraging businesses. That is really something else than forcing companies to do something. I would like a response from the Minister on how she sees it. Mr. Chairman. The proposal before us also completely ignores the "progressive parties" that the left-wing parties have said, embraced the position on gender neutrality; I have already mentioned it in the interruption. Gender neutrality is the favourite theme of many progressive political party. In the view of these political parties there are even people who do not feel at home in the designation of "man" or "woman." This confirms the superfluousness and inconsistency of this legislative proposal. This bill makes the differences between men and women very explicit. And that is completely at odds with the phenomenon of gender neutrality. Qualitys and conditions must determine whether someone is suitable for a function and not gender. The question for the Party for Freedom Group is how this law relates to gender neutrality. Getting more balance in the gender distribution at the top of large listed companies can also very well be achieved without compulsion and with incentives. The spokesman for the Labour Party has already said something about this, namely that you need to see it more broadly, including in facilitating measures and accompanying policies. Well, that's much more important: creating conditions for women so that they are suitable in that market or at least eligible for such functions. Measures that can ensure this balance between men and women in relation to specific careers or study choices that both women and men generally make. Or, for example, measures that make full-time work attractive for women. The European Court of Justice has found that the backlog of female Commissioners can be related to the less available female labour supply. And that is really different from concluding that women have fewer opportunities for high positions. The opportunities for women are there, especially in the Netherlands. And opportunities are not subject to coercive measures but to an objective assessment of conditions and qualifications. However, so-called positive discrimination and a women's quota have been chosen. This choice runs counter to the government's view that everyone in the Netherlands should have equal opportunities and be able to take advantage of them to develop talents and show what they can do, regardless of gender and cultural background. Can the Minister explain why, in this case, binding measures are being chosen instead of creating good conditions and incentives that give everyone the opportunity to get into a job or receive training that suits him or her? Enforcement of Article 1 of the Constitution provides sufficient tools to give people discriminated against a real chance of a good, successful education and a good job or a good career. I would also like a response from the Minister. The PVV Group believes that the present legislative proposal stands in the way of intrinsically motivated emancipation. The proposal before us is therefore superfluous, disproportionate and disproportionate for the PVV Group, because Article 1 of the Constitution prohibits discrimination. It bears witness to emancipation and not to discrimination if women, and certainly men, are free to choose, for example, to work part-time or to spend more time with the family. There is nothing wrong with that; that is also an ambition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u57	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I now give the floor to Mrs Prast, on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If our Chamber adopts this bill, we will write history, because the proposal has a far greater significance than only for supervisory boards and non-executive boards. It recognises that we need to intervene in order to enable women in the Netherlands to take advantage of their formal equal rights and opportunities. Hans de Boer, the President of VNO/NCW who died unexpectedly and too young in January of this year, came to that understanding after initially thinking that the influx of girls into higher education would automatically lead to a flow to the top. He would have liked to have followed this debate. A larger representation of women in supervisory boards is important not only for the women who end up there, but for all the girls and women in the Netherlands. Female role models are of great importance for self-confidence and belief in one's own abilities, and therefore for the ambition of girls and women, whether they are highly or low-educated, earning much or little. Female role models also ensure that guys and guys get more respect for girls and women, and now I say it nicely. I could have said, "look less down on girls and women." This bill reduces the negative discrimination against women in the Netherlands. 'Cause there is. Despite formally equal rights, women and men are treated and approached differently in equal cases. Mostly unconscious and unintentional. You're not gonna see that until you figure it out. I would therefore like to give an example in one of the areas of one of the ministers present here, education. Together with economic teacher Jellie Stinstra I have investigated which characters occur in the teaching material underbuilding economy of vmbo, havo and vwo. In total, 1820 men and 668 women with paid employment appear in the economics books. There are also characters without paid work. This ratio of working men and women is the same as that we had 50 years ago in the Netherlands in terms of labour market participation. The lesson material contains four times as many professional footballers and three times as many professional cyclists as nurses. Construction workers and street makers are much more common than workers in education and care. And that while 1.5 million people work in these last two sectors in the Netherlands, for the vast majority women. In the teaching material, 9% of ministers are women. I think that is even less than in Rutte III, but frankly, I lost count with Rutte III a little bit. None of the ministers in the teaching material is Minister for Economic Affairs, while we have had two women ministers in that ministry over the past 25 years. One of them is group chairman in this house, the other once laid the foundations for the legal target of 2013. In short, schoolchildren are given a society in which women, and the sectors in which they work in particular, literally do not count. We know from research that this harms the self-esteem and ambition of girls, while it causes boys to look down on the other sex. The United Nations therefore regards gender stereotyping as an undermining of human rights and obliges member countries to take action against it. The authors of the above mentioned teaching material did not deliberately want to outline a society in which women are underrepresented and unimportant. The imbalance arises from an unconscious prejudice in our society, among men and women, about the appropriate role of women and men. This prejudice also plays a role in the selection of applicants. But it's really unintentional and unconscious. What a male candidate is forgiven for he had a bad day.. gives the decision to female applicants in a negative sense: you see, she can't do it. I'm not making that up; it's from research at Harvard Business School.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u59	I would like to ask Mrs Prast the following. Is the disadvantage of women in the Netherlands in all sectors and all cultures unintentional and unconscious or are there also examples of conscious disadvantage?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u60	I am talking here about the selection of applicants. I am not talking about one province or population group or another. In fact, I am restricting myself here to what we know about unconscious discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u61	I would like to ask Mrs Prast whether there are no examples or situations of women in the Netherlands who are barely able to get out of the door at all, to go to training, let alone apply for the positions she advocates.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u62	That could be very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u63	Finally, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u64	But you don't know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u65	I didn't think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u66	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u67	Since 2013, there has been a legal target of 30% for women at the top of business. Before that, it was clear for a long time that that was coming. Business has therefore had a long time to voluntarily achieve a balanced gender balance, but it has not taken advantage of that time. At the end of 2019, a small 70% of the boards of directors and 43% of the supervisory boards consisted entirely of men and zero women. The Minister can therefore count on the support of my group, but I still have a few questions for her. The bill provides for a minimum of one third for each of the two sexes, without specification of nationality. Does the Minister agree with me that we should avoid the possibility that, in the future, we may have non-governments and non-governments, the men of which are mainly Dutch and women, especially non-Dutch, because we would not have suitable women in the Netherlands? If so, is it prepared to ask RVs and non-executing authorities to strive to ensure that the Dutch-non-Dutch ratio among women is as high as for men, e.g. through pass-to-execution? The bill is limited to PVCs. According to the Economic and Social Committee opinion, this is because for their RPs, the first thing they do is look for people from their own sub-top. The number of women there is less than 20%. But, I ask the ministers, among those 20% women in the sub-top should there be suitable administrative candidates? And isn't it free to recruit executives outside of their own organization? I have put my ear in the run-up to this debate with several leading headhunters. They indicate that there are more than enough women for top positions. Could the Minister explain again why it does not opt for coercion in the area of the ROA? According to the bill, the companies report annually to the ESC on the process, deployment and results of the quota. Monitoring the results of the legal target has been carried out in recent years by an independent committee consisting of two top women and a professor specialised in the labour market. Why does the Minister not choose to set up an independent monitoring committee again? We generally do this in the Netherlands if we want to map something. Moreover, there may be the appearance of dependence and it is very important that monitoring is independent. Entrepreneurs of the ESC represent an industry that has failed to achieve a balanced m-v ratio on a voluntary basis and the monitoring committee points out that employees' representatives such as the works council do not make much effort towards greater balance at the top. In addition, women are still under-represented at the ESC. For example, 17 of the 22 entrepreneurs are men. In short, why not have an independent monitoring committee? Mr President, this was my last question. I look forward to the response of the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u69	Mr. Chairman. The struggle for equality between men and women began openly in the eighteenth century. Only a little less than 100 years later, so at the end of the nineteenth century, successes began to be achieved. And now, another 100 years later, we conclude that women are still not sufficiently represented in the administrative bodies of listed companies. But this is the case not only with listed companies, but also in the public sector. The latest Female Board Index, an annual study by the TIAS professor Mijntje Lückerath, shows that 61 of the 89 stock exchange companies now meet the proposed quota of at least 33% women in the RV. On the boards, the percentage is even lower. 17% of enterprises do not have any women in vc or rvb. At this rate, it will take up to 2035 until 30% of drivers are women. The fact that the male-female relationship is unequal is not a question of under-potential. It's a culture phenomenon that never gets broken. Mr. Chairman. The present legislative proposal aims to improve this situation for all enterprises, both in the R &amp; D sector and in the R &amp; D sector. The legislative proposal provides for a maximum postponement by re-appointment of eight years. The objective must therefore be achieved within eight years. It does not do enough justice to this bill to consider it merely as a measure to help the emancipation that has not yet been completed. Of course, an increase in women in administrative positions from equal opportunities for men and women is desirable. Studies have repeatedly shown that the gender diversity on the boards of directors and supervisory boards does not correspond to that of society as a whole. Moreover, this is not just about gender. Other forms of diversity are also not sufficiently present. This bill will lead to a better reflection of society in terms of gender. An evaluation is planned after five years. In addition to the reasons for emancipation, it is also important for the D66 Group that diversity in administrative bodies improves the ability of companies and organisations to achieve their objectives. In this sense, the aim of this law, gender diversity in a vc, leads to a more balanced weighing of different perspectives. Certainly listed companies, but also other organisations, can make their strategic decision-making more future-proof and thus operate more successfully in their market. Diversity not only means that women and men are represented. We have a keen desire that the administrative gremia should also be tasted differently and that diversity should be understood more widely than gender diversity. Our question to the Ministers is therefore whether the government will in any way send it to us in the future. The desire and need for gender diversity is therefore evident. The next question then is whether a more similar reflection of society in R &amp; D should be enforced by the public authorities. It is also a question of whether this is enforced. The D66 Group believes that if a voluntary arrangement within the administrative layers does not start, the government may give some wind in the back, or even should give it, in that movement. As a progressive party, we believe that the conservative forces, including in private companies and organisations, should be reduced in this way in order to achieve a more important objective that is otherwise achieved too slowly. Unless, of course, this goes against existing legislation, but that is not the case in our view. In his letter of 12 April, the Human Rights College states that a quota for men is not lawful. The present legislative proposal with the explanatory memorandum is based on a one-third quota for both men and women. So there is no quota for men sec, but there is a combined quota for men and women. Ministers are talking about a symmetrical approach. Who could be against that? This principle helps companies in their strategic decision-making and economic performance. It is therefore not a question of a quota for men, but of a more equal distribution of men and women within the scope of the law. The Council of State did not see any objections on this point. The two ministers' answers to questions concerning the symmetrical approach are clear and convincing. The symmetrical approach is thus a way of ensuring that the proportion of men in PVCs does not exceed two thirds and equally for women. After all, with an asymmetrical quota, a full vc could be made up of women. In addition, the bill regulates a registration of the gender distribution in supervisory boards and boards for all listed companies. These companies should also formulate a plan of action. This registration and the plan of action will in itself, it seems, also achieve a more equal distribution of men and women in these companies. A number of questions remain for our group. With regard to gender registration, gender is increasingly no longer recorded. We welcome that. However, this legislative proposal is about weighing priorities. On this point, the D66 Group considers that registration is necessary, above the general desire not to register sex. We would like to hear the views of the ministers on this issue. We would like to hear from the Minister whether the SER is prepared for this registration task and how the SER will complete this task. We have previously asked questions about the Minister's plans regarding other companies and organisations not covered by this law, both in the public and private sectors. Are there reasons of principle for not imposing the same diversity rules on these organisations? The motion of the Dutch MPs Bergkamp, Özütok and Van den Hul calls for the advice of the Advisory Group Vinkenburg to be drawn up before June 2021. What is the state of play with regard to the implementation of this motion? Furthermore, the Minister assumes that, in the wake of the R &amp; D programmes, the R &amp; D programmes will also diversify. What if there is no improvement in the composition of the boards of directors in the coming years? Is the Minister considering extending the quoting to RPs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u70	I have an enlightening question. I just understood that Mr Van der Voort said: we are in favour of people not having to register as men or women anymore. Did I understand correctly that in this case, you want them to do it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u71	Mr Schalk understood that very well. We find it undesirable in general, where possible, to register sex, but here is such an important goal to achieve that this is hopefully temporary... this law has also been used as a temporary measure... is given priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u72	What should the temporality lead to, I would like to ask. A second question, which is linked to it, is the following. Earlier in Mr Van der Voort's speech, I understood that he said: this is only one aspect, but there are actually more diversity aspects. Which would he have added in the future and will he call on the Minister to put it in a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u73	In any case, we believe that diversity is relevant in the broad sense. We need to see if there is a need for legislative proposals. I do not want to say at all that we now consider it necessary. Diversity can be understood very widely, but we are not yet in a position to believe that this requires legislative proposals. I am also very curious to see what the Ministers' views are on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u74	Mr Frentrop, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u75	I also have an enlightening question for Mr. Van der Voort. It was about diversity. Your statement was that this was good for decision-making within a supervisory board. Then you said the following. If companies do not take care of that themselves, then the progressive side of D66 says that the government, or the legislator, must intervene. The liberal side of D66 would probably have said that companies should do it themselves and that they can solve it themselves. Why does Mr Van der Voort, or the D66 group, think that companies, as diversity, are a good thing, do not apply that to the supervisory board themselves? Why wouldn't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u76	We have seen that this is extremely slow. This has been demonstrated in several studies. This is so slow that it is no longer appropriate in society as we know it. Then it's a priority balance. As I said, we believe that the time has come, not to force it, but to give the support, at least with such a law, to achieve it in a shorter time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u77	Now that moment of compulsion has come, in the progressive eyes of D66, from liberal to progressive. But the tendency is for more and more women to join the Supervisory Board. The trend is therefore in the right direction. Why are you switching from liberal to progressive when things are moving in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u78	I have explained how long it will take us to reach a 30% share of women on supervisory boards. It'll take up to 2035. That's taking our party a little too long. This bill is, of course, also broader than that. It is not just about the proportion of women in supervisory boards. It is also about registration and thus tempting to achieve more diversity and equality between men and women in the boards and in the underlying layers. We see this bill much wider than just the quoting of women in vc's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u79	Finally, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u80	The Jekyll and Hydekanten, the liberal and progressive sides within D66 are not quite clear to me yet, but I will...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u81	Please continue your argument, Mr. Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u82	Since 2012, there has been no development in the EU's Women on Boards Directive. This directive calls for 40% of the under-represented sex in the PVCs. The D66 Group asks the ministers what their position is on this matter and how the government sees the progress of this directive, respecting, of course, the situation surrounding the formation. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the entry into force. There is still uncertainty as to the exact date of entry into force of the bill. We ask the ministers what the plan is about. That concludes my speech and we look forward with interest to answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u83	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u84	I have another question about Mr Van der Voort's speech on the symmetry of the male and female quotas. If I understand correctly, there has to be a delay in reaching such a large, heavy instrument as a quota. This requires EU legislation. The Council of State implicitly points that out. The College of Human Rights eventually does that. The Joke Smit Foundation does this in detail, with reference to the individual articles. So I do not understand how Mr van der Voort can make a plea for a male quota based on symmetry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u85	We are advocating a symmetrical quota as proposed in this bill. The lectures you're quoting are talking about a men's quota. We believe that this proposal concerns a symmetrical quota, and I do not hear them specifically in the letters that have been sent about it. It's a legal consideration. That is a difficult consideration, which makes the government different from the documents you are referring to. That is a consideration that we as a group cannot make an absolute choice about. We believe that the government's reasoning is sufficient. We also insist on the fact that this is a symmetrical quota. Moreover, the principle of equality between men and women also makes sense that you would like to set an equal quota for both.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u86	I do not read the EU directive that way. I read in it a requirement of a disadvantage. Only then can you justify a quota, because it is a very strong instrument. So I am very curious about the reaction of the rulers to this. Symmetry means that there is also a male quota and that there should be a basis for that, but I do not find it in the Dutch laws that I have mentioned in my contribution, nor in European legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u87	It is very clear to me how the balance is being weighed up by you and, of course, I am also curious about the Minister's answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Sent, and thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mr Doornhof has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "You can only successfully improve people's lives worldwide if you yourself reflect those different target groups." Those are words from Hans de Jong, former director of Philips Nederland. So you can see that companies are doing everything they can to exploit diversity to improve their businesses. Women and men must have equal opportunities anyway. But the results remain disappointing when you look at women in the top. Then my group understands that, as a cabinet, you want to take far-reaching measures to get more women into the top of that business. Mr. Chairman. We have seen that there is support in the Lower House for an obligation for large companies to mention and pursue ambitious diversity figures. There is often also a growth quota when it comes to supervisory boards. My group is impressed by the ESC opinion, because this bill did not come naturally. This is the basis of the opinion of the Economic and Social Council. It also shows the results of the impact of gender diversity on financial business performance. And then I have to support Mr Schalk and Mr Nanninga: those results, that effect on financial business performance, are weakly positive or even not present. However, if you look at social, ethical aspects, then you see very clearly positive effects. I quote from that opinion: "More gender diversity leads, among other things, to less fraud and tax evasion, greater transparency and higher quality of the remuneration system in the organisation." Positive impacts of gender diversity on corporate social responsibility are also demonstrated. I refer to working conditions, personnel policy, security, human rights or the environment. Mr. Chairman. That is why the ESC says: we need to accelerate this diversity in the top, and that is what public policy needs to do, with rules. The CDA agrees with that, but on behalf of my group I did ask critical questions about the legality of that part of the bill, which reflects that growth quota. It is, of course, a question of the right to equal treatment. Mr Van Kesteren also mentioned this. Our Constitution is being protected and, of course, it is in the EU Treaty. What can you say? Well, that positive discrimination is not prohibited in itself. If you look at the case law of the Court of Justice, you will see that the Court is strict. It's got to be about equal fitness. Only then can you opt for that positive discrimination. And when you talk about an arrangement that is trying to give women priority, which is often the case in practice, you also see that there must always be an exception when it comes to certain individual characteristics of that man. The government is now saying: yes, we have also seen this case law and we must recognise that this bill is at odds with it, but have we not seen an amendment to that EU Treaty? Have we not seen that instead of Member States having the right to promote equality between men and women in working life, they can now ensure this? And what does that do with the case law of the Court? According to the Government, there was no other Court ruling following this amendment of the Treaty. But that's not true. Because where did this treaty change come from? It is about the Treaty of Amsterdam. When did that come into force? That was in 1999. After that, for example, you had the Swedish case of Abrahamsson. It was about a Swedish priority arrangement. The Court stated that it was too unconditional and contrary to the principle of proportionality. The case-law was the Court in view of that proportionality of its judgment, one can say: amendment of the Treaty or not, that the aim of better representation of women can never completely replace the right to equal opportunities for all. That is why a question to the rulers. Isn't the picture you have given of that legality something other than perhaps the reality obliges you to say? Is it not less obvious to say that this bill is in line with EU law? I would also like to refer to the proposal for a directive. Mr Van der Voort also pointed out this. In 2012, there was a directive that said: we need to improve the gender balance in non-performing management positions of listed companies. The European Commission's 2012 proposal therefore states that it is intended to give Member States the obligation to ensure that, in the selection of members of the supervisory boards, priority is given to the candidate of the under-represented sex in the case of equal qualifications in terms of suitability, competence and professional performance. So you can see that the European Commission is opting for equal fitness here. So you can say that this is clearly in line with the EU Treaty. Can the government explain why the text of that directive was not adopted? The government could say that the ESC does not want an unconditional quota. I must say that this could be more effective and I must also say that in general my group attaches great importance to what the ESC says. It doesn't consist of entrepreneurs and employees together, alongside the crown members. If they agree on something in the socio-economic field and with their expertise, the legislator must have very good reasons to deviate from it. With this comment, I am curious about the Government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u90	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. I shall now give the floor to Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u91	Mr. Chairman. Today is a special day for some of us in the Upper House. The legislative proposal we are discussing is aimed at a balanced relationship between men and women in committees and boards. And it was also so special to see the young children in our Chamber this afternoon. That's what we're all doing for. The bill includes a so-called growth quota of at least one third of women and a third of men for new appointments to supervisory boards of Dutch listed companies. In addition, large companies are required to set appropriate and ambitious targets for both boards of directors and supervisory boards, and to report annually to the ESC on progress. This legislative proposal implements the Economic and Social Committee opinion. Mr. Chairman. The law targets ended on 1 January last year. And according to the Business Monitor Topwives, in 2019 only 12.4% were women in boards, and 20.4% in supervisory boards. The Business Monitor 2020 shows that the share of women in supervisory boards is 21.9%. If the current rate of an average of 3.5 percentage points per year continues at this rate, it will take more than 12 years for there to be no more boards of Commissioners without women. The legislative proposal now before us means, in short, that for listed companies there will be a 33% growth quota in the Netherlands for new appointments to supervisory boards, if the legislative proposal is adopted. If an appointment does not contribute to the set quota, the appointment shall be void. That sounds very far-reaching, but if you consider that until 1 January 2020 most of these companies had to meet the legal targets at that time, that is not so bad. Moreover, the bill is in line with regulations in countries such as Belgium, Germany, France and Italy. All these countries have a quota system, although the arrangements differ. The VVD Group is generally against far-reaching regulation, and thus against quotas. However, the VVD Group sees that not being able to find women for supervisory boards can no longer be an argument. My group therefore supports a quota regime for only listed companies. This is certainly true because these companies were given the opportunity to explain in their annual report why they could not find a woman, and in most cases they simply did not. As a result, they chose not to comply with the law. The VVD Group believes it is important to say that this bill should not be a substitute for more far-reaching quotas. The VVD Group does not agree with that. She also thinks that this is not necessary because good example leads to good practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u92	My question is why the VVD abandons the liberal principles. These are choices that business itself wants to make, in all the freedom we have in this country. They want to accept who they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u93	It is also very liberal to fix things that are not right. The VVD believes that in this case things happen that are not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u94	I conclude that the VVD sees diversity as an end in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u95	The VVD believes that if women want to go to the top, the opportunities they get for this should be equal to those of men. That is not the case at the moment. And that certainly doesn't apply to positions in supervisory boards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u96	Well, that's a lot. I think those odds are even in this country. That's what I believe is written on that scale behind me, among other things. But I conclude that the VVD chooses diversity over the liberal principle. It has just been pointed out that companies really do not let women's talent go if they think they can make a lot of profit. But it doesn't seem to be quite there anyway, or it doesn't come up. The VVD thus releases the liberal principle in favour of diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u97	I was gonna repeat myself if I gave the same answer, so I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u98	Thank you. Mr Frentrop on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u99	Yeah, just a little bit more to the previous discussion. I thought it was interesting. The group of the VVD in the Upper House has a different opinion than the group of the VVD in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u100	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u101	What exactly is the difference? I didn't quite understand that from your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u102	We have a stand-alone judgment to make. You will also have to wait for my speech. It is true that the VVD in the First Chamber looks at this differently than the VVD in the Second Chamber. That seems very healthy to me, because if you are always of the same opinion in the First and Second Chambers, why would you have a First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u103	Or a Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u104	Or a Lower House! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u105	I would just like to say that I absolutely do not want there to be any difference in views between the groups of the First and Second Chambers. But I'd like some clarification. What else do you see? What did you say to your colleagues in Lower House about seeing this something different?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u106	The VVD in the First Chamber has looked at the matter independently and has come to the conclusion that it is more difficult for women to enter supervisory boards than for men and that it is still thirteen years if we do nothing about it. Then it is very liberal to say that there is something that is not right and that is what we are going to solve in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u107	Finally, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u108	The House of Representatives didn't think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u109	I'm standing here in front of the First Chamber. That's what I stand for. We're also in the First Chamber. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u110	Can I ask you a little follow-up question? Of course, the First Chamber has a different role in the assessment of legislation. From that perspective, there may be a difference in the assessment between the Second and the First Chambers. So is it true that there is something about feasibility, enforcement, legitimate, which makes the Upper Parliamentary Group of the VVD have a different position from the Lower Parliamentary Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u111	Or will you come back to that in your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u112	Maybe it's okay if we just park the question and I finish my story. Then I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u113	Yes. The same applies to Mr Verkerk. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u114	In addition to quotas for listed companies, this bill introduces an obligation for large companies for both boards of directors and supervisory boards to set appropriate and ambitious targets and report them to the ESC. The Minister explained what was meant by "appropriate and ambitious." The VVD won't ask about that again. However, the VVD Group does ask ministers to reflect on whether they foresee that companies will now enforce and comply with the legislation. The VVD Group raises the question because, until 1 January 2020, the Act had a target of 30%, with an obligation to explain in the annual report why, if that target was not met, only 7% of companies actually explained it. The rest of the companies just patched those legal rules to their boots. Why, as my group asks the ministers, would that be different under the current legislative proposal? Mr. Chairman. The Economic and Social Committee shall have a supporting and not a enforcing role. The VVD Group asks the ministers whether this way the law will not become a toothless tiger. What happens if large companies fail to meet the targets? Mr. Chairman. Last but not least, the VVD Group is seriously concerned about whether the proposed law is legal in its current form. Several bodies have pointed to conflicts with the Constitution, international law, EU law, and conflict with government policy on preferential treatment. Moreover, it has been indicated that the bill runs counter to the prohibition of all forms of preferential treatment of men, as laid down in the General Equal Treatment Act, the Equal Treatment Act for Men and Women in Book 7 BW. The VVD Group asks for a response from the ministers, other than that the above laws will not be invoked. I should like to conclude with that. Then there is Mrs Sent's question. The question was what was different, why the VVD in the Lower House voted against and why the VVD in the Upper House looked at that differently. The VVD in the First Chamber believes that there are unequal opportunities for men and women in supervisory boards. The VVD is a liberal party against quotas, but in this case we are in favour. Firstly, if you have 33% men and 33% women in a supervisory board, that has a good look. The VVD believes that, if you do it in our opinion quite small intervention, it will be good underneath the summit. You yourself mentioned Christine Lagarde as a role model. As you may know, she was in charge of the law firm where I'm a partner. She's my role model, too. I can say from experience that because she could do that with two little children, all the women at Baker thought they could do that. It's still harder for women to get through that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u115	This is not entirely an answer to my question. Mrs... oh, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u116	We have the same first name.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u117	I forgot your name. Mrs De Blécourt explained how her perspective and that of her group...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u118	From my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u119	... departs from the position of the VVD Group in the Lower House of Parliament. But to what extent is that different perspective part of the role that the First Chamber should play in the assessment of legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u120	We're judging... My group in the First Chamber has assessed this law on its merits and comes to this assessment independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u121	I'm gonna ask you again. I don't think I'm gonna get the question answered. The role of the First Chamber is to assess the quality of legislation on enforcement, feasibility and legality. So to what extent is the opinion of the VVD group in the First Chamber different from that of the VVD group in the Second Chamber on those three parts? Because that would explain why there's a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u122	That'll be on legality. But we still have to wait for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u123	I found it very interesting to hear that the VVD Group emphasizes a slightly different line of thinking here. The original VVD position referred to equal opportunities and not equal outcomes, let me put it this way. These equal opportunities should be enshrined in law. I imagine you're making a different choice here. What struck me was that you said: yes, beware, we only do that this time, but not for other minorities or other quotas. My question is: if you have this line of thinking and it is, I suppose, firmly anchored in liberal thinking, because otherwise you wouldn't do so, would you want the same for people with disabilities, a different sexual orientation, etc., etc.? It is all aspects on which the Constitution does not allow you to discriminate. I don't hear you say that, and I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u124	I think that's a very good question. Thank you for asking. It may well be that we are following the same line on these points. I did not discuss this with my group. What I meant to say is that the VVD does not participate in a quota for boards of directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u125	I understand. If you do not agree, the fair question remains whether you remain consistent in your thinking. Your line of thought on the basis of which you assess it is changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u126	No, I don't agree with you. The VVD Group is of the opinion that if you fix it in supervisory boards, so if you have a balanced distribution there, when you appoint boards of directors, you will also ensure that there is a fair distribution there. That's what we're assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u127	I would like to touch on Mr Verkerk's questions a little bit. I heard Mrs De Blécourt say in her reply that it is so very important that women can be a role model, and that therefore a quota for a third woman is justified in this case. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u128	That is right, especially since there are women in the supervisory board. My group is convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u129	Of course, I fully agree with Mrs De Blécourt that you could find enough women. I don't think that's the problem at all. I do have a supplementary question on the following. If you put a criterion, such as role modeling, first at some point, you could of course also introduce quotas for many other target groups in society which are currently lagging behind or being disadvantaged. I will come back to that in my own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u130	Yes. Actually, I'd like to give the same answer as Mr. Verkerk. So I am not going to repeat my answer again, if that is all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u131	Finally, Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u132	And that answer was?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u133	That answer was: this is a start. If the balance between men and women in supervisory boards is repaired, my group is convinced that all these other groups will also be monitored. They are just as important, and my group fully agrees with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u134	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. You may sit down again. I now give the floor to Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u135	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group is in favour of making the number of men and women more balanced in boards and boards of directors. But it does see a problem, namely the legitimacy of preference policy in general and the preference policy for men in particular. Mr. Chairman. In recent years there has been intensive reflection and work on a more balanced division of men and women into boards of directors and supervisory boards. The cabinet notes that the results are structurally lagging behind, despite the often sincere attention paid to the importance of diversity. The cabinet believes that we need all the talents in our country and that everyone should be able to have equal opportunities. To put it in the title of the ESC opinion: diversity in the top, time for acceleration. Mr. Chairman. The Cabinet recognises that there is an exceptional measure. For an initial assessment of this measure, our group would like to refer to the opinion of the Commission on non-discrimination grounds and Article 1 Constitution, published in 2006. The Committee states that the inclusion of a particular ground in Article 1 of the Constitution....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Our group believes that this law can be seen as an effect of that particular minimum. It is therefore also in favour of making the number of men and women more balanced in boards of directors and supervisory boards. Our group is also supported by the opinion of the Economic and Social Council, which forms part of this law. Mr. Chairman. At one point, our group is a little uncomfortable with this law. We have recently debated in this Chamber the extension of the non-discrimination grounds of Article 1 of the Constitution with the fundamental "sexual orientation." That was a fundamental debate on equality and equality. How can we explain to the Ihbti movement that the First Chamber is now discussing a law limited to gender diversity? I would also like a response from both ministers. Mr. Chairman. Our group's main objection relates to the quality of this legislation. The Council of State concludes that the proposal "is at odds with the current case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union." The Human Rights College and the Joke Smit Foundation stated in a letter dated 21 February, 2 April and 6 September that a male quota and a male preference quota are simply not allowed under international law. In the reply on page 3, the cabinet is urging this criticism of the Council of State, referring to the time in which this case law has developed, and to various international and national developments. As far as the timing is concerned, our group has two questions. First of all, what exactly is the background to the time frame, that there may be a deviation from the case law in force? Secondly, what judgments of the Court support the government's view that a deviation from the current case law might be at issue at this time? I'd like a response from the government. The Joke Smit Foundation states that in the note on the report, the cabinet wrongly bases itself on the committee that monitors compliance with the Women's Convention, the CEDAW. In its view, the UN Women's Convention and the policy of the said Committee are in line with the case law of the Court of Justice. I'd like a response from the government. And the same Joke Smit Foundation also refers to the government's own policy, which the States-General has adopted, that preferential treatment, if it is necessary, should be limited to women, ethnic minorities and disabled people. I refer to the preferential treatment note of 24 May 2005. I'd also like a response from the government. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group is in favour of the proposed quota for women, but it has constitutional objections to the proposed quota for men. And also: we like to be convinced. Yet, you can ask yourself whether we should not get past these objections. In this context, it is significant that the Joke Smit Foundation specifically states that we should not do so. This proposal is about equal treatment, and the principle of equal treatment also requires that we adhere strictly to exceptions. That is why our group is asking whether the ministers are prepared to come up with a novella that does justice to Dutch law and also does justice to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Mr. Chairman. Joke Smit wrote in 1981, her death year, the song There is a country where women want to live. In this song she pleads for a caring and just society. And in the second verse, she speaks of a country "where there is constant rethinking of who is weak and who is strong." I see there's an interruption, but I'm almost done, Mr. President, shall I finish first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u136	That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u137	I would like to emphasise this quote. She says: I want to live in a country where it is constantly checked who are weak and who is strong. This quote is of great importance for this draft law. It is also of great importance to the current political situation in our country. In such a country, men also want to live, and in any case the men of our group do. I look forward to the Ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u138	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mrs. De Blécourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question: isn't asking a novelle asking for the law to be amended, and is that the task of the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u140	I didn't understand the second part of your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u141	And is that the task of the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u142	First of all, where the novelle is concerned. Well, I don't know any better than a novelle is an amendment to the law. Whether that is a question from the First Chamber: at least it is a task of the First Chamber that we look at the quality of the legislation. So far, I am convinced that this law on male quotas runs counter to both national and international legislation, but of course I would also like to listen to the government's argument if it considers that this is not the case. If that remains the case, it is our job to ensure the quality of legislation. Then there's nothing wrong with asking for a novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u143	I agree that the First Chamber should monitor the quality of legislation, but it is perhaps a little early to ask for a novella if ministers have not yet been able to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u144	You may be right that this is the custom. In that case, I'm sorry I broke that habit. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u145	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I now give the floor to Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this first debate after the recess I see a bit of an analogy with the formation. Our country is in deep trouble, but the toys of some parties are decisive for their attitude in the formation. And here's another thing: we have to make every effort to get the economy out of the coronaslop and the First Chamber has to consider a women's quota on the Supervisory Board. Anyway, Mr. Chairman, we're happy to join you. Sometimes it is also useful to crawl into someone else's skin. This bill is perfectly suited for that purpose. A far-reaching measure which intervenes deeply in the normal situation of large public limited companies and private companies. These companies are required to set appropriate and ambitious targets for the relationship between men and women on the board, the supervisory board and the sub-top. In addition, it calls for a balanced composition of the supervisory board and non-executive directors, in the sense that at least a third of them must be male or female. How are we supposed to judge that? It's just what perspective you choose, because when you get into the other's skin, you get a different judgment. Take the old political frame of left and right as an example. Until Mrs De Blécourt spoke, I thought: on the right this is not liked and on the left this is great. Or if you look at it from the entrepreneur, from the business community. I can imagine people saying there: what is the government interfering with now? Or if you look at it from the businesswoman. It just looks strictly business; only if you work well will you be appointed. Or if you see it from feminism. Of course, a true feminist is not happy with this. Who would like to take an excuse on a board or a supervisory board? Or, as I said today, people who are non-binary, shivering from this kind of legislation. Of course we can't get around it: if you see it from the inclusivity, this can't be done at all. Why talk about men and women on the Supervisory Board? We can't determine that, can we? After all, it's not what you see, it's how you feel. Isn't that true these days? So there's only genders there, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u147	I have heard Mr Schalk make two qualifying statements. One was: normal business conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u148	Relationships.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u149	Relationships. But normally, I wonder if he sees that as what it's like or if he sees that as how it's supposed to be. The second point was: 'It is very valuable that Mr Schalk has made an attempt to get into the skin of another person and then imagine how he feels about the other person if she is an excuse.'
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u150	I didn't use that word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u151	I heard that word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u152	Then you should listen better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u153	Excuse me. Then maybe not "true" but an excuse position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u154	An "excusable place" is said. That's it, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u155	"To take an apology on a board."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u156	Okay, an apology. I'm sorry I got that wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u157	Apology accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u158	Would you like to finish your question, Mrs. Prast?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u159	I'd like to finish the question. The whole idea of this bill is to put an end to the fact that women who are highly qualified cannot get to that place by implicit, intrinsic, unintended and unconscious selection mechanisms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u160	Thank you. I think your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u161	The question is: to what does Mr Schalk base this observation that he crawls into someone's skin and feels this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u162	Thank you. The first question was about something I would have said. Let me repeat exactly what I said, otherwise it could happen wrong. I have said that this is a far-reaching measure, which intervenes deeply in the normal situation of large public limited companies and private companies. What I meant by that isn't what I think is normal, it's how it's supposed to be. So far, business has decided for itself who will be on the Supervisory Board. That is the normal course of action. Now there will be a bill which breaks through this normal procedure, because suddenly the legislator says: you will do a third part of men and a third part of women. So I've seen a male quota and a female quota. That was the first question. The second question. When you crawl into someone else's skin, you run the risk of taking too many skins. In other words, maybe I didn't do justice to every feminist, to put it that way. Maybe someone else is experiencing it differently, but I didn't use the word "excustruus" at all. I wouldn't just use that in this room. I said an apology. 'Cause that's how it sounds to me. That's how I named it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u163	The fact that not Mr Schalk, but we in general speak of an 'excuus' and not an 'excuus', that we speak of a 'pappa day' and not a'mamma day', and that we speak of working women and non-working men, indicates how deeply rooted the prejudices are. It indicates how difficult it is for women to get a position on a board of directors. That is why I say with Neelie Kroes: I am proud to be quotas'ed. Because if you don't, you won't be on a board of directors. Then the implicit prejudices are such that the ideal candidate is a clone and that women are less likely, because that is not normal within a board of directors. Does Mr Schalk recognise this situation? And what solution would he propose to ensure that there is diversity in the boards of directors, because we know that this will produce better results?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u164	Mrs Sent is very good at summing up her own speech very briefly. That worked out great. Thank you for that. In any case, I do recognize the image that Mrs Sent sketches. But she's asking me an incredibly difficult question. Can I just suggest the solution how else to do it? In any case, I do not think that legislation that passes to a quota is a good idea. How to do it differently? I find that very difficult to interpret. I also found Mrs Nanninga's method of calculation interesting at some point. If ten men and three women work full-time, then a special selection can also be made. Over the past decades, we have seen an increasing number of women entering the labour market. I say very often, and Mrs Sent knows that they have been pushing the labour market a little bit. I have just heard again in her speech that women must be financially independent. My argument would be that families should be financially independent; that is a different approach. But I have no objection to the fact that more and more women have taken up employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u165	Thank you, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u166	Then it should be translated into a quota for the supervisory boards, for example, but why not in the workplace? That's what I'm about to argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u167	Thank you. That's what we're gonna hear. Shall we wait for that, too, Mrs. Sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u168	Very briefly. The fact is that one in three marriages is stranded and that in this situation women are in financial difficulties. It is also the fact that women are more difficult to join the boards of directors and supervisory boards and that quota legislation is a means of countering this disadvantage. I do not hear Mr Schalk suggest alternatives. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u170	Maybe a short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u171	Short, if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u172	I find it as sad as Mrs. Sent that a third of the marriages are stranded. I even heard a lot of people get into trouble at the housing market because of divorces. I would say stop divorcing, but that is not exactly what Mrs Sent means either. Indeed, I am not called today to come up with a solution to this problem, but I need to assess this legislation. Then I say, is this the route? Do you have to come up with a quota? The Council of State is quite critical of that, and so am I. But I don't have the solution here for a precise distribution that everyone would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u173	Thank you. You had announced a short answer; that limit is now about to be reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u174	I'm sorry for the long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u175	Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u176	I would like to come back to the part in Mr Schalk's speech of 'crawling into the skin'. I asked myself if, in the thought formation of these different skins, he also tested this with the people who are actually in that skin.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u177	I did not test that in the run-up to this debate. I didn't go looking for people who are in those different roles, but I tried to crawl into that skin. If the President allows me, my next sentence would be: I will stop with all that perspective and get into the skin, because it is clear that no one can be happy about it. Maybe that's a good answer to the question you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u178	In the view of our group, there are many people who are in that skin and yet give a different explanation of this bill than you put it. If your thought-forming of those different people in those different skins is the basis of your further argument, then that seems to me to be a matter of some concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u179	I assume that Mr Van der Voort, like myself, has taken note of all kinds of documents, for example from the Human Rights College and from the Joke Smit Foundation. They're gonna like this, too. Mr Van der Voort then made his own speech. So do I, based on how I think some people might think. I've been trying to get into the skin. If I didn't, that's too bad, but the explanation is at least from my point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u180	Finally, Mr. Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u181	I appreciate the good intentions you have with that, but it might be good to verify it next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u182	Please continue your argument, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u183	Mr. Chairman. I told you this couldn't cheer anyone up. That seems to be the case. Moreover, it is also very unfair, I would like to say, because why only a third part? If it's really so important to share it fairly, do it right away, you might say. Of course, it is already very difficult to allow a third of the board of a company to be of either sex, especially if a board of directors would consist of one person, but also with several directors, the question is what is actually the purpose of a company or company. Can't these people really decide for themselves what the best people are for the top of their business? And why is it just about the top of the company? That is where a distinction is actually made where it is not there. Let's take any company in this country of any size, a shipyard. Is a woman a worse welder than a man? Can a woman hit less good rivets than a man? Why should in the top of a company be a third man and a third woman, but not in the rest of the company? In other words, once the government intervenes in this matter and sets a quota for part of the company, in this case the so-called summit, then a self-respecting works council can immediately stand up for the rest of the company and say: is the summit more than the workplace? Mr. Chairman. I have the feeling that this is going to get in the way of business again. It does not do justice to the persons concerned. It leads to legal inequality and it will be seen as discriminatory. Nothing will come of it, because how can this law be implemented if, for example, there are too few offers? And how can we guarantee enforcement? Does a company have to stop or pay a fine? How proportional is that fine? Suppose an amount is set. Then that will again be seen as discriminatory, because whether that amount is nothing or whether a woman feels that she is worth a certain sum of money. Then who determines that particular sum of money? Mr. Chairman. We have read in the law that an appointment contrary to this rule is null and void. But it has no legal force for decision-making. Can the Minister explain what that means in practice? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State raises a number of problems, including with regard to European legislation. The section concludes that the proposal is at odds with the current case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. For the VVD that should be supportive for the vision from the Lower House. In any case, I was pleased that, in response to the opinion of the Council of State, the Cabinet, or rather, in spite of the opinion of the Council of State, claimed a stand-alone position for the Netherlands as a Member State. The government writes: 'the government has always taken the view that this issue is a matter for the Member States and not for the European Union'. Such lyrics sound like music to my group. We will certainly remind the government of this at other times. Mr. Chairman. The longer I had thought about the bill, the more I was convinced that it would be a good idea to ask the Minister to reconsider. My group does not see much good in this. The only advantage will be that there will be considerable employment for the legal staff of large companies, but I doubt whether that is the intention of the legislator. In any case, I am curious about the answers given by the ministers, including the questions that have been asked to them in the interim via the interrupting microphone. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u184	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I now give the floor to Mrs Nanninga on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How sad it must be to wake up every morning and to conclude that reality still does not satisfy its own self-breeded utopia. Whoever wakes up like that, day in, day out, can only become bitter, because "we're right" after all. But no, the well-meaning role model driver, he, she, it, has an opinion and finds something. He finds that very fervent and dislikes it, but that is not the same as being right. And typical of that we-have-even-just-like-sentiment.. actually is the resentiment.. is this present bill. The top of large companies must count more women. I have no idea why I have to. I have no idea why that's right, but I have to. The lack of fundamental arguments why this should be done is, of course, obscured by beautiful jargon and a carefully constructed house of cards with growth quotas and targets. The deep-rooted assumption under this bill "Assumption" is, of course, something other than support "Assumption" is the failing world. Reality is not equal enough. The ideological blueprint has not been sufficiently realized in reality. And as always, a lack of equality is bought by sacrificing freedom. Bringing more women to the top of companies can only be achieved by depriving companies, investors and ordinary citizens of their freedoms. After all, everything for the great equalizer. My group has a brother dead from this kind of politics. We're not so spouty about sacrificing freedoms. But there are other arguments for not being happy with this idea. This proposal, for example, is double arbitrary. Apparently, women need help. But why only apologize based on their double X chromosomes? Surely there are many more denominations in the throes of oppression and underrepresentation that really deserve a place at our board tables? What is all this really extremely restrictive and binary thinking? I mean, if the minister is still working, why not have an ingrowth quota for non-binary status holders or targets for redhead Catholics? The grim house of identity politics eventually has as many rooms as there are individuals, if you are going to build all the identitarian blocks. So we really see possibilities. Why should only women be helped to throw away that supposedly terrible yoke of prejudice and oppression? Also arbitrary is the choice for the top of large companies. The princesses, the women who have much in life with them, must be catapulted into that. There is no mention here of positions in small businesses or for the ladies of the Binnenhof. What is not mentioned is the low level of commitment of the average Dutch woman to our labour market. I just mentioned it in an interruption. With the ambition for part-time work, the Dutch woman has a mustache. It's okay. That's a choice, but it doesn't bring you to the top. Now the same politicians as those who can grow to such a corporate summit after their political career are already pouring a quota into legislation. In any case, their private sector seat was purchased. We only have to look at the present thinning cabinet, the government team, to see that this is more than cynicism. Mr. Chairman. There is only one thing worse than identity policy, and that is selective identity policy. Why not targets for men in childcare? My husband took our little boy to day care this morning. There's hardly a man in the whole business. Isn't it extremely offensive to my poor boy that he doesn't learn through D66 forced examples that he can become anything he wants, including nursery worker? And what about the poignant lack of female role models in the construction industry, in the fishing fleet and in the garbage collection service? Mr. Chairman. Those who regard women as full-time should also agree with targets and preferred policies. We must not forget that we are saying this to the well-being of women in this house, or our daughters, on the basis of D66 dram policies that women regard as needy. Anyone who actually sees women as equivalent to men, or at least my group does, will not be seeking foreclosure or additional protection. This minister of, for God's sake, Emancipation matters, does not give women wings, but side wheels. Mr. Chairman. It is quite unclear to me why we should vote in favour of this proposal. My group is most likely not going to, unless the Minister manages to convince us. Why should women necessarily be at the top of the list and why not in all sectors and at all levels? How can they not achieve that themselves? Does Minister Van Engelshoven think that women should be saved or helped? Does she think this bill will help? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u186	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Mr Frentrop lets his turn pass for personal reasons. That is why I am now giving the floor to Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u187	What an unexpected pleasure, Mr. Chairman. The draft law before us is broader than just a little bit, and politically for my group it is also an illustration of how the cabinet sets priorities for solving social problems. In the explanatory statement, the cabinet writes: "The cabinet believes that we need all the talents in our country. Everyone in the Netherlands must have equal opportunities and be able to take advantage of them to develop talents and show them what they can do, regardless of gender and cultural background. Because (unconscious) prejudices create an unequal starting position, the cabinet takes two measures." Mr. Chairman. That's a recognizable image. Unequal opportunities for children from primary school. Unequal opportunities in applying for a job. Temporary contracts and flex contracts. Work not as capital, but as a disposable item. The texts contained in the explanatory memorandum by the Cabinet therefore raise great expectations. So what are the measures contained in this bill, in the explanatory memorandum? Firstly, large public limited companies and private companies are required to set appropriate and ambitious targets for governance, the supervisory board and the sub-top. In addition, they should make concrete plans to implement this and to be transparent about the process. For this purpose, the SER develops an infrastructure. Large public limited companies and private companies are obliged to participate in this infrastructure in order to monitor how companies fulfil their obligations and to reflect on others. This underlines the own responsibility of companies for diversity. Secondly, the male-female relationship on the board of directors of stock exchange companies should grow to at least one third of the number of men and one third of the number of women, subject to a void appointment. In the light of the broad approach... Mr Sent said just now that this legislative proposal is accompanied by a policy. I think that's a bit of a reverse world. I think this is a flanking policy, if you look at the number of people involved. Mr de Blécourt said that this concerns 105 listed companies, companies. If you take a calculation example of five or seven members of an Rvc, you come for the convenience of calculating 690 people. A third of them must be female, that's 230. Some of them have already been filled in. This policy seems to me to be more accompaniment than the broad approach advocated in the Jasper van Dijk/Van Weyenberg motion of December 2019. It called for a broad increase in the situation of women in the labour market. I therefore believe that this is the main policy, and that is why this is specifically accompanying policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u188	As I am addressed directly, I would like to clarify that my input was: accompanying policy in the legislative proposal before us, but also a broad commitment to women's labour market position. I wholeheartedly support them, so I hope there are no misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u189	Thank you for the clarification. Mr. Chairman. According to the Cabinet, this bill is needed to deliver better decisions and better business results, but then my question is: what did companies not see, all those years in which they could have gained economic advantage and better business results? Are successive cabinets so smart, or is business so stupid? Louis van Gaal is back; then we can do this again. But why can't they see that? Couldn't something else have happened to it if we looked at all the benefits that went to business? Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: we, as SP, are in favour of tackling inequality on the labour market, but also on the whole labour market. Of course, at the top. That's what we're here for. But the whole thought of the trickledown is one of long breaths and goes too slow as far as I'm concerned. In our opinion, more should have happened with the implementation, in concrete terms, of the Jasper van Dijk/Van Weyenberg motion, which was adopted on 3 December 2019 in the Lower House. In this way, the House of Representatives expressed its opinion on the importance of promoting equality of opportunity for all women who can and want to work. In concrete terms, in my group's view, this has led to too little. Similarly, the note following the report of January 2021, one year after the adoption of that motion, also showed. There were scenarios developed by the cabinet, but no concrete measures were taken, as the cabinet said: it is up to a next cabinet to make choices and take a next step towards equality between men and women and to facilitate women's labour market position better. That was in January of this year. We've been nine months. There's no sign of a new cabinet yet. A new cabinet has yet to get on its feet, and that is going to take us all far too long, because it is postponement and delay. If these scenarios are already there and there is, as I feel in this debate, a broad consensus in this Chamber on inequality in the labour market and on the point that something concrete must be done about them, not just at the top, but more broadly, then my question is: when is there a concrete plan to implement that motion? Measures need to be taken and not just scenarios that remain on the shelf. My group believes that such a plan should be available within six months. I would like to expect a response from the ministers and otherwise I will perhaps return to that in a different way in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, there are a number of issues in this legislative proposal that we must look at legally, as is our job. That is indeed, as has been mentioned a number of times, the question of quotas. D66 actually makes it a single quota, a balance quota. That is well thought out, but I believe that there are two quotas which must be balanced and which must also be examined separately. So there is still a point of attention. I'm not convinced yet by the cabinet's explanation. Several Members have asked for this. I would like to join those questions. The cabinet then gives an example of how this is done for listed companies with three or four members. Now I know the vc's from a lot of the 105 listed companies, if you go into that, but three or four are just numbers you don't find in them. It will be an odd number anyway for the sake of decision-making. Mostly it'll be five or seven. But then we get a complicated calculation, which is again included in a different rule in the law. If I interpret that rule correctly, it means that five members are going to be two and two, and seven members are going to be three and three. But why is it so complicated in the law? You could've just included it in the drawing board and looked at the practice. Mr. Chairman. What impact does the cabinet expect from the targets, even in view of their history? That has led to nothing so far, or at least far too little. Why is the SER gonna do this? I took a look at the website of the SER to see what they're doing. Well, it doesn't say they're an executive. It's gonna have to be rigged. Why does the ESC have to do it this way? Are there not other institutions for this, which can supply the figures to the ESC, on the basis of which the ESC can draw its conclusions? The SER becomes a kind of execution organisation, which is not really, if I read their site properly about what they all do. That doesn't make any sense. Nor will these targets be maintained. I know one thing from some experience with supervision and enforcement: if there is no enforcement, little will happen to it. That has also been shown in the past. So the question of what is going to happen will remain open. Others have asked for that too. Mr President, I will conclude. As a group and as a SP, we are very much in favour of equality in the labour market, and then for everyone and not just at the top. We still have some questions about the legal hooks and eyes. I asked those questions. But in concrete terms my question was: why delay and why, if there is broad consensus on this, can we not come up with a plan of action to improve the position of women throughout the labour market? I look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u190	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Finally, Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u191	Mr. Chairman. The first debate after the summer recess concerns making the relationship between men and women more balanced at the summit of large companies. The male-female relationship on our list of speakers today is after the resignation of Mr Frentrop fifty-fifty, so that gives enough hope that setting a women's quota for the First Chamber is not necessary. Mr. Chairman. It follows from the explanatory statement that there is an urgent need to accelerate the flow of women to the top. The 50PLUS Group recognises that the efforts made in recent years have not yet led to full equality. The Economic and Social Council, to be mentioned, calls for specific measures to promote diversity and inclusion in the industry summit. This bill follows a number of advice from the ESC. Large private and public limited companies are required to set appropriate and ambitious targets for the relationship between men and women on the board, the supervisory board and the sub-top and to report them to the ESC. In addition, the legislative proposal provides that the composition of the Supervisory Board and the non-executive directors of large private and public limited companies should be balanced, in that it consists of at least one third of men and one third of women. Appointments contrary to this rule are null and void but have no legal effect on the legality of the decision-making process. So much for an explanation of the bill. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is a strong supporter of diversity and inclusion, but for all groups in society. There is still a gender pay gap, with men in business earning as much as 7% and the government earning 4% more for the same job than women. I can't believe that in this country women are structurally earning less than men and are therefore disadvantaged. For 50PLUS, that immediately hits the heart of the criticism of this bill. My group wonders why there is no quota for the entire business sector, both private and public, if these ministers really want to tackle the gender discrimination in the labour market. Balanced diversity and inclusion in society is not achieved by limiting you to a particular sector or target group. Can the Minister explain to my group once again why she chooses only to apply a legal quota for so-called 'top women' and therefore for specific positions? How does it relate to the statement of the College of Human Rights that a male quota is not permitted under international conventions and national legislation? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. If the aim of this outgoing cabinet is to pursue overall equality between individuals through the setting of quotas, then my group has some suggestions. My group rejects the Minister's argument that one size fits all would not be appropriate. That argument is far too easy and also wrong. A quota for older workers, for example, is as easy or difficult to introduce as the compulsory appointment of a third top women and would also be much more effective for our society. Jobseekers aged 50 and over are barely getting a job, despite the attracting labour market. People who have passed 60 years may be happy if they get some temporary jobs until retirement, but often find themselves in a benefit situation. This age discrimination applies across the board: men, women, people with disabilities and those with disabilities. That's extremely sad. As a result, there is a huge loss of work experience, of labour potential. And it has a detrimental effect on the pension structure of this large group. In addition, it is putting increasing pressure on our social security system. Can the Minister of OCW explain to my group why a certain growth quota for employees aged 55 or over would not be feasible in private and public companies with an x size? I'd like to hear a response. In the view of my group, Mr President, inclusion and diversity need to be widely used and not limited to a single group of highly skilled women. In the opinions on diversity, the ESC has also advised on this diversity for the public sector. Vinkenburg's report refers to this. Nevertheless, this bill concerns only the private sector. As a result, the following question remains for the Minister: why this distinction? Mr. Chairman. The written rounds previously called for this bill to be compatible with European law. The opinion of the Council of State concludes that the proposal is at odds with the current case law of the European Court of Justice because all criteria are not met to justify positive discrimination. The government condones this by referring to a number of other EU countries, which have preceded us by setting quotas. It also refers to the recasting directive, and considers that account should be taken of the background to the time in which case law has been written. At the same time, on page 2 of the explanatory memorandum, the government states that the final interpretation of European law rests with the European Court of Justice. Yeah, that's what I used to think. Can the Minister for Legal Protection answer the following questions from my group? Are treaty texts more than judgments of the European Court of Justice? Is European case law overruled by, for example, the UN Convention on Women? What is decisive in the case of discrepancies between treaty texts and case law, according to the Minister? Should my group interpret its statements in the reply as follows? If case law is no longer so recent, is it regarded as obsolete and is it therefore of zero and no value at all? Mr Verkerk mentioned this as well. Should my group interpret these statements in this way and, if so, should this only apply to European case law, or also to Dutch case law? I'd like a clear answer. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the so-called 'target' for the number of women who are required to deliver the NVs and e.g. to the ESC. The ESC does not have a controlling, but a supporting task. The Economic and Social Committee may not impose sanctions if companies fail. What will the Minister do if companies give up only 1% or 10% as targets? For even then the objective of the law is not met. Can the Minister convince my group with arguments that only a supporting task of the ESC is sufficient to show satisfactory results after five years of evaluation? Mr. Chairman. I now come to the legal consequences of a void appointment. An administrative designation contrary to this bill shall be null and void if it does not comply with the compulsory quota of a third woman. However, the nullity of the appointment does not affect the validity of the aforementioned administrative decisions in which the relevant director or commissioner has participated. However, an administrative decision may cause damage, such as property damage, to the legal person itself or to third parties. Directors and Commissioners may be held jointly and severally liable for this, even if the damage was caused by a co-driver or a co-Commissioner. Can the legal person also claim damage on the ex-driver, whose appointment has been annulled? It took part in the decision-making process. Can co-drivers claim any damage on that ex-driver? And what does this mean for administrative liability insurance? Can an insurer reject a claim because an ex-driver knew or should have known that his appointment was contrary to the quota contained in the bill? By accepting his appointment, he has acted legally culpable. This also applies mutatis mutandis to those, co-directors and/or the legal person responsible for the late appointment. Can the insurer reject claims submitted by third parties on the same grounds, the invalid appointment? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. This whole bill is based on the premise that qualified women do not have equal opportunities as directors or commissioners. The reply refers to the Top Women database, which would include 2,000 board-ready women. This database is on the website of the ESC. Is the Minister aware that women can also register with the database without having any experience in administrative or supervisory functions? Does the Minister know that an endorsement, a letter of recommendation, is sufficient? Even as a woman who doesn't meet the required criteria, but finds her own, and that is of course a subjective fact that she has added value, you can still register for this database. Without wanting to fail, my group believes that, in view of what has been said here, some of the qualifications or experience required for an administrative or supervisory function may not be available under the 2,000 women mentioned. I'm quoting what's on the website. "Even if you do not want to enter the transfer market directly, we ask you to register for our database. SER Top Women has a clear mission: to accelerate the flow of women directors and Commissioners." Does the Minister agree with my group that this creates a distorted picture of the number of top women who look longing for an administrative or supervisory role? Has the Minister ever done any research on whether the 2,000 registered top women and/or what part of them would be suitable to meet the criteria for the functions that this bill envisages? My group would like to hear what other sources the Minister has to show that the number of 2,000 top women is realistic. Mr. Chairman. Speaking as a woman, I notice that this bill reminds me somewhat of the call of the late 1980s: a smart girl is prepared for her future. That was even a patronizing slogan back then. Anno 2021 is the question for my group as to whether women in general, but the target group of top women in particular, need this legal guidance by the government. Wouldn't the setting of quotas for other target groups in the labour market be much more effective in ensuring equivalence? I conclude with the words of Milton Friedman, an American economist, who said: "A society that puts equality above freedom, will end without both." My group looks forward to answering the questions put and will then consider them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u192	Thank you, Mrs Baay-Timmerman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting until 6.30 p.m. Perhaps in abundance, I would ask you to take into account the length of time from the Lange Voorhout to the Knight's Room in the resumption of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u193	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35628, Amendment of Book 2 of the Civil Code in relation to the more balanced relationship between the number of men and women in the board and the supervisory board of large public limited companies and private companies. We need the government's first-term response. I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you have just pointed out, this bill deals with measures aimed at achieving a more balanced relationship between men and women, at least in the sub-top and at the top of large companies. I think the cause for everyone is well known. The ESC has issued an opinion on encouraging a more proportionate participation of women in the summit, to address that problem that is still there in 2021. This legislative proposal is intended to implement the elements of that opinion. Mr Van Kesteren and Mr Van der Voort asked how I look at government intervention on this issue. Although I am defending the bill here, you may not be surprised that I am not immediately very enthusiastic about it. Because honestly, I find it disappointing that this bill is needed. I personally think it is the most normal thing in the world that there is a balanced relationship between men and women in organisations and thus in the summit. I think that organisations and companies simply cannot afford to focus only on half the Dutch talents. I don't think you're an attractive employer if you don't work on more diversity in your organization. In fact, I have the deep belief that such organisations will not survive in the long term. In other words, it's just part of today's agenda. At the same time, I note that industry has done too little about this in recent years. The ESC opinion is also clear on this: despite the target regime in force from 2013, there is still no gender balance at the top of the business community. On the one hand, you can say that it is nice that the ESC, the social partners, employers and trade unions, are now coming up with such a compelling opinion. But quite frankly, I would have preferred that these employers in their own companies had done a little more in their own organisations in recent years. Anyway, this is where we stand now. We now need to look at other more effective solutions, and we are doing so with the bill we are discussing today. In my view, that is a horse's drug, but apparently it is needed as a push in the back of those companies to make sure that for once there is real work done on diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u195	I would like to ask the Minister the following. You are talking about the ESC, which talked about encouraging companies. Well, that's different from a coercive measure, isn't it? Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u196	What we are doing with this bill is about codifying the opinion that the ESC has submitted to us. That diversity quota was about one-on-one. I will go into it later to see if it all fits in with international law. But if I think one thing is important about this advice from the ESC, that is what we two have weighed very heavily in the cabinet, then it is that it is nice for such a radical measure to have broad support for it. We didn't put a shovel on that one more time. Mr. Chairman. Because it is such an exceptional tool and because it intervenes in the free decision-making area of companies, we are going to evaluate the law in five years' time and a horizon clause has been included in eight years' time. The law will in principle expire in eight years' time, unless we come across things that change our minds when we evaluate it. I think that's a good balance in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u197	I just heard the Minister say that what we are applying is a horse's cure, but that it is absolutely necessary. But I also heard him say that you have a better employer if there's a good male-female relationship and that companies that don't do that automatically run into it. Now my question is: if the shore is going to turn the ship anyway and companies that do not apply this victorious diversity are going to go on the bottle, why is such a horse medicine necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u198	You could of course say: you know what, we do it very darwinistic, because then at some point the organizations and companies that apparently do not want to see it or do not want to work on it will die. But that is a long-term trajectory. In the meantime, as a government, I also believe that we have a public task and responsibility to do something about equal opportunities for men and women. I see that women are also simply inadequate, because it is difficult to intervene when there is a dominant male bulwark; a number of other Members have already indicated this in the first term. With this we want to place a wedge at the top of those listed companies. Mr. Chairman. I said something about the good balance in time. I also think that a good balance has been struck in the limited scope of the proposal. I'll say something about that later. It really zooms in on a limited number of listed companies and, of course, at the top or the supervisory boards of these companies, also in line with the SER advice. This is also due to the idea that there are men and women in it who have an exemplary role and function and who also have a responsibility in the selection and appointment of boards of directors. Mr. Chairman. Of course, this bill is not the magic button that solves the whole problem of inequality and diversity at once. This is part of a major approach. My colleague will look at all the questions that have been asked about this. When we talk about specific legislation, about such a specific part as this, I think you also have the reasoning that one can do one thing and not leave the other, and that this can make a positive contribution to the bigger picture. Let me start by zooming in on the specific questions that have been asked about this bill. I begin with the usefulness and necessity, also in relation to the scope. I have just said a few words about this. We see that there has been insufficient change in recent years. The stricter measures now before us are, therefore, the logical consequence of, you could say, or at least the justified result. If you see that less binding measures have not worked, then you are turning a blind eye. Ms. Nanninga asked if it wouldn't be arbitrary just to focus on big companies. These are purely Dutch stock exchange companies. This includes large companies, certainly, but also smaller companies. In the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, it is very reasoned that if you want to keep that limited and do not want to do so for all companies in the Netherlands, start with these companies because of their public exposure; they are not listed on the stock exchange for nothing. Also, you don't immediately get into trouble with issues like: how do you deal with family businesses, where, for example, on the board of directors and supervisory boards is also family? That is an issue if you broaden the scope. After all, you don't always have your daughters and sons for choosing. They are who they are. Maybe it'll be a little bit earlier. It is therefore a beginning; it is delimited and therefore in my view workable. Then do not run into Article 1 of the Constitution, Mr Van Kesteren asked. If, in the Netherlands, there were no distinctions between the grounds mentioned in Article 1 of the Constitution, including gender, a law such as this would not be necessary. But the practice is different. Therefore, Article 1 of the Constitution, like almost all constitutional articles, needs to be developed by means of further legislation to ensure that the objective, the intention behind the article, is actually achieved. Hence the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u199	I would like to zoom in on what the Minister said about Dutch listed companies. One: what if the board of such a company is abroad? We have also noticed quite often that when all kinds of taxes are levied, companies are inclined to go abroad. The second question is, therefore, whether this situation could not be done if you were put on the spot, for example with regard to your supervisory board.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u200	The scope and target group of the organisations concerned are very clear. I am not afraid that this legislation will unnecessarily push companies away or that we will make the location climate in the Netherlands less attractive. I have two reasons for that. The first reason is that industry itself has asked for this. That seems a little contradictory. It's almost tying it to the mast, but VNO-NCW and all the domes connected to it say it would be good if this came in the Netherlands. So I am not so afraid that they will then say, if there is one, that they are not happy with it. Two: we are not the only country in Europe to do so. Look at the countries around us, where similar legislation already exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u201	Thank you for the reassuring words, but I understand we're not going to do anything when the board is abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u202	These are Dutch companies, most of which are based in the Netherlands; they have to comply with them. And even if there were in theory a board or a head office that is not in the Netherlands, but I don't really know if there is, then they have to comply with that, because the Dutch law prescribes that. So if you want to be listed on the Dutch stock exchange, then this is part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u203	Thank you to the Minister for commenting on my complaint that this is an arbitrary proposal. The arbitrary was two-fold. According to my argument, it was not so much that they are listed companies, but that it is arbitrary that they are only the higher paid, high profile functions, i.e. not the low-paid or middle-paid jobs, or, for example, typical women's professions where a male quota should apply. And the other aspect that I consider arbitrary about this... I've just lost it. Oh, yeah, that being a woman was a category. So not that you're brown or in a wheelchair or gay, or make it up. No, it's just women, and only high-paid jobs. So in that sense, I found it two-fold arbitrary. That's not exactly what the minister suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u204	Yes, but that actually touches what I started with: that this is not the one law that solves all the problems in the world in terms of diversity and you name it. Because I think you have a point, that diversity is obviously wider than just man-woman diversity. At the same time, you cannot close your eyes to the crooked growth that exists at that point. And we believe, and indeed the ESC, that more needs to be done in this respect than we have done in the past. That's one. Two is: yes, I too find it problematic that if you look at below and sometimes even if you look at less well-paid, so to speak, normal functions, there are imbalances there. You gave it to the garbage collection yourself, but we also see it a lot in technical professions, male-dominated professions, where women sometimes have trouble getting in between, even if it's the jokes that are being made in the cafeteria. So you can see that there too there are stereotypes and role patterns that are not good, and that need to be worked on. It's the other way around. Take, for example, primary education, which is highly feminized. That, too, is problematic to me. I think that in a healthy organisation, it should be a clear, good balance between men and women. And I really think that's a nicer work environment for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u205	Well, for jokes in the cafeteria, that's why you just have to laugh. That makes the work even more cozy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u206	That depends on what kind of jokes are being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u207	Well, a little self-defense does wonders, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u208	Well, there are also a lot of women who choose a profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u209	There are jokes about me, too, and believe me, your life is getting a lot more fun and you also come a lot further if you can just laugh about that a little bit. Anyway, I want everyone to know that for themselves. But isn't it much more logical that you don't start at the top jobs? That is a very strange kind of preference policy, which of course doesn't work well either, because you sometimes have that question of "is that woman there because she is a woman?'. Then you'd really better start from the bottom, because you're flowing upstairs. So I'm gonna keep thinking it's a really weird choice, I'm gonna tell the minister. Just that focus on that summit all the time? Why not go downstairs and say it disrespectfully?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u210	I think you should do both. Look, this is behaviorable and limited in scope. And I think there is a very important example of more diverse supervisory boards, which are again responsible for the appointment of the administrative summit of companies. And you can say, I think Mr Janssen was talking about the trickledown effect that is then being looked at and ultimately has its effect. But of course it doesn't happen on its own. You will also have to do more on the work floor in a safe climate, where men and women both feel comfortable, where, if there is a dominance towards one side or the other, you actively seek to recruit new people who want to work there, or, preferably, prevent it from moving in one direction. For example, if you look at primary education, that is now very much feminized. But it hasn't always been. That's something we've all let happen. And then you see that, when the gender balance reaches a certain point at some point, it also goes crazy at some point. So that, too, is a reason to look at more balanced relationships between men and women in organizations. I think that I have also answered Mrs Prast's question as to why the Commissioners' councils were not elected. The ESC opinion says a few things about this. The Economic and Social Committee says: "We can agree with that reasoning, "where the boards of directors are appointed by the supervisory boards, it helps if there is more reflection in the appointment committees, with the expectation that this will be translated. In addition, the SER says that many large companies are recruited from the organisation and from the pool in it; then you should actually do what Mrs Nanninga does. That's a longer way to make sure you get people through that whole column, that whole organization just below executive level, and you get a better relationship between men and women. We need to work on this, but this is certainly a little less realizable in the short term than in the supervisory boards, although I would of course find it extremely tough if large companies, listed companies, show that they can do so within a limited time frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u211	I had asked questions about this in my first term. I am sceptical about this reasoning. In recent years, we have seen that as a result of policies, supervisory boards were able to recruit more women while the boards were simply left behind. So my question is how are you going to ensure that this does not happen again? Furthermore, I asked if you would be willing to look into the evaluation to see if this assumption really works and, if not, if you would come forward with action towards the board of directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u212	The first question is whether we include this in the evaluation: yes. I believe that Mrs Karimi has also asked me to look at where these women come from, whether they are Dutch nationals or from outside. That's what we're all taking with us. Often it is about international companies. So I have no immediate problem with recruiting internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u213	That wasn't my question. It was someone else's.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u214	Okay. They are certainly elements that we involve in the evaluation. If this proves to be the case, then we come to the fundamental question of whether such a quota works as intended. Of course, that can go both ways. On the one hand, the quota works, but only for the places where you really force it. On the other hand, I do not believe that we are going to work with quotas everywhere throughout the columns of organisations. My deep hope is, also because it can count on the support of the business community, that this will give you a tilt at the top and hopefully over time it will pass on to the rest of the organisation. It is not a guarantee of success, by the way. I fully agree with you that practice will have to show it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u215	I agree with you on the issue of quotas for the whole company. However, our governance model mainly consists of the board of directors and the supervisory board. That's just our model in the Netherlands. So I'm not talking about the whole company, I'm talking about the responsible governors. This bill with a growth quota is based on an assumption. Well, I guess you'll have to look into that assumption. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u216	We're definitely gonna do that. Then I don't think we need to think about the next steps until we finally see if that assumption, that policy theory, has worked as such. Mr. Chairman. I have already said something about usefulness and necessity, which were a few critical questions, but which I also have the impression there is broad support for. What more questions were asked about the issue of whether this is legally appropriate. Many questions have been asked about the measures contained in this bill in the light of European law. In order to answer that question properly, you have to distinguish between two things. On the one hand, the question of whether a quota, such an absolute measure, is possible as such. The second question is then: if it is possible, can this be done in the form proposed in this bill, the symmetrical approach to the quota? Let me start with the first: can a quota as such? I shall then turn to that second aspect. In any case, we believe that European law provides sufficient scope for a quota as such. European law has not stopped in recent years when it comes to the standards of equal treatment for men and women. In the past, European law has spoken about promoting equal opportunities. That's changed. Among other things, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union now talks about ensuring full equality between men and women in practice. In our view, these tougher objectives also include more binding instruments. This is also reflected in legislative changes on this issue in other European Member States, such as Germany, France, Belgium and Italy. In recent years, the Netherlands has gone ahead with setting up an absolute quota regime. Since then, we have also seen that this has not led to judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which would consider such arrangements to be at odds with European law. But you did ask a number of questions about that. For example, Mr Doornhof and Mr Verkerk asked whether Article 157 (4) of the Treaty allowed such a quota to be set. They also asked about the case law. Let me turn to that point of time, which we also discussed in the written round. What exactly has that changed? It is true that there is a ruling by the Court of Justice in the Abrahamsson case, following the Treaty of Amsterdam. That's a statement from 2000. That statement is now twenty years old. During these 20 years there have been a number of relevant developments, which make it my view that there is room for the proposed growth quota. For example, a recast directive was adopted in 2006. It focuses on ensuring full equality. It also goes beyond the principle of promoting equal opportunities. That's the move from stimulating to requiring more. It is also in line with Article 23 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union: equality between women and men must be guaranteed in all areas, including employment, occupation and pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u217	I thank the Minister for answering my questions. But I still miss the sharpness. On the one hand, he acknowledges that these statements are there. The Minister mentions the Swedish case of Abrahamsson, but in 2003 there was also a Norwegian issue. Then, on behalf of the government, the Minister says, "We do believe it is legitimate," using many different legal rules, which are different from the EU Treaty. Actually, I don't understand that very well. That is why I would like to put a question to the Minister. I do not understand that the Minister is so bold to say that he believes that it is in line with that. After all, we all know that no matter how many legal rules there are, there will have to be a real adaptation of the EU Treaty if the Court of Justice is to decide that such a quota can be. That is why my question to the Minister: should he not be more cautious about his opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u218	I think Mr Doornhof has a point when he says that I should not go and predict what judges do. That's never wise, because we don't know that at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u219	The point is, we do know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u220	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u221	The point is that we do know after that treaty amendment.... the Minister rightly pointed out that to promote to insurance................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then we can also explain the EU Treaty quite differently. The district attorney says twice: no. So it's not like we're predicting. No, we are reading the case law and we come to the conclusion that the Court has strictly legally said that such a quota cannot be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u222	Let me take back the point of the case law of the Court of Justice and the text of the Treaty. The case law of the Court of Justice explains how the Convention should be read. I think Mr Doornhof has a point to make when he says that older case law does not necessarily mean that there is outdated case law. There is a lot of case law in the Netherlands from decades ago that we are still falling back on. On the other hand, it is not the case-law that has eternal value. We also see that there may be developments as a result of legislative, regulatory and societal developments that ultimately allow judges to reach a different judgment. If we look at what's happened since then... I just gave you some examples. The Charter of Fundamental Rights has also changed the text and its sharpness. This is also the case in the Recast Directive. My mom used to say, when your friends jump into the ditch, you don't have to jump into the ditch yourself. But if you see that the countries around us have also taken the step towards these instruments, and that they have not done so over a night of ice, and that the ESC, in which professors with a third crown are in it who are legally very well educated, nevertheless come to the conclusion that this should be possible, it strengthens us in the idea that there is room for it. I can't give you that 100% certainty, but I really think it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u223	But would it not have been better, given the rather weak arguments that the Court might be dealing with, to include a point of risk in the legislative proposal, saying that we see that the case law was some time ago, but that it might be possible for the Court to think differently about such a quota? Would it not have been better to say: what are the consequences of talking about the rights of citizens or the liability of the State if the Court were to turn a finger on us as a Member State? I miss that. It is right that the Minister should at least say that he does not have a 100% chance of success in any legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u224	I think Mr Doornhof has a point when he says that you have to look at the risks. On the other hand, I really think the risk is extremely small. When I see what has changed in Europe and when I see the policy that the Commission has set in motion, and yes, you are quite right that ultimately it is not the Commission that determines the interpretation of the Treaty, but the Court of Justice, I think that the chances of this going wet will eventually be small.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u225	Finally, Mr Doornhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u226	Thank you for allowing me to do so, Mr President, because if the Minister mentions the European Commission, then I am going to shoot at this microphone again, because that is precisely what I was asking for, and the European Commission has come up with a proposal for a directive, in which the same suitability is expressed. It is therefore not an absolute automatic priority for women. Had the Minister followed the Commission's judgements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u227	That's right. You are referring specifically to the draft directive on women on company boards, which, moreover, has never entered into force because the Netherlands and a number of other countries have indicated that they do not want Brussels to be a task and prefer to do so themselves. It didn't go so far. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that the broader regulation, the Constitutional Decision, the Recast Directive, is based on a much more binding provision, including for individual Member States, in order to achieve a more balanced representation of men and women. You can't do that if you don't have the tools to do it. Then you also have to look at more compelling instruments to get there eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u228	I keep asking whether we should say that we read the treaties in part from the case law of the Court or that we say, as you say, that we see all kinds of things happening and broadening and the Court will therefore agree with them. My question is this. Do you have any indication from other Court rulings that the broader interpretation you give is in line with the views of the Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u229	I note that, despite the fact that many countries around us have been doing this for a long time, there has never been a case brought and the Court has never been able to touch on other countries with it. Apparently, the current practice is widely accepted in the light of the changed laws and regulations, including at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u230	Then perhaps you could explain the following to me. If that does not happen, does that automatically mean that all those other countries have taken their decision in accordance with the Court? Or could it be that these decisions are simply contrary to the case law of the Court, but for whatever reason no action has been brought against them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u231	Whether the social context has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u232	The fact that the social context has changed does not automatically mean that the case law is ignored, especially if the Court itself has not given a ruling on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u233	In the end, we won't know until a case is brought. The question is, who's gonna do that? The question is then whether this is a chance of success. If I were to make a plea on the basis of what has happened in the meantime, with strengthened directives which impose a much more binding obligation on individual Member States to do something about this, we would at least believe that that would provide sufficient ground for a solid case, a firm case that would justify the adoption of such instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u234	Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u235	I await further answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u236	I said something about European law. Mrs Baay-Timmermans also asked about the UN Women's Convention and how it relates to each other. They're basically parallel systems. The UN Convention on Women, like the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, allows a policy of preference. General Recommendation 25 to that Treaty even states that Member States may be obliged to introduce preferential measures if actual equivalence is not achieved otherwise. This is part of the system of the UN Convention on Women, which requires Member States to take all appropriate measures. We were just talking about EU law. We believe that this will allow you to arrive at this kind of quota. If you look at the UN Convention, you should even come to the conclusion that there is an obligation on countries to do so. Of course, you can always ask how these two relate to each other. I have to say that the bill fits into both regimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u237	Mrs Baay-Timmerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u238	Thank you, Mr President, otherwise I may be confused with someone named Timmermans and belonging to another political party. I had actually asked the Minister: how does a treaty text relate to the case law at all? You just had a whole story about that. In your opinion, case law can age, and I will summarize it in my own words if the social developments are so. I understand from the Minister that this can indeed put aside case law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u239	A new social context may arise, also because new regulations have entered into force, which impose a firm duty on countries to do something about this. A firm duty also involves firm measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u240	I understand. This is, of course, without prejudice to whether the assurance or strengthening of a position is equivalent to the introduction of a certain quota.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u241	We think this fits in there. I believe that all the arguments in this area have also been exchanged. I'm getting to the second part. This is not so much about the bindingness of a quota or the absoluteness of a quota, but much more about the sustainability of the symmetrical approach to that quota. Some of your Members said that this bill contains a female quota and a male quota. No, it contains a diversity quota based on balanced relationships in supervisory boards. Prior to the legal questions, it might be good to consider what we really want to achieve with this. In other words, I want to look not only at what is possible, but also at what we really want. What do we think is right? Then we'll see if that fits. The ultimate goal, as reflected in the ESC opinion, is to achieve a balanced ratio in the top of the company. We're assuming that 30/30. Eventually, you want it to be more or less... It will never be exactly fifty-fifty, so there must always be room for flexibility. It also has to do with the number of Commissioners on a supervisory board. The quota is based on balanced ratios. This quota is not a female quota. It's not a male quota either. It's a diversity quota. We want to offer equal opportunities for everyone. So that also works both ways. At present, the proportion of women in the top of the business world is lagging behind, but you can also imagine in theory that the opposite situation is conceivable in the case of an individual company. That diversity quota would also have an effect on that. The aim is therefore a balanced relationship between women and men. This is also consistent with previous government policies, including the targets applied until 1 January 2020. They also had a symmetrical approach, also a legal basis based on a law passed through both chambers, including this Chamber. In addition, I think it is important to take such a measure, which can also count on support. I believe that Mr Doornhof referred to that. He asked some critical questions about this, but also found that there is a heavy opinion from the ESC. I think that's important, too. The ESC also assumes a quota in this form. Then there's the international context. I therefore respond directly to the questions that have been asked about this by... I believe that almost everyone has mentioned it briefly in his contribution. What about adding the'male quota', as was briefly mentioned here. Is that legally legitized? Let me begin by highlighting that we are not the only country that does this. Other countries operating under the same European law, France, Germany, Belgium and Italy, also operate a similar symmetrical system. These countries are bound by the same international standards. This did not lead to any case-law that it would be contrary to international or European law. That's a similar discussion we just had. We must also note that the European Court of Justice has never examined a diversity quota in the form set out in this legislative proposal. In short, we do not know for sure whether it is possible, but we do have some clues in that direction. I say this with emphasis, because some of the Members said: yes, but there was no male quota, was there? Yeah, if it was just a male quota, I do think you have a complicated story going to the Court of Justice. But this isn't just a male quota. This is a diversity quota based on equal proportions, equal opportunities and a reflection of that in supervisory boards. For us, it is an important indication that European law supports a symmetrical quota based on equal distribution. We also see support for this in a number of other places. The design of the proposal for a directive on the improvement of the gender balance of non-executive directors, of listed companies in the European Commission, also assumes a minimum share of women, but also of men. So there's also the symmetry. The choice is also in line with Article 157 (4) of the EU Treaty. This speaks of ensuring full equality between women and men in working life in practice. That's the international part. Then there is the question of whether it actually fits in with our own legislation; the General Law on Equal Treatment and the Equal Treatment of Men and Women. A slightly more technical reasoning is that the College previously considered that membership of a supervisory board should be regarded as a secondary function and therefore outside its scope, and then it is logical that this should also be the case for Commissioners. But even in cases where a Commissioner would fall within the scope of both laws, the starting point is that the proposed temporary growth quota for these specific functions always precedes lex specialise on what is generally laid down in general legislation. In short, the government believes that a quota in this form is now possible, both nationally and internationally. Mrs Sent then asked: yes, but the written reply refers to the UN Convention on Women, which does not provide a legal basis for a male quota. Yeah, that's right, at least in part. The government proposes a symmetrical quota, which in practice will almost always lead to the need to appoint a woman and, exceptionally, perhaps once in a while, to the need to appoint a man. The UN Convention on Women only deals with combating discrimination and inequality against women, so, as Mrs Sent says, it does not provide a legal basis for a policy of preference for men. This is not, of course, the subject of the UN Convention on Women. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU does provide a basis for a symmetrical quota, as this is reflected in Article 157 (4) of preferential policy, not of women, but of the underrepresented sex. In doing so, it explicitly leaves room for manoeuvre, whether in specific cases it is men or women. Mr Verkerk asked about the reasoning of the Joke Smit Foundation. He claims that the cabinet is wrongly basing itself on the committee that monitors compliance with the Women's Convention. I think there may be two aspects that are mixed up here. The government invokes the UN Convention on Women when it comes to whether an absolute quota is allowed, that is, a quota with nullity sanctions. The UN Women's Convention allows such a quota, and I also have the impression that the Joke Smit Foundation agrees with that. The Foundation also points out that the UN Convention on Women only deals with women's preferred policies. So the treaty does not refer to a symmetrical quota as it is included in this bill. That is true, but neither is the Women's Treaty talking about a policy of preference for men where men are the underrepresented sex. In other words, the UN Women's Amount - the name says it all - deals specifically with measures that are obvious or permitted or even mandatory where women are disadvantaged. This does not, in my view, automatically exclude the symmetrical approach we are proposing here. Then I come to the final conclusion. Do we consider it necessary as a cabinet to amend the bill on this part, for example by means of a novelle? The answer to that is negative. Mr. Chairman. I go from international law and the question of how this proposal fits into it, into the functioning of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u242	I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer, because that is, of course, a very important point of the debate. I notice some tension in his line of argument. Please help me remove these tensions. I fully agree with the utility-and-need argument. It is based on the fact that in recent years there has been insufficient change in the appointment of women in that whole top level. Not the appointment of men, but the appointment of women in those positions. Then you say: we opt for a diversity regime. That is not a women's quota, it is a diversity quota. There are two problems with this. One is that the first argument is not in line with the second one. And the second point is, if you're talking about diversity, it's much wider than man-woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u243	That's right. Maybe I should be more precise. I found that there is still insufficient gender diversity at the top of listed companies. When you say: there is insufficient diversity, you come up with a diversity measure. Hence the diversity quota.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u244	Targeted at man-woman, because the men who are abundant in the top, are also mainly white. We also see little diversity in cultural backgrounds, for example. I would simply like to see this formulated more precisely. You say that this is going to stand, because then we will base it on gender equality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u245	When you find that there is a problem with gender diversity, you come up with a gender diversity quota. In scrabble, that would work fantastic. That is, in fact, what this proposal is. It is based on a quota for more equal relationships between men and women at the top of companies. That can work both ways. Mrs Karimi, of course, has a point. I find it problematic if a board of Commissioners is made up of guys only, but I also find it problematic when a board of Commissioners is made up of women only. That is why I think it is right to say that we should base ourselves on what we are trying to do, on equal opportunities, on equal proportions, and that is what the quota that we are proposing here is in line with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u246	In principle, I agree with the Minister's argument, but of course we do not operate in a vacuum. We are in a development of thousands of years, in which we are dealing with a disadvantage and exclusion mechanism. It may be that a company says "I hope one of them insists that it is right to address these social problems to name only women, but in fact it cannot do so with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u247	I'd think that was a stupid decision from a company like that. Quite apart from the fact that it doesn't fit in with the proposal as we drive it here: if you really want to show diversity and if you really want to show it at the top of your company, I think you should respect it. I think that the argument for overcompensating to make up for what has been done too little in the past or to compensate for what other companies have left too much. I don't think that's a good argument. We stand for more diversity and diversity means more balance. That could be about women, sure, but in theory it could be about men.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u248	Mr President, if I may, one more point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u249	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u250	Yeah, finally. I think we have different interpretations here. Emancipation can take place in different ways. We are still on the path of emancipation. You say that Article 157 does give that opportunity, because it concerns the under-represented sex. But that's not about one company. I'm really wondering if that's gonna hold up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u251	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u252	That's the question. That's your interpretation of what's in there. If it had been so obvious, the question would also be legitimate why it is not simply said "the representation of women." Because then it's much clearer. I will come back, once again, to the point that if you want diversity, you must respect diversity. Then I don't think it's weird that when you ask for balance, you also strike a balance on both sides. And that's basically what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u253	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for all the efforts he has made to clarify the law. You also said quite explicitly: it is just in line with Dutch policy. In my contribution, I referred to the Note preferential treatment of May 2005, which explicitly states that preferential treatment should be limited to women, ethnic minorities and disabled people. Would you like to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u254	Something has happened since 2005, but not so much. I believe that my fellow Member, Mr Tugendhat, will say more about this later. I think that I am simply speaking as a Liberal, perhaps a better approach to tackling the problem than talking about preferential treatment. What you want to do is pursue diversity. That is, in fact, what we are trying to do with this bill, and that is why there is a balance. So it is not just about compensation on one side, but about the pursuit of balance, balance, with a symmetrical diversity quota.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u255	That means saying: with the developments that followed on the basis of diversity, the 2005 directive is, as it were, automatically defeated. Is that your line of reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u256	I don't know if you were talking about a directive. I think you were talking about a policy paper. That is different from a directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u257	Sorry, sorry. It's a note. It is a note on the basis of a policy line, but I do not know exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u258	Yeah, a lot of notes are being made. Sometimes a little too much. I think the honourable Member is going to say something about the emancipation note or the diversity note. I don't even know what that note is. I believe that its predecessors have already taken a number of steps in this area, since 2005. I am now entering a bit of my colleague's territory by giving my personal translation of the whole now. In a distant past, in 2005 and before, we were very much relying on a policy of preference and one-sided compensation for what was left behind. As a liberal, I had a bit of a problem with it on parts. Now we say: we are pursuing equal opportunities and we want to build on diversity and balance. I think that's a better story morally. That's why I'm so supportive of this symmetrical angle, apart from the legal context. I think this is justified, and I think this is the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u259	Finally, Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u260	I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u261	As a Social Democrat, I believe that preference policy is only allowed in order to eliminate unacceptable imbalances. I note that I disagree with the Minister. I have a question about the so-called "symmetry" in the bill. There is a horizon clause in the bill. Why would you put a horizon clause in a bill if you're aiming for symmetry? A horizon clause, I think, is precisely an argument that shows that it is not about symmetry, but about explicit women. How's that horizon determination related to that symmetry? This is something you should always pursue, so why put a horizon clause in the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u262	There are a lot of things that we always strive for, but which we do not necessarily always lay down in laws and regulations. Then I fall back on the thesis that you are actually intervening here in the freedom of companies to organise and shape it as they see fit. If I were at the top of a company myself, I would know and I wouldn't even need such a law to do something about the various composition of the team. But if you do intervene, then the question is: what legitimizes government intervention? Well, that lag legitimizes that. In doing so, we assume that a temporary measure is necessary for a specific target group, but not forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u263	If I listen carefully to the Minister, he says that it is a temporary measure to reduce the backlog of a group. Then it is de facto a female quota and not a symmetrical quota with that horizon clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u264	No, it is a temporary measure to ensure that the supervisory boards are more diverse. That is why it is also a diversity quota. And I'm actually assuming that I'm going to, but that's what I'm doing silently, which isn't necessarily necessary. Because as soon as that composition is more diverse, I believe that diversity will also be maintained. Okay, I think we've had the main course. At least we have talked about the part about which most critical questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u265	The main course of your part, I presume?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u266	Of my part, yes; I have to watch out for making comments. Can we do this? Does it fit into the laws and regulations? That's what this was about. I come now to matters that are more about the functioning of the law. In addition, there are two parts. I want to start with the "growth quota." This means that male-female relations in the supervisory boards must grow to at least one third for one sex and one third for the other sex. An appointment that does not contribute to this will be contrary to the law, and will therefore be null and void. However, third parties are not supposed to suffer. Therefore, the nullity of an appointment does not affect the validity of decisions taken by the Agency. A number of questions have been asked about this. The first question on this is from Mr Schalk. He asked, "What about enforcement?" If a listed company appoints a man on the supervisory board in violation of the law, it is true that there is no need to pay a fine or stop the work. Instead, nullity of the appointment was chosen as a sanction for non-compliance with the law. We have done so because nullity is a known sanction in company law. In addition, several countries around us, for example Germany and France, also use a form of nullity as a sanction. We see that this is paying off and therefore believe that this can also work in the Netherlands. What does it mean in practice that a null appointment has no effect on the legality of decision-making, he also asked. As I said, the nullity of the appointment does not affect the legal validity of the decision-making process. In practice, this means that a decision of the supervisory board taken with the participation of the annulled Commissioner will remain valid even after the nullity of the appointment has been established in court. A decision of the supervisory board taken with the participation of the annulled Commissioner after the nullity of his appointment has been established in law is, however, invalid. Of course, that is not crazy either, because then it has become clear to the company that something is not right. Then, of course, you also expect action from the relevant supervisory board to replace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u267	In the event of equal fitness, the woman is preferred. Well, it turns out that in an appointment, the man is a little more appropriate. That is being challenged and that man's appointment is being declared null and void. Is it true that such a company has to prove, with all kinds of legal procedures, that the male candidate was more suitable than the female candidate? Is that where we're going?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u268	You could also say, "Maybe that company should look a little better at one of these moments." Perhaps such a company has something to make up for, because you will of course only end up in this scenario where there is imbalance on either side. Starting from a third on both sides also means that you have some more choices if you're about in the middle. It is not a forced decision that you have to fill a specific vacancy with a man or a woman. This is actually only true of very small supervisory boards. But, yes, where there is one way or the other, really a board of Commissioners out of balance, it is obvious with this bill that you have to fill such a vacancy with a woman for example because they are underrepresented on the supervisory board. So that's not on the basis of equal fitness. That is the hardness, the absoluteity of this quota. Then it just has to be a woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u269	Last question, Mr President. We assume that there has been a very strict selection procedure. The intention of the company is really to give a female candidate the preference. But yes, it turns out that it is also a responsibility in business management that this man is the best candidate among all those candidates. If a company can support that well, then as far as you're concerned, is that okay? Or are you gonna say no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u270	No, the law contains a very small exception. In exceptional cases, for example with a company in great need or falling over, which needs very specific expertise on its supervisory board, you could deviate from the hardness of this quota on that basis. But basically, if you don't meet, for example, 30% women on the board of directors and a vacancy has to be filled after a guy leaves, then you have to compensate. Then you don't have to look for men, because you actually know that, with this law in your hand, it has to be a woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u271	Let me start with a compliment. I know Minister Dekker who explains exceptionally well from his head. And he just started reading something, and then I didn't get it at all. That was about the validity and legal effects of the nullity of such a decision. Then he started diving into his document. I don't think he understood it either; neither did I. Would he like to try to explain it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u272	That's the challenge I'd like to face. The fact that there has been an appointment that is not in line with the law ultimately leads to the nullity of the appointment. But of course you do not want to automatically saddle third parties with the consequences. That is why we have chosen to say that decisions taken by the entire supervisory board are simply valid. I think that's an important one until the moment the nullity has been established. Then it would be weird if you continued to tolerate such a situation. This is an even stronger task than under the rule of law: the supervisory board then has a duty to properly fill in that vacancy very quickly. Those were actually the basics. I do not know if I have succeeded in my mission, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u273	We're gonna hear it. Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u274	Not quite yet, because what is ultimately the result?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u275	As a result, the Commissioner in question must leave. If the organization does not do so if the nullity has been established in law, then they do have a problem. Because then they will take decisions with a board of Commissioners that they know about and what has become certain that it is not right. Then they're gonna make non-legal decisions. But I really suspect that that is a theoretical case and none of those listed companies will. After all, you are taking such a huge business risk that none of these companies will ever go into that dangerous sailing water. But in theory that would be the consequence. In the normal situation, I think it's ready-to-use for everyone that needs to be met. If, after all, you appoint someone who is not in line with that absolute quota, then it will be possible to challenge it by anyone and then it can be established that the appointment is not valid or null and void, after which the Supervisory Board must act. The reason why we have made a cut when it comes to decisions is because we believe that third parties can be suppliers, shareholders, but on the other hand, should not be undermined by the fact that there has been an appointment that is not okay, in the sense that all decisions of the supervisory board would no longer be valid. That is, of course, very far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u276	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u277	Finally, Mr President. Then who can correct that board of Commissioners that has taken a decision which can be annulled but which can still make progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u278	The judge. The judge will at some point...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u279	Then the shareholders will say: board of directors, you have made a decision, which is fantastic for the company, but because there is something null and void somewhere, is the decision not going to happen? It's been done a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u280	Mr President, we are talking very much about theoretical cases here. This law isn't that complicated. We are not talking about many companies, many of which may be out of sight. This is about listed companies that are under a magnifying glass: as soon as this law enters into force and an appointment takes place, it says one day later in the newspaper. Then you can raise your finger, then the shareholders can raise their finger, and then you can just go to court to make sure that something happened here that is not in line with the law. The judge will then say that the appointment was ultimately void. Perhaps a company will then come up with a reasoning that is somewhat in line with Mr Van Kesteren: you have an exception. But that's really a mouse, mouse, mouse hole. Then you also have a judge to see if the argument is good enough. But basically: the quota applies, you have to meet that. If you don't, it'll jump right into the eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u281	I'm a little confused about the interpretation of nullity. I think null and void means that an appointment has not taken place. I'd like to hear that confirmed. This also means that there has been no decision-making with the person whose appointment is null and void. Because it didn't happen, that appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u282	Well, you could say the contribution didn't take place to. But you cannot say that this has nullified the decisions of a supervisory board. Suppose that you have been in that twilight area with a misappointed appointment and that a board of commissioners has meanwhile appointed a member of the board of directors or made another far-reaching decision on the organisation's strategy, then all this would no longer be valid. That is, of course, a very far-reaching consequence, which many others can also suffer. That's why we use a haircut there. Then there's the question of liability. Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked some questions about that. Let me take a look at the formal reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u283	Still, just a few moments about the details of the discussion we just had. A quorum could be lost because someone took part in the decision-making process and did not participate because of the nullity. What are the consequences of that? Surely a decision cannot stand if there is no quorum?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u284	Now we're diving into technology very much. I think that is a very relevant question, but I will come back to that in the second term, if you will allow me. I can improvise now, but let's do it precisely in connection with legal history. Then there's the question about liability. If the supervisory board takes a decision that is harmful to third parties, those third parties will initially hold the company liable. That is also obvious, because the act will be regarded as an act of the company, not of individual members of the supervisory board. Nor does the mere appointment of one of the Commissioners have any influence on this. The threshold to then arrive at joint and several personal liability of the Supervisory Board is so high that it will rarely occur in practice, in my view. There must then be improper supervision, for which the Commissioner can be seriously accused personally. If that exceptional situation arises, there is, in fact, an act of tort or tort by the designated Commissioner. But even then you could say that it is not relevant whether the person in question has been named validly or not. What about insurance companies? Whether the insurer will cover the damage is a discussion between the annulled commissioner and the insurer. So that is also difficult to answer in general terms. It obviously depends on the circumstances of the case. Did the commissioner know about the nullity? At what point did he know about it? How much information did he give the insurer? How much information did the insurer ask for? And of course it depends on the explanation of the policy conditions. The debate will therefore take place only if the legal person addresses the annulled Commissioner, but it depends on a lot of factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u285	I would like to return to the fact that a decision may have been taken by the supervisory board which ultimately causes damage. Of course, a third party will initially appeal to a legal person. However, the legal person also has an internal possibility of liability, namely to exercise that joint and several liability if that Commissioner's decision has been such an infringement and has caused damage. This is also a trend since the 1990s. I believe that it is in any case legally important whether or not such an ex-director whose appointment is void can be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u286	I also pass this pass to the second term. I think the reasoning is: "If the appointment is null and void and therefore never took place, what about the formal act? Did it happen? Or did the person in question at least make a contribution?" I can imagine that, but it is also a bit in line with what Mrs Sent asked. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u287	Mrs Baay, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u288	A question has also been asked about insurance policy conditions. I do not think that they are very relevant if an insurance company argues that someone could have known or should have known that his appointment might be annulled. It's not that hard. We are talking about top women, top people who apply, go through the documents and know exactly what the composition of the supervisory board is. They can therefore see for themselves that it is obvious that their appointment could be annulled. There is therefore a culpable legal conduct to be attached to this. Perhaps you'd like to pass on that question as well. An insurance company can then easily say: you should have known that and so we reject your claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u289	Yeah, but that depends on what the claim is about. The claim is probably in the vast majority of cases about the things that the company has done as such and not about individual negligence of a member of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u290	Yes, but if the insurance company follows this reasoning, it can also follow it for the legal person, because of course the legal person also has the knowledge to determine whether this could possibly have been a void appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u291	Yes, but it all presupposes a connection with the unjust appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board and the decision of the company, which has caused damage to a third party. That's a very long causal conspiracy. I'm trying to figure out in my head if I can think of a theoretical example of that. I don't see that right away. Since we have made a cut between the nullity of the appointment, which does not interfere with the validity of the decisions of the supervisory boards, all decisions of supervisory boards that have negative effects on third parties will also be valid as such. It is therefore logical that you should appeal to the legal person and not so much to the man or woman in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u292	Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the Minister. Is what ministers are trying to do with this bill not similar to the Governance and Supervision Act? It states that, although the decision-making process involved is not affected, the appointment itself is null and void. So maybe in the second term the Minister can do something with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u293	Yeah, a similar cut we made here, of course. Yeah, that's parallel to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u294	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u295	About the quota, a few specific questions. For Mr Janssen asked: yes, that "a third/a third," how about that; shouldn't you have taken a staffel? I actually think that a third/one-third is very workable, especially with the explanation we have given in the pleading. You could even say that the BW has no ceiling on the number of Commissioners, so that would be a very long stalemate. And in other areas too, we do work with proportions, half of them or a third of them, so I think that will work out in practice. Then there was the concrete question of how to deal with non-binary persons, say those who do not want to identify themselves as men or as women. And with the whole discussion about this, in what light should we see this bill? Yes, that is a very separate discussion, but it is without prejudice to the fact that there really is a problem in the relationship between men and women. That's why we're coming up with this bill. How do you deal with the issue in practice? Suppose a non-binary person is appointed commissioner. Then the law offers enough room to take into account that person, who is not within the classical male-female relationship. The company may, when registering, rely on the identity of the person concerned, whether male, female or non-binary. Non-binary workers can be included in the under-represented sex, as this will certainly not be a dominant category of workers. For example, the SER looks at how it deals with the formats and the formats, say, the monitoring and recording of the whole, whether it can provide space to report, in addition to the number of men and women, on numbers of people who do not feel at home in those binary categories. Mr. Chairman. That's one side of the bill. Then there is the side of the targets. The legislative proposal introduces an obligation for large NSAs and e.g. debt securities, which is a much larger category than the listed companies alone, i.e. some 5,000 debt securities to set appropriate and ambitious targets themselves. To do so, they need to draw up a plan of action, and they need to report on this every year in their management report. And they do the same to the ESC. It should be made clear what the actual gender distribution is in management, supervisory board, sub-top. Companies must be transparent about the action taken to achieve the objectives set. And companies do not achieve those goals, then they also have to explain why. The SER supports that and monitors the reporting. A number of questions have been asked about this, and the first is from Mrs De Blécourt. It says: will the companies now comply with the target scheme, because in the past they have not shown themselves to be of their best, under the old legislation, the old 30/30 with the application clause. I think it's different now, for a number of reasons. Here too, it is also a question of support. I think it also matters that the business community has committed itself fully to these agreements through the ESC. So I will also use the SER to address VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands if we find that it is not getting off the ground enough. We also see it on two other elements. That is the combination of, on the one hand, a harder instrument, the growth quota, which is, by definition, effective because it is more binding, and, on the other hand, the different design of the targets which, in my view, ultimately leads to better compliance. Why? We immediately have the answer to the question of why this 30% is being released. I think it makes more sense to say to companies: this is where you stand now, make yourself a growth path for how you want to take steps in it. In the past, in theory, we also had companies that were very far away. Then it's kind of like: I'm never gonna make it soon, so forget it. On the other hand, you may have companies that have made all that 30%, but we don't really want them to stop. So I think it helps to get companies to set their own goals and communicate more actively with their stakeholders. Mrs Sent asked a question about the relationship between the ESC and the monitoring committee of the Corporate Governance Code. For listed companies, the provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code apply. This is an instrument of self-regulation. The monitoring committee shall report annually on compliance. In principle, this bill does not change that. However, this legislative proposal imposes an obligation on large companies to set and report those targets to the ESC. These obligations may co-exist and the role of the ESC is also separate from that of the monitoring committee. It is indeed an additional task for the ESC that we are legally regulating with this bill. In short, one is a legal obligation and the other is a form of self-regulation. In fact, we do not have that much to say about self-regulation. With this bill, a number of things certainly run in parallel. Mr. Chairman. I think I have already said a few things to Mrs Karimi about the evaluation and that we will take her points into account. Mr Van der Voort asked about the entry into force of the law. Yeah, we'd like to do that as soon as possible. If your Chamber adopts this bill, I assume we can start on January 1st. This also has to do with the fact that the other law is now over and we are a bit in a legal vacuum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u296	Thank you, Minister. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, after the cathedral has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u297	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to thank Members for their initial contribution. I am particularly pleased that we can discuss this bill here today. I would also like to point out that this bill had never been passed, if it were not for Mariëtte Hamer and Hans de Boer, who unfortunately escaped us far too early, to have worked on it with unbridled commitment, so that this could be supported. I'm grateful to them every day for that. The Minister for Legal Protection and I made sure that the bill got there as soon as possible. It has already been accepted by the House of Representatives and we hope, of course, that your Chamber will accept this. But this bill has a long history. I would like to dwell on that, because it explains on a number of points why the bill is put together as it is. More than eleven years ago, at the end of 2009 Mrs Sent also referred to the fact that a number of MPs of the Labour Party, the CDA and the VVD found that the Netherlands had a very low number of women in administrative positions compared to other countries and that this was not expected to change in a natural way. So there was the Kalma c.s. amendment. In that amendment, the proposers stated that they wanted a target, with the aim of a more balanced distribution of seats on the board of directors and the board of directors of large companies. The scheme finally entered into force on 1 January 2013 and ended in 2016. At the heart of the bill was that companies should aim for at least 30% women and 30% men. So even then that amendment opted for a symmetrical approach. Also reflecting on Mr Verkerk's question about emancipation policy: you are right that the policy has always been: a policy of preference for women, ethnic minorities and people with disabilities. But with this amendment and with this bill, there has been a turnaround and we have looked much more closely at a symmetrical approach in this respect. If you look wider in the emancipation policy, you'll especially look at that broader diversity. This is reflected in the wider opinion of the ESC.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u298	I understand that the Minister explains it in such a way that she says: from that law you can also think wider. Let me look at the note to which I referred, which has appeared in relation to the AWGB. Does the example you mention that the AWGB and the Criminal Code do not allow a male quota, a male preference policy? Does that disprove what you're saying now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u299	No, what I'm saying is that much earlier, with the broad agreement of both chambers, that symmetrical approach has been chosen. This has since become a broader approach to emancipation policy. Looking not only sec at preferred policies, but also at where that leads in an organisation. A preferred policy is for people who are in a disadvantaged situation. We still do, only the result you're sending is now much more symmetrical. That's what we do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u300	I get that. But if you are going to look at all the standards, then that always has to be shown that there is a certain delay when you set up a preferred policy. I do not know any organisations at this time. At least they do not exist where there is clearly a long-term men's disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u301	When I look at the primary schools, they were just mentioned, for example, I see a lot of women there. That does not mean that we want to do so. We really want men there, but we can't have them. When I look at the emancipation policy we pursue, when I look at education, for example, we say: yes, there too, a better reflection of society for the classroom is better than just women. In the healthcare sector, we also say that a broader reflection of society is better than an over-representation of women. It remains that I do have concerns about the proportion of women in school administration, because they are mainly men. But what you keep looking at is whether it reflects in a broader sense. In a society in which we find that diversity exists, you also want to see it in different organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u302	Finally, Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u303	I haven't expressed myself sufficiently here. I didn't mean organisations in general, but the supervisory boards and boards that are the subject of this bill. I'm not familiar with the fact that men are lagging behind on a large scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u304	No, me neither. But what you don't want is that it would go crazy and that you would get all female boards or boards from commissioners. That is why we say, and not just us, but also Belgium, Italy, Germany and France: let us make sure that there is some symmetry in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u305	Finally, Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u306	I know the village of Thorn has been run by women for 600 years by coincidences. They were protected by the bishop of Liège and a number of other bishops. So they were protected by the church. But I don't know any other situations where women were always in power and men were pushed away. I understand that there are hypothetical situations, but I still have some difficulty with that male quota, despite your explanation. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u307	It's not a male quota, but it's a symmetrical approach that we're not introducing new with this bill, but it's been in the law since 2013. Mr. Chairman. Since the law was introduced with the legal target, it has been monitored annually. Those monitor numbers didn't cheer you up year by year. The company monitor also noted in 2014 that the share of women in the top of large companies was extremely disappointing. This also did no justice to the potential of female talent. In this context, the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science and VNO-NCW have set up the Women's Programme to the Summit. That programme showed very well that employers also saw the importance of more women at the top. Several measures have been taken to encourage this and to draw attention to it in companies, in the hope that companies will actually start working on it. For example, the top women database has been created, with more than 2,500 female candidates for a position at the top of the business community. I shall now turn to the question of whether they all really meet the criteria. There has been a lot of movement, a lot of consciousness has been generated, but still the results were left behind. What we saw was that the progress that was made was actually mainly with a number of frontrunners, but that there was little movement in most of the companies. From the observation that if it were to continue in this way, it would take decades before we finally got where we want to be, there was still a feeling that more had to be done. In 2017, therefore, the legislation was extended again to ensure that companies were given more time. This is always in the hope that this would be picked up by business. At some point we have realized that it is going to take far too long with this non-committality and that this can no longer be the starting point. In 2018, I announced that if there were no real progress, the cabinet would come up with more firmer measures. What more robust measures, which can also be supported, can you then come forward with? That is why we asked for advice from the ESC. Why the ESC? Because we also felt it was important to look at the package of firmer measures that we could come up with which we could count not only on the support of employers but also on the support of employees. I was therefore very pleased that the FNV, in a letter this week, expressed its support for this bill, even though you may want to see all kinds of other things happen for women in the labour market. I'll come back to that later. The FNV also says: we now consider this bill necessary. The ESC therefore also provided a firm opinion and a good opinion and proposed, among other things, this growth quota. The entire opinion of the ESC is much broader. That's about the wider business world. That's about broader layers in companies. It is also about cultural diversity, for example. Mr. Chairman. Nor should we pretend to be doing something very new here in the Netherlands, because a lot of European countries preceded us on this point. Mr Schalk apparently still feared that companies might leave the country. With regard to women at the top of business, it is not the case that the Netherlands is the frontrunner in Europe. We're kind of in the back there, actually. A company that goes to another country in Europe finds itself in a situation where diversity at the top is much more common and already leads to a much more balanced situation. We are really dangling at the bottom of the European lists. Mr. Chairman. So I'm glad we're standing here with this bill. We have seen before that we do not come up with more binding measures. I would like to point out once again that today's debate is mainly about quota, but that the legislative proposal is much wider. I think it is important to stress once again that this bill is about a quota, about targets, but that, of course, there is still much more to be done to strengthen women's position in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u308	I hear the Minister say, as a result of the previous interruption of the SGP, that in other European countries you already find a more diverse administration, but as I pointed out in my first term, Dutch women work a lot part-time. I think there's a good deal to be done there before we start shooting a cannon at a mosquito and imposing such a huge compulsion package. In other countries, women simply work a lot more, so it's rather weedy that they also flow a little more to the top. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u309	Mrs Nanninga is right that Dutch women work part-time more than in other European countries. But it is not so that there would be too few women who would be suitable for these positions at the top. There are. But I fully agree with you that, in the package, I was just going to go into it and do more for a firm position for women in the labour market. Part-time work is a very important part-time work. I think it is very important that women can be economically and financially independent. So that means that you have to have enough income to be able to do so. You don't want women, when they're on their own, to have insufficient income and then to grow up children in poverty. So, yeah, less part-time work. The cabinet has also investigated this. How can we encourage women to work more hours? This requires a very diverse approach, for example with childcare arrangements. That's where we have scenarios lined up. I also hope that a next cabinet will take it quickly. But I also started working with a foundation like Het Potentieel Gakken, for example. We see, for example, that there are a lot of women working part-time in education and care, while at the same time there are shortages. Then you wonder: wouldn't women in those sectors be tempted to work more hours? If you go deep into that and you really ask women, then there are a lot of women who say: I would like to work more hours, but then there should also be thought with me about how that can be done. If this leads to a good conversation between employer and employee, we can see that you can achieve results there. We need to take this much wider. It is therefore better childcare, better child care arrangements, but also better care leave and parental leave arrangements, so that families can better share work and care at home. We are talking about equal pay and leave arrangements. It is also about better guidance for women with a distance from the labour market. We do this, for example, in the approach to low-literacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u310	I heard it's equal pay. Of course, that's what we're here for. However, it is striking that care and childcare are specifically mentioned in relation to helping women to work more. I always think that's such a funny thing in this kind of discussion, because men of course also have children and dependent parents. The fact that women work less because of children or needy people in their environment is linked to women. As a result, it can be explained that they work less, so there must be a quota for women at the top. It is, of course, very wrong that men do not look at it in this way, but that it is stated that these poor women are all part-time. I think it's always a choice and it's something you discuss with each other. So it's its own responsibility. There is therefore no need for quota.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u311	Here's what we're seeing. Here too, there is a symmetrical approach. If you want... I very much agree with you that care for children should preferably be an equal concern for both partners. As a cabinet, we have therefore also improved parental leave and birth leave for fathers. Thus it becomes more obvious that fathers take sufficient care in the first year. We also know that relationships often take place in the first year that children come. It also means that you have to look at reward, because at the kitchen table is also just looking at the financial picture. We have to explain to women that I am trying to do in emancipation policy too: when you are young, it may seem wise to choose part-time. But also understand that there will be a moment when you end up in a trap. You're not getting out of there because you're gonna experience loss. You're gonna miss training. You're missing a couple of hours. So it's en-and-and-and. That is why I am so convinced of this bill. In the last Business Monitor I got at this point, it also said: without law, no progress. Sometimes you need a bill. I think we're all gonna find that kind of quota of horse medicine. You wouldn't want to need it. I would also have preferred companies to have done this voluntarily. You need to show: if you are not working on those targets, we dare to take firm measures and then we will continue to do so. We hope this will be a crowbar in consciousness. You have to take targets seriously. Something must be done. In addition, the Board of Directors is appointed by the Supervisory Board. I believe that once you have a balanced relationship with that supervisory board, you will look at who is put on the board from a more diverse perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u312	Mrs. Nanninga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u313	I conclude that we differ on this point. I guess we're not gonna find each other there tonight either. I think that the equality in these positions should be largely based on women's commitment to work and not on compulsion at the top. I'm afraid we're not meeting there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u314	I understand women. If you go to work, you get 15% less than your male colleagues. Your partner gets a shitty extra week of paternity leave and if you have a minimum income, you go backwards and you can't afford the leave arrangements at all. So I hear the Minister say good things about what needs to be done with regard to childcare, the financing of childcare, equal pay, equal pay, the extension of parental leave and paternity leave, but I have not seen much of that. So I would very much like to hear what kind of recommendations she has for a real offensive plan to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u315	I didn't quite like the adjective you used to use in the entourage. I'd rather not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u316	Then we'll get that out of the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u317	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u318	Mr Janssen also asked about this and I think I can have a strong debate with him on this. I understand very well that Mrs Sent says: yes, I hear you say that, but I do not think it is enough. But steps have been taken. And yes, we can have a long discussion about whether that was enough. I agree with you that we are far from there. There's really more to be done. But inside what was possible... You also need to see what there is support for and how far you can get in a period of time. Looking at what has happened in the field of taxation and parental and birth leave, steps have indeed been taken during this period. There are scenarios ready for a really much better childcare scheme. Let the next cabinet work on this as soon as possible. I therefore agree with you that more needs to be done, but steps are being taken. I would be very sorry if we were to say in the debate on this bill: because not everything else is quite ready, we are not going to take this step. The better here should not become the enemy of good. So yes, it is on all fronts always seeing how far you can take the step. I am very pleased that, after many years of discussion, we have finally been able to find the basis for this measure, because it shows that we also have the courage to move forward if we really have to. But I very much agree with you: we are not here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u319	I hear a lot of measures that are actually a little outside of this bill, but are talking about how more women should go to work. Does the Minister agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that it is also possible to choose within families not to work and to give your care to your family, to your children? Do we have room for that too? That is the first question. The second question is the following. Just now, the Minister said that, in order to achieve all this, we are actually using this law as a crowbar. I think she used that word. But so far I've only heard the crowbar of the nullity of an appointment. Are there any other crowbars in there that we missed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u320	I agree with you that... We live happily in a country where it is a free choice. But as Minister of Emancipation, I also feel a responsibility to ensure that women are able to be financially independent. It has just been recalled that there are a lot of women who are going to be on their own. I also think that we have a responsibility to say: make sure that you can support your family. I am then worried about all those children in the Netherlands growing up in poverty. That's a lot of single mothers kids. That's just the reality, where it helps when women get to know from childhood that it's wise to be able to earn your own income and have the opportunity to do so. Of course, couples at the kitchen table can always decide freely how they do it at home, but we also have a responsibility to point out to people how important it is that you can provide your own income and, if necessary, that you can earn it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u321	Does the Minister mean to say that the moment you don't, you couldn't have been emancipated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u322	I think it's important, it's my belief, and I just suspect that you don't think it's beautiful when people realize: I have a choice to go through life on my own and earn my own income. We see very often that this is also necessary. It also adds to people's freedom when they know they have that choice. We all know a little too much nasty situations behind the front door at home, where women remain, despite violence, because they do not have the choice to go, because they are unable to earn their own income. Let's have an eye for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u323	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u324	Certainly, but let us not say of the people who make a different choice: you are not emancipated or anything like that. I would find that a very wonderful reasoning, because then emancipation would only fit people who have chosen the route indicated by the Minister. My second question had not yet been answered. That was like the crowbar was even wider than the nullity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u325	The crowbar that exists is that, after years of discussion, we simply dare to come up with, and with each other's support for, a legal obligation to appoint enough women to the Supervisory Board. It's been discussed for years. It has been said for many years that it should stick to targets, but we have now found broad support, both in society and in the House of Representatives, and I hope that later here in this House too, to show that we consider this important for society and that we are therefore prepared to enforce it by means of legislation. I am well aware that this is a heavy resource, but history has shown us that it is necessary. Otherwise, we will be working on this for decades to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u326	Twenty months ago, the House of Representatives adopted a motion by Jasper van Dijk and Van Weyenberg, with more than 80% of the votes, asking the Cabinet to come up with a plan of action, with an overall plan to improve the position of all women in the labour market. Twenty months later, I hear the Minister say: we have made scenarios and I hope that a next cabinet will do something with them. That is not what the House of Representatives said with more than 80% twenty months ago. I asked the Minister in the first term when this plan of action will come about, because we are delaying, we are delaying and we are delaying, but the situation is crying out for a solution so that we cannot wait and wait any longer. My question to the Minister is: when is the plan of action requested 20 months ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u327	I have honestly explained to you that a lot of measures have been worked on, but I have just said that you must always look at what we can find majorities for, both in society and in the Chamber and the Cabinet. We've looked very carefully at what you could do in child care. Measures have been taken in a number of areas. I have started working on how we can lead more women to the labour market in the area of low literacy. I have set up a number of programmes with the Ministry of Social Affairs to help women with a distance from the labour market. Is that all in one plan of action? No, that's not all in one plan of action, but it's all, one step at a time, parts that we've worked hard on. I understand your disappointment at that point. You and I were hoping we'd made it through. There have been a number of other things going on over the past year. We must try to take these steps together as quickly as possible, for example when it comes to child services. Those scenarios are ready. It's up to another cabinet to make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u328	No, it's not up to another cabinet. It is up to this cabinet, which was commissioned 20 months ago to come up with a plan of action. That didn't happen. The Minister indicates all kinds of loose parts which she has been very busy with. She is also to be praised for this, but that is not what the Chamber has said with more than 80% of its members. So my question to the Minister is when she can come up with a plan of action. Because if we have to wait for another cabinet... there's always a cabinet. There's also a cabinet now. Demissionary or not, but there's a cabinet. The mandate of the Chamber is still there and it does not expire with another cabinet, so what does the Minister want to do now with a plan of action as it has been asked? There has been no request for a ratchet of loose measures without consistency. So when can the Minister carry out the motion of the Chamber? Or does she say here: I find this motion of the House of Representatives so complicated, I am not going to carry it out? That is also a clear point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u329	No, I'm certainly not saying that last one. I thought this was a very important point myself. Let us take a broad look at what is actually one of the most important measures we need to take. That's really in the kid's facilities. This is about equal opportunities for children, but that also means something for women in the labour market. You also know that you can also see in the scenarios that are there. If you want to make a decision about that, that has far-reaching financial consequences. They are really too far-reaching for a outgoing cabinet to be able to make a decision. That is why we also said when we presented them: this decision is really up to a next cabinet, we cannot do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u330	Finally, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u331	The cabinet doesn't make that decision. You can make a proposal, you can make a plan of action, but Parliament takes those decisions and that is what this is about. You can say: "This is the plan of action. The funding has not yet been settled. There are these and these possibilities, but that is then up to the Chambers." That's something else. I can hear you shoving it away now. That has been happening for 20 months, and that is simply not what was requested by a majority of Parliament 20 months ago. I find it extremely regrettable that everyone is waiting for broad improvements in the labour market. It is not just at the top that something needs to be arranged. That's what needs to be done. I'm fine with that. We can support that, too. But not just at the top. The rest, too. You can't say, "We'll move the rest to a next cabinet. The people have been waiting for twenty months and they are only going to wait another ten or twenty months." I think it's really insufferable. My question will remain, also in my own contribution in the second term: in some form, when can this cabinet come up with a concrete plan of action? There will be many changes, but if there is a deadline of six or nine months, it is up to the next cabinet to do so. But there's got to be something. Then something has to come, because this cabinet doesn't stop running. You have now said, already in January: let a next cabinet do it. Then it should have come sooner, in the period when you were still missionary, from 3 December 2019, when this motion was adopted. I will repeat my second question. Let me leave it for a moment, but then we may return to it in the second term as a result of my second term. My question remains: when can the Minister come up with a concrete plan of action?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u332	Thank you. I suggest we finish this for now. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u333	Again, there's a lot in the Lower House. We also see just the far-reachingness of the scenarios. It will still be quite complicated to find majorities in parliament for one of those scenarios. Mr. Chairman. There was also Mr Van der Voort's question as to whether there are also grounds of principle for not imposing the same rules on companies and organisations not covered by this law, both in the private and in the public sector. I think Mr Dekker has already said something about this. It is also the exceptionalness of the quota. It is a very heavy instrument and it also requires a limited scope. We have therefore also chosen to really follow the line that the ESC has set out, because we think it is very important that the line we set out at this point is widely supported in society. In the ESC opinion, a quota was chosen for only the boards of directors of stock exchange companies, because this is really a very well-defined group. And we're also very capable of making sure that happens there. However, in line with the ESC opinion, we have said that you will also have to translate measures for the semi-public sector and the public sector. When we talk about these two sectors, we are talking about a whole bay of organisations and very diverse organisations. So that translation wasn't just made. That is why the Vinkenburg Advisory Group was set up. It has been asked to advise a high-level steering committee. That advice is now available from the beginning of this year. On the basis of this opinion, further work is now under way. How could you translate this into the semi-public sector and the public sector, so that a next cabinet can decide on this? So we're working on this. A report on this will, I think, appear next autumn, let me just say out of my mind. Work is therefore continuing on this. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Sent and others also said: yes, the bill is a good step, but you also have to do much more, including in companies. That is what has been said about it. That's what I agree with. We must not only promote diversity with the measures we take, but also an inclusive and safe working environment is important. I call a socially safe working environment, non-discrimination, a balanced work-care balance. Those things are all important for good employership. So we are also trying to improve the position of women in the labour market across the board; I have just said something about that. Furthermore, attention should be paid to the flow of women to top positions. Previously, the debate also referred to the UN Convention. In fact, the UN Convention says that a country must also take measures to promote this flow. In that context, Mrs Prast mentioned stereotyping which sometimes hinders this flow, for example when it comes to study choices. That's why we hang out with organisations like the School & Security Foundation when it comes to social security, but also with Atria, with WOMEN Inc. With these organizations, we're looking at how we can fight these stereotypes. And how can we have a debate on this, including in society? In the end, of course, it is up to employers to shape the culture in the company themselves, but it is good to give good examples, to encourage them and actually to give them a hand. A very nice example of "helping a hand" is still what the foundation Het Potentieel Suits has done to promote the good discussion on the workplace floor. It shouldn't just be about the top, it should be all over the workplace. Many questions have been asked about this and I think I have already said enough about it. Yeah, it's got to be about women at the top, but it's got to be about women at the bottom. I very much agree with that. I have also tried to explain to you what we are doing in this area. Mr Schalk asked for this too. I hope he will also support all the other measures we need to strengthen the position of women. Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked why so much attention to that position of women while there are so many other groups who also suffer discrimination in the labour market? Of course, she has a point. That discrimination is just there for some groups. We see age discrimination and we also see that people with a migration background are struggling on the labour market. And with that, too, we must proceed consistently. But again, you have to do that, but don't let the other one. We are now really at a time when we can take an important step in promoting gender diversity in business. This does not mean that we can sit back when it comes to those other forms of discrimination, such as discrimination in the labour market. For example, internship discrimination among young people with a non-Western background is still a major problem. So you must continue to work for that day in, day out to make sure that it disappears from the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u334	Could the Minister outline how many women will actually be affected by the bill that is now before us? Are we talking about 100 women, 250 women, 500 women who would actually benefit if that quota of a third was taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u335	The bill is about more than quota. Let's get this straight. I do not have the exact number in mind, but the quota concerns a very limited number of women. When we talk about the much broader agreements for the approximately 5,000 other companies involved in this bill, it is, of course, potentially a lot of women, because all these companies must set ambitious targets, not only for the summit, but also for the sub-top. If you want to do that as a company in a good way, you also have to go see who comes in and who flows through. So potentially, this bill is about a lot of women.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u336	That's why I'm a little misguided. There are such large target groups in society that are so disadvantaged in the labour market. Shouldn't the priority be much more on that than on a limited group? These targets are all very good, but in the end the ESC only has a controlling task and no possibility of imposing sanctions. Maybe the minister's gonna come up with that. I have also asked what is going to be done after the five years at the moment of evaluation, if it appears that these targets are still far behind the objective of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u337	That's a lot of questions at once. Because this target scheme is really broad, it is about a lot of companies and therefore large groups. In addition, the ESC's opinion also focused on cultural diversity. We also embrace that part of the advice. We agreed in the House of Representatives that we really embrace that whole SER advice, including in the area of cultural diversity. Mr Koolmees is working to see how we can make progress there. Steps are already being taken there. So we're looking really wider than that. If you repeat the ESC opinion, you will see that this is very broad. In addition, you are quite right, of course, that this opinion and this step will not solve all the issues relating to discrimination in the labour market. Then there's a lot more to be done. This is indeed about the position of older workers, about cultural diversity. That is, by the way, a more reckless problem to tackle, because it is not easy to work with targets. It concerns the position of Ihbti people in the labour market. And these are people with disabilities in the labour market, who are often also experiencing difficulties. As a result of my responsibility and in the mandate that was given, we are now taking this step with this bill. But, of course, in all these other areas, we must also continue to work. Mr. Chairman. Let me come back to cultural diversity, as Mrs Sent and Mr Van der Voort also had a question about this. I would like to confirm once again: yes, that diversity policy in a broad sense is really necessary. Three of the four commitments in the field of cultural diversity from the cabinet response to the SER report have been completed. There has been a Barometer Cultural Diversity, so companies can also see a bit how they actually do it at that point. The exploration of individual monitoring of the flow of talent to the top results in that this is already possible on a voluntary basis. The CBS has explored how to measure the flow to the top at sector level. So we are also trying to see how we can measure that, so that we have a bit of a barometer in society for how we stand, to take steps in that direction. There are still a number of explorations at this point, but we are also working on this broader diversity. Then there were questions about the availability of women. Are these women there and are they qualified enough? The problem, in my view, is not that there would be insufficient qualified women. The problem is that women who have so much quality are not accepted because they are women. They're not taken on their quality. That's actually the dilemma we have. I would like to say here that a quota does not mean that a woman gets a job for which she is not fit. That's bullshit. Feike Sijbesma explained to me how he dealt with this, because he was very busy with this in his company. He said: the moment you look for a woman, it can be said "we can't find them" or "they're not qualified enough." His morals were: then you go back, because then you have to look better. He said, "In the end, it always works." Where there's a will, there's a way. Let's not tell each other these women aren't here. We also have the database. Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked: aren't the women in there getting too easy? I'll paraphrase her question. It's not like women without experience can just sign in to that database. A number of criteria are laid down for that notification. You have to have administrative experience or experience as a senior manager in an organisation that is governed by the Governance and Supervision Act, i.e. the 5,000 largest companies or within a similar environment. You need to understand complex and large organizations. You must have experience in strategic decision-making processes. The Economic and Social Committee shall monitor the notifications in accordance with those criteria. If there is no information in the notification, the applicant shall be informed thereof and the applicant shall be given the opportunity to supplement it. A letter of recommendation may also be requested. For example, if the administrative experience of one of the criteria is not clear enough, a letter of recommendation will be considered. You have to be real, too. For everyone, there's a first time you're on a board of directors or a supervisory board. If you may not have all the administrative experience yet, you should have the chance to get it on. Then it might help to get a letter of recommendation from someone. But, of course, there is always a certain experience. That recommendation must come from a director or supervisor of a company covered by the Management and Supervision Act, which is therefore also able to assess whether this person is suitable for that purpose. If you don't meet the criteria, you won't be included. So it's not like anyone can just call in. There's quite a selection, but there's just 2,500 women in it. To anyone who thinks, "I can't find them," I'd say, please report to that database and see who's in there. Mrs Prast asked: is this not going to lead to more expats, to more women from abroad? The principle of the law is: more diversity in the field of men and women. We do not say: you must choose a Dutch woman. This legislative proposal does not cover nationality. By the way, when I look at the figures for the past year, the proportion of Dutch and foreign men and women is about in balance, so that happens equally. Then there were a number of questions about how this bill relates to the policy of lhbti-emancipation, if I may sum it up. Mr Dekker has already said a few things about this. This bill has opted for a binary approach, because it is necessary if you want to do something about women's disadvantage. In the area of gender equality, you sometimes have to make a distinction and sometimes not make a distinction. For example, it is often very relevant in healthcare that a distinction is made between caring for men and caring for women. We have even found that in the past too little has happened, which has really overlooked things. In other areas, you need to operate more gender-neutrally, but you always have to look at what is the best tool to achieve that desired diversity in society. Mr Dekker replied to the question as to how non-binary workers would be affected, so they could choose to be included and included in the under-represented sex. I believe that Mr Verkerk was concerned about whether I could explain this to the Ihbti community. That does not cost me any trouble, because it is precisely there that people understand very well that you need to take steps, step by step, for all those who are lagging behind. They also know very well that they are not forgotten. Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered all the questions that were on my plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u338	Thank you, Minister. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u339	Oh, no, I'm sorry. I'm missing a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u340	A word on the issue of non-binaries. Minister Dekker and this minister have just said that they can choose to join one of the two, but that is precisely what these people do not choose. So that means that we're all obviously saying: okay, you can also be non-binary, so you don't have to say whether you're husband or wife anymore, but in this situation it has to be. So I think that's very difficult, precisely because it's a vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u341	I'm glad you're paying so much attention to this group. By the way, if we go for 30% women and 30% men, we have 40% left where you can name all kinds of other people. So I do not think we have a very big problem here. But if they say "I don't want to register me either as a man or as a woman," then you can count them among the minority where the quota applies, because non-binaries are usually in the minority position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u342	We had just heard that answer from the other minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u343	I can hardly imagine that, because then you force them to make a choice they don't want to choose. Maybe they can choose half for both.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u344	I have the feeling that we are now repeating the discussion we have just had with Minister Dekker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u345	Yes. And I think that we are going to have a rather theoretical discussion. In a situation where a supervisory board has too few women and therefore the appointment of a man would be null and void, the appointment of a non-binary person is not null and void, because that is not a man.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u346	Please continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u347	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Prast and Mr Janssen had a question about the supervision of the ESC and asked why we did not opt for independent supervision. The whole approach is the result of an opinion we asked the ESC for. Following that advice, we have really chosen to stay as close as possible to that advice on all fronts, because that is what has been supported not only by employers and employees but also by the House of Representatives. This means that we have not opted for a controlling role of the ESC but for an advisory and stimulating role. The ESC will publish the targets per company annually on a public website. If a company doesn't do anything, the SER will encourage the company to do so, but everyone can see that that company hasn't delivered anything. I have to tell you quite frankly that my experience in recent years has been that, if you are going to call it very openly, something is actually moving. But we will also have to look at the evaluation to see if this works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u348	To clarify briefly: is the SER going to do naming-and-shaming or is the SER going to mention generalised, anonymized and accumulated data without a name? We know that, for example, from the Inspection Environment and Transport. It says: so many companies do not comply with the rules, but we do not tell which companies they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u349	No, this is where you'll really be able to see which company set the target. This must be an ambitious and appropriate target. And what has been done to achieve that? We are not going to publish general statistics, but it is really being made very transparent. And that's something I really believe can work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u350	So after my explanation, by company?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u351	Yes. So targets, results, plans to address those companies, make them transparent and publish on a public website. And that also helps shareholders who can then question them, and employees' organisations can start to question them. I can just imagine that journalists are interested in that. So we're gonna monitor that very publicly. Mrs Sent asked what problems we now see in the implementation of these regulations abroad. To stay close to home: Belgium, Germany, France and Italy have similar, symmetrical arrangements that are maintained with a sanction. The arrangements differ slightly in scope, in target rates, in the exact nature of the sanction, but we can see in other European countries that the arrangements are effective. The University of Groningen has carried out an evaluation of the Law governing and supervising legal persons, and has also looked at these experiences abroad. I am not aware of any other recent research that reveals bottlenecks, but we will simply look very closely at what we are running into and on which we need to improve. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I had two questions. One question was about what's going on with the Directive on women on company boards. I believe that Mr Dekker has said something about this. Well, how do I say that... There is actually a stand still, because there is a blocking minority, including the Netherlands. Certainly not because we are opposed to the content of the directive, but on the basis of subsidiarity, the Second and First Chambers have said that they really think this is a Dutch competence. And there are other countries that find the same thing, including Germany. So we agree with the objective, but we choose national instruments. And then I had the question about the Advisory Group Vinkenburg, but I have already answered that. Then I'm really out of answers, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u352	Thank you, Minister. Before we begin with the second term on the part of the Chamber, I shall suspend until 9 p.m. at the request of a number of political groups which need a short discussion for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u353	I give the floor to Mrs Karimi van GroenLinks before the start of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u354	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Ministers for their detailed answers. I believe that there is no discussion about the usefulness and necessity of this bill. I am pleased that Minister Van Engelshoven has made it very clear that discrimination and exclusion are the cause. As Minister Dekkers has also indicated, we see that there has not been sufficient progress in this area in recent years, which is also the reasoning behind this legislative proposal. So we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u355	Minister Dekker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u356	Sorry, Minister Dekker, without s. We also talked about the fact that if we make the supervisory board more diverse, the board of directors would also become more diverse. The Minister has promised that the evaluation will examine that assumption and that, should it prove that this is not the case, appropriate policies will be put in place. There is then a contradiction and a lack of consistency in the reasoning at the time when discrimination and exclusion are mentioned as causes and at the same time the measure is called a symmetrical measure. In an asymmetrical situation, the answer can never be a symmetrical measure. There's a contradiction in that. At the same time, I would like to take a pragmatic approach. The situation now is that 33% of the members of the Supervisory Board are women and so two thirds are men. 17% of companies do not have any women on the board at all. So in the next eight years in which this law will apply, I honestly do not see a situation in which a company would rely on a male quota. That means that we are actually talking about a women's quota here. It would help us if the Minister were to confirm this and appoint it as such, because that would be very enlightening for this debate. With this explanation, I am going to propose to my group that we vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u357	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mrs Sent of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mixed teams deliver better results. Only the ideal candidate is a clone. This is due to all kinds of deeply rooted prejudices. That's what we see coming back in how women's resumes are read. If you'd been abroad for a year, you'd probably have gone with your husband, but if your husband had been abroad for a year, he'd have worked on his résumé and his career. We see it in the way in which letters of recommendation are written. We see it in the fact that if the minority of applicants is female, the women are lower valued and if the majority of applicants are female, the jobs are lower appreciated. We talked about the prestige of the teacher in this debate. We also see it in experiments on the Harvard site. If you have to tap "woman and rational," you're a little bit longer than when you're calling "woman and emotional." And the other way around: when you type "man and emotionally," you're a little bit longer than when you type "man and rationally." So mixed teams, better results. The ideal candidate is a clone. Deep-rooted prejudices. That's got to be broken. That is why we are in favour of a women's quota. A quota is a heavy form of preferential treatment. There must therefore be a considerable deficit at the structural level. With that interpretation and in the light of my introduction, we support the introduction of a female quota. The present bill can be interpreted in several ways. Questions have been asked about the men's quota in relation to European law, in particular Article 157 (4) thereof, and in relation to the Court's case-law. We would like to have some comfort in the legal sustainability and legal relationship with European law and Court of Justice. That is the point of principle. Apart from that, the pragmatic point, as Mrs Karimi has pointed out, is that in the interpretation of my group, the horizon clause must be interpreted in such a way that it is not about symmetry, but explicitly to better represent women. With that interpretation and with that horizon clause, I can advise my group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal. Much is needed to address and improve the position of women in the labour market in general. I apologize for the force words I used for that, but I feel a lot of passion for that. I see a lot of possibilities there. Quality, prestige, finance, availability of childcare, opening hours public facilities, distribution of care tasks, extension of parental leave, paternity leave, it can be much more ambitious than it is now. Equal pay for men and women. I really think there should be a strong offensive on that. And then maybe I'll use the terms of strength that the chairman doesn't want me to use. Hence my passion to add this supplement to the debate and to point out that this bill solves one problem, but certainly not the whole problem. But as far as we are concerned, as Minister Van Engelshoven also pointed out, the better does not have to be the enemy of good. In conclusion. Loesje, the famous philosopher from Arnhem, said that children are the future if their mothers get one. We expect the legislative proposal before us to contribute to this. With the interpretation we have given of the horizon clause and symmetry, which, as far as we are concerned, is such that the legislative proposal is aimed at getting women better represented, I can advise my group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u359	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u360	Mr. Chairman. This bill looks like a product, the fallout of a small military activist quasi-feminist movement among policy makers. We do know what is good for the Dutch working woman and what the ambitions of the working woman in particular should be: full-time at work, preferably in a high position. Much reasoning from one's own experience. But that's not the real world. That real world is a world, also called the everyday reality, in which a lot of women, but certainly a lot of men, aspire to a part-time job. A job with less responsibility. Working to live instead of living to work. Enjoy the family, the children and perhaps the grandchildren. Mr. Chairman. The present bill ensures that not the qualities, skills and relevant conditions determine a position on the supervisory board, but whether you are a woman. Being a woman can never be a guarantee of a successful career. The Minister has also mentioned it at the top of the business world. There are, of course, other criteria for this. The government then comes up with compelling measures, which put pressure on listed companies in this case to appoint more women to the top of the company. But, Mr. Chairman, the government isn't moving fast enough. I have noticed for some time now, and not just on the basis of this bill, a government which unfortunately manifests itself with essentially counterproductive symbolism policy.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because the PVV Group considers this bill disproportionate and this bill does not do justice to both women and men who have ambitions that deviate from career tigers................................................................................................................................................... Unfortunately, therefore, the PVV Group cannot support this bill, in the interests of the many women and men who have ambitions, being a beautiful, fun, reasonably paid job, or an attractive, clear career, whether part-time or not, with a long-term view of a fine old age. The government's primary focus should be to encourage and facilitate, in particular, SMEs, the Netherlands' job engine. This serves and serves the whole of society. That is what society is doing, not promoting a rigid and decadent diversity ideology. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u361	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Mrs Prast waives her second term, so I give the floor to Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank both directors for answering the questions. I also note that the government delegation is setting a good example here, given their 50%-50% distribution. You could also say, and that for Mr Schalk: a binary division. In any case, I was pleased with the comments made by both leaders that they consider it important that there should be broad support for the legislative proposal. There is support for this, and we in the D66 Group believe that this is very important. The second point I was pleased about was Minister Dekker's remark that as a government you have a public task to perform. This is in line with what I have also indicated in other debates, namely that in my opinion it is a task of the government to create public value. I interpret his remark in the light of that. You can see that by bringing honesty into society as a government, you create public value. A detailed account of the symmetrical approach, now referred to as the diversity quota, has been given by the directors. This means that the male quota cannot be separated from the female quota. This also promotes diversity in a broad sense. The fact that no judgments have yet been delivered by the Court of Justice is thus the case. We will see in the future whether they will follow and whether this approach will therefore have a legal basis. I would like to thank the two directors for their commitment in the field of emancipation in recent years. I refer specifically to Minister Van Engelshoven because the appreciation we make as a D66 group of the results achieved by her efforts is different from that made by Mr Nanninga in the first term. These are questions relating to employment, social security, gender diversity and equal treatment. That is why I would like to conclude with the words of this Minister: emancipation is never finished, and we must stand up for that together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u363	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Then I give the floor to Mr Doornhof, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first term, on behalf of the CDA, I recognised the problem of women at the top of the business world. I have also stressed the value that my group generally attaches to the opinions of the ESC. Now I have to say this. My first professor in Leiden was Professor Hans Franken. He gave me the first class, Encyclopedia of Law. He was also a member of this Chamber. I can remember a statement from him: "In my voting behaviour, political opportunity sometimes goes beyond legality'. The question my group is now faced with is whether we are going to give Hans Franken an additional example with our own voting behaviour, because, as the Minister has perhaps become clear, let me say a little harshly, his answers as to the legality of this bill are not convincing. That's problematic. That is problematic because we are legislators here and the First Chamber is also supposed to be judged by law. It is also problematic because I have also pointed out in my first interruption towards the government that we do not therefore see the risks of an unexpected case in which a regulation is declared unlawful, in this case that quota. So that is problematic and that makes it a difficult consideration. I also understand from the government that the European Commission's proposal, which I pointed out, to opt for a directive based on the principle of equal suitability, which is always required by the Court of Justice, does not go far enough. For the sake of fairness, I must also say that this is not, of course, the ESC opinion either. In short and well, I will take it back to my group and we will finally see to what extent we see another example of Professor Franken coming along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u365	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. The correct quote was, I thought, "Members of the First Chamber sometimes choose," according to former colleague Hans Franken, "for a position in which political opportunity outweighs scientific rationality." That, of course, comes close to the quote as you put it. Franken was not only a member, but even Vice-President of this Chamber, albeit the second Vice-President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u366	He taught me right away that both law and religion is a scholarship and not a science. So there is also a semantic discussion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u367	It is now time to give the floor to Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse, who will speak on behalf of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u368	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank both ministers for their comprehensive response. The VVD Group believes that a balanced gender distribution in supervisory boards is a good example, which also contributes to a safe working environment in a company. For the purpose of the law, the VVD Group in the First Chamber agrees. Our group has doubts about legality. I will have to talk to my group about whether the ministers' answers have convinced us. Mr Karimi's proposal is, in that sense, a creative solution. It says that this is a de facto female quota. That would take away the legal bump. Another creative solution, which is indeed used more often in this Chamber, is the solution we have just heard from former colleague Franken. The answer to the question of why companies would now set targets has convinced the VVD Group. That's because the basis for support in society is now there. Companies have spoken out through the ESC and committed themselves to doing so. That reply reassured the VVD Group. I wanted to end with Minister Van Engelshoven's ruling. I really liked that pronunciation. This one sums it up well, namely: "We have to do one thing and not leave the other." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u369	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. I now give the floor to Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u370	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I should like to point out that I was impressed by the contributions of some of my female colleagues who, from their hearts, argued against discrimination against women. I didn't care. I was also impressed by some comments made by Minister Van Engelshoven on the need for emancipation in relation to inequality and child poverty. Because child poverty is, let us be honest, one of the most unacceptable problems of this society. I would like to thank the ministers for their reply. At the heart of the question is: is it about a male or female quota, a preferential treatment for men or women, or is it about symmetry or diversity? I understand the change of meaning. I also understand that there are arguments for this. If I read the pieces correctly, it's about men and women. I should like to quote from the explanatory memorandum on the 'under-represented sex'. Nor does the word "symmetry" appear in the explanatory memorandum. When the pleading speaks of "diversity," it is always about men and women. If I look at the totality of the argumentation, the note on the report and how the Labour Party's arguments are being responded to, I must honestly say that the emancipation of women is the horizon of this legislation. It would be a good thing for us if the ministers here were simply to say that explicitly. For our group, the question remains whether it is legitimate. I must honestly say that we are not really convinced by the Minister's answers to my questions about the influence of the time frame. If the EU Court of Justice does not give a ruling on this matter for 20 years, one can say: it seems that society did not want to go to the Court of Justice. You can also say that these statements are very clear and that is why the Court of Justice is going to go, or there is another reason why we are not going that way. In my heart I think: I wish the Minister had given even better arguments and helped us to get over that bump. As a group, we like to be convinced. And yet, I must say quite frankly that this has not yet been fully achieved in terms of legality. It is significant to me that the Joke Smit Foundation has just responded to the note on the basis of the report. The foundation said incredibly sharp: no, it can't be. The arguments I have heard from the Minister were, understandably, the same arguments as in the note on the report. The foundation says, "Don't do it." Mr. Chairman. I can only say here that I will discuss the arguments in the group. Many members of the political groups are watching. Next week we will see what this means and how our group is going to vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u371	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I now give the floor to Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u372	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, of course, to both ministers for answering the questions and to colleagues for the debate. I have a bit of a feeling that we have come into a somewhat confusing discussion about a female quota, a male quota, a symmetrical approach and the creative solution that Mrs Karimi has come up with after a few written rounds and after this debate. It would be very strange if suddenly a choice would be made which in any case has no basis in the law as it stands. But I wonder if both ministers will be able to comment on that in a moment. Minister Van Engelshoven also thanked me for my special attention to the people who are non-binary. I would like to thank you, of course, for that compliment, but I also hope that she will feel that we are making it particularly difficult for these groups of people on this type of legislative proposal. Maybe we'll end up in impossible situations. I hope that was understood from my words and if not, I will be glad to hear it from the Minister. The debate also continued. I admit it was a trip, Mr. Chairman. Part of it was about emancipation and its future. To be honest, I felt that the debate on the interpretation of emancipation was very much linked to financial autonomy. I would like to call on the Minister to think again about this and let that be a broader concept. I was thinking of a personal situation. I have two daughters. In fact, I have three, and two sons. Anyway, let me take two daughters as an example. One daughter of mine has a family with five children. She's doing a lot of stuff. The other daughter doesn't have children yet. She's a team leader at a school. Which one of them is the most emancipated? Are we gonna measure that on the salary they have? Are we going to measure that by their financial independence? I would very much like to hear from the Minister that there are a lot of other elements to do with the important issue of emancipation. I have another question to the Minister of the Right... of everything and everything, to Minister Dekker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u373	From Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had just given up the floor: the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u375	For legal protection. Of course, I don't want to interrupt the chairman, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u376	I'd like to give you a chance to make corrections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u377	This is all going from my time, but I think it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u378	Don't bother yourself. Go ahead. The clock's ticking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u379	We talked about a difficult problem with each other for a moment. That was the nullity that can be invoked. I am not quite sure what its legal validity and legal effects are. Perhaps the Minister would like to make a final attempt by pointing out what the consequences will ultimately be and by simply saying it honestly to each other if it is a paper reality. So be it. Finally, the law was also called a crowbar. The legislator sets the quota as a crowbar. This bill could just be adopted, but I also understand that it can be over in eight years' time. But we'll see how that goes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u380	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Nanninga on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although I too would like to thank the Ministers for their reply, the situation under the line has actually only got worse. We have heard the Demissionary Minister for Legal Protection in an interrupting debate with Van Kesteren say that even if a man is more suitable, a company must appoint a woman if they are to come under the quota. Then we heard the Minister say that a decision taken by a wrongly composed board of Commissioners is a wrong decision. An appointment is therefore wrong, so a decision is wrong, if not all involved have the correct contents of their underwear. Mr. Chairman. I say this on purpose, a little plastic, to underline the basics: sex, which should not matter. The outgoing Minister of Emancipation did agree with me that women themselves could do much more in terms of employment participation, but promptly mentioned rather role-affirming reasons for lagging behind in this employment rate, such as children and care care. She also did not shy away from describing terms such as "crowd iron" and "horse metal" to describe this bill. In reply to Mrs Sent, she said that of course we should not wait until all the other options are properly in place before a legal quota is introduced. I'm glad the minister isn't a doctor, otherwise, when I had a headache, I didn't get an aspirin first, but just anesthesia right away. There is extensive intervention in the management of companies, in the freedom of people and organisations, to solve a non-problem. Because let's face it: of course, no one should be disadvantaged or opposed to their gender, orientation, skin color and all those kinds of categories. Discrimination is absolutely out of the question. But how did this beautiful and true principle ever lead to diversity as an end in itself? Mr. Chairman. This whole discussion is taking place under the premise that diversity is an objective, but it is a constructed reality, an imposed bandwidth in the debate. It also has nothing to do with equality of opportunity, for it is there, but it has to do with equal outcomes forced to the delusion of the day. Diversity is not an end in itself as far as our group is concerned! We assume the power and capacity of the individual and it would be our real sausage whether our dentist, popular representative, ticket inspector, garbage man is a man or a woman, white or black, Catholic or Jewish. If he or she is the best choice for that job, then it seems to me that all the criteria for a functioning and cheerful society have been met, and we are naturally tackling real discrimination hard. I'm sure the intention of this law will be good. There's nothing strange about that, but the effect is disastrous. No woman will be in certain positions in the future without doubting her abilities. Is it really a top woman, or is it an excuse trick? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u382	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Finally, during this period, I give the floor to Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u383	Thank you, Mr President. The cabinet thinks it's legal. We have often seen in legislative proposals that advisers say 'it is impossible' and that the cabinet says 'we think it is possible'. We are going to see that in the future, but it is a lot of turns. It's not about a female quota, even though the criterion is being a woman. It's not about a male quota, even though the criterion is being a man. But it's about a diversity quota. The judge will break up with you. What I thought was a little careless and about which some misunderstanding arose in the discussion, including with Mr Schalk, is that Mr Schalk was talking about invoking nullity. But it's not about invoking nullity. Surely we agree that it is null and void and not destructive? I think there's been a misunderstanding. We are talking about Article 14 (1) and not Article 15. In my view, it is good to say once again that it is only a question of knowing what is to be done, if necessary, with regard to the follow-up decisions. That is a different matter from the one that should be relied upon as a nullity in relation to the decision itself. Perhaps the Minister could put an end to this somewhat overlapping discussion, because it gives the impression of annihilation, which I do not think it is. You can't leave that to chance. That seemed to the Minister to say a bit, in the vein of: yes, there is someone who stands out and can go to the judge and so on. But we don't have a watchdog for listed companies for nothing, do we? He should notice that. And we also have the accountant, don't we? Does the Minister agree with me that the auditor cannot give an affirmative statement if there has been a void appointment? In any case, that should be the time when it should be recorded and it should be ready, because then something will simply be established. The Minister's coincidence bothers me, so he says that someone will notice and he can go to court. I find that complicated. It is a strange construction as it is: it goes well as long as no rooster crows. That cannot be the case here. Then about the plan of action. We talked about it before. There is a motion from 2019 that is simply not being carried out. It's as simple as that. There's not gonna be a plan of action. The Minister says: it is complicated, because, for example, child provision costs a lot of money and there may be no support in the Chamber. We haven't been presented, so I don't know what the Minister is basing it on. I note, however, that the 2019 motion specifically referred to child provision as part of the integrated approach. So if the Minister now says "that costs a lot of money, so there is no support for it," I ask her to check again how many MPs voted for it: VVD, CDA, D66, GroenLinks, SP, PvdA, ChristenUnion, 50PLUS, Party for Animals, DENK and Van Kooten-Arises. More than 80% were in favour of an integrated approach, including child services, 20 months ago. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I note that within ten months, the cabinet is going to arrange something for the group of women who are going to join the boardroom at the conference table, but not for the numerous women who know the boardroom only because they clean it. Their inequality in the labour market is not addressed by the cabinet and they are being put on hold even longer because the necessary comprehensive plan of action, which more than 80% of the House of Representatives asked for twenty months ago, remains unfulfilled. I conclude with those words of disappointment and sadness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u384	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Ministers, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? Do I have to interpret that as a yes? That's the case. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we've had a good debate. At the end of the debate, Members, the political groups, of course, draw their conclusions. I think we've talked a lot about legality. I also have real understanding and respect for the need of a number of groups to get more certainty on that. At the same time, I do not think 100% certainty is possible. The cabinet believes that this is how it fits legally. I have tried to convince you of this, even through the written round. I can only hope that has been enough. Mr. Chairman. Much of this discussion is actually a goal-based discussion. Let us make no mistake that the aim of this law is to ensure more diversity and to repair or restore the remaining position of women in it. The means we choose is a diversity quota. I call it a diversity quota. Of course, I can't change the idea of symmetrical. I heard Mrs Karimi and a number of others say in their contribution: look how it works in practice. I fully agree with Mrs Karimi when I see where it's pinching now. If we were to take a picture of what companies it would affect today and whether there is a shortage of women or a shortage of men on the supervisory board, we would see that they are all in the first category. That doesn't make the instrument any different. That instrument is and will remain so. Nor can I suddenly call it a women's quota, because it is a diversity quota. But in practice, of course, this works in the way Mrs Karimi points out. In theory, it could also work in a different way. Anyway, we're gonna see if that's relevant later. However, I think it is important that we also emphasise to the outside world that if we are to achieve diversity, diversity is across the board. This is more about the point of justification. So it should not just be a matter of catching up with women's representatives on supervisory boards. After all, it would also be crazy for a supervisory board to be made up of only women in a manner of speaking. I think that is a fundamental point which I think is also a good thing that we should use this instrument. And I say again: I said what I said about legal sustainability. Mr. Chairman. This is actually the main conclusion of the debate on our part. I have two more questions on the screen. They have to do with the insignificant appointments. Mr Janssen is absolutely right: that is a chapter that we know of course. In my view, I myself caused some confusion in the first period. It's a way of working that we already know from the current law of supervision and administration, or what's the name of that law again? Give me a hand. Mrs. De Blécourt came running with it. The Board of Directors and Supervision Act, that's him. For example, it contains the limitation rules, for example on how many places you need to have on boards of directors. Then if you go over that, that next appointment will also be null and void. This means that many of the two questions that have been raised are also dealt with under that regime. So there's just experience with that. For the answer to the question of quorum, this means that a null and void appointment does not affect the validity of the decisions taken. Therefore, should there be a late appointment, even if the quorum had not been met, it would remain that this would have no effect on the validity of the decision taken. The same applies to the point raised by Mrs Baay-Timmerman. That's more about liability. As I said, the threshold for joint and several liability is, of course, quite high. However, in the exceptional situation that there would be an act of tort, by the Commissioner in question, it could be held personally liable, even in the case of a misappointed Commissioner. This also applies in the same way in the current Governance and Supervision Act. I'm out of answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u386	Thank you, Minister. I now give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. Mr Verkerk still wants to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u387	Mr President, I would like to try again with the Minister. I read the explanatory statement. It always talks about men and women. I don't see the word "symmetry." I understand the Minister is explaining it this way. I've always learned that when you look at legal texts, you have to be really sharp. I'm just noticing that we don't run into that word "symmetry." I understand what the Minister is saying: it would be crazy if we had supervisory boards in the future without men. I'd think that was crazy, too. I would like to say a few words to Mr Karimi: even if it is about female leadership. But all the examples given by the Minister in the note on the report relate to the backwardness of women. Nowhere does he argue anything that pertains to men. So I keep wondering whether it would not be much more honest if the Minister would just say here: 'The problem is the backwardness of women, which we have wanted to raise, and so to speak we find it unfortunate that we have also included a backlog of men in the explanatory memorandum and in all the pleadings of reply'. Men's disadvantage may well occur, but there is no reason to assume it at the moment, nor is there any argument that relates to men.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u388	The reason is obvious. I think I just said that in the direction of Mrs Karimi. It is a lack of diversity due to a shortage of women. That's the reason. We have chosen to eliminate that with what I call a symmetrical quota. We say: if we look at gender distribution, we assume at least 30% women and 30% men. That is the instrument we choose. I can't just turn that away or go away. I think it will have its effect in practice and its effect on women's backwardness. But there was a more fundamental question in the debate that we had in detail in the first term: whether the fact that the cabinet chose in its proposal not only to say 'at least as many women' but to speak of a balance instrument, 'at least as many women and at least as many men', would be legitimate. We think it fits and it can. I think that's the question that's on the table here. That is a different question than how it will work out in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u389	I can only say that I remain somewhat unhappy with your words 'we think it is possible', because the words'symmetry' and 'balance', as far as I know, do not appear in this way, at least not in the judgments of the Court of Justice of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u390	Just a brief word on that lousy appointment. I asked the Minister if he saw a role for the supervisor on the listed companies, since this is about following laws and rules, which also listed companies must comply with in relation to commissioner appointments. That is the first question. The second question is whether the Minister agrees with me that there can never be an auditor's approval at the time when there has been a null and void appointment of the supervisory board.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u391	Depends. The nullity is automatic. There is not only a task for the supervisor. It's a matter of law. The question is whether the case will arise and if it arises, the question is what its consequences are for the decisions taken by the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u392	No, that wasn't an answer to my question. My question was very specific whether the minister sees an active role for the supervisor rather than leaving it to chance if someone says: 'Well, let me take action, because I read in the newspaper that a Commissioner has been appointed and I do not think that is right'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u393	The supervisor... anyone can point that out to the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u394	I'm not asking if anyone can do it. I'm asking if there's an active role for the supervisor in this. That's my question. That can simply be answered yes or no. When the minister says, "Well, no, I don't see a role for the supervisor," I find that strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u395	Of course, also the supervisor, other... I am looking a bit for the point where Mr Janssen wants to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u396	No, no. I would just like to ask the other Members not to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u397	When you say, "Do you see a part?" Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u398	Sorry, Minister. I would like to ask the other Members not to come from the Chamber and not to give their consent... so that the people at home can no longer follow the debate. There is now a discussion between the Minister and Mr Janssen. I give the opportunity to continue this discussion. I would ask the other Members not to interfere until I give them the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u399	Thank you. I heard the Minister say last through you: yes, I see an active role for the supervisor to see to it and that it is not just a coincidence. The fact that everyone else can do it is true, but I am concerned that there is an active role for the supervisor. Maybe the Minister can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u400	Yeah, for the supervisor, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u401	There's that part. And then my second question is: does the Minister agree that if there is a void appointment of an IPR, an accountant can never give an affirmative statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u402	I do not dare to go into that immediately, because I also said that you can correct a void appointment. It happens. Then you can correct it. The question then arises as to whether that would result in a failure to approve the annual accounts by an auditor. That is, of course, a very far-reaching step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u403	But that means that an unadjusted appointment cannot be accompanied by an approval declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u404	The question is whether it has not been corrected. The question is how long it took. Let's say there's been a small appointment for a week and that's been restored. Is the sanction that should be attached to it an unapproved annual accounts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u405	No, then the Minister didn't hear my last question. My question is: if it is not corrected, then there can be no explanation of vote. The minister says: maybe, because it's all theory and it never happens. Laws and rules are precisely there to provide for what we usually don't think: well, that will happen a lot. But if it does, the problems and consequences are often greatest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u406	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u407	Thank you, Mr President. Oh, you're using those buttons here. Sorry, I did it myself. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps in abundance, because Mr Dekker has actually said it, but as Minister for Emancipation I am committed to confirming it here. Mr Verkerk asked: what is the horizon of this bill, what is the goal that we want to achieve? Of course, this is about the emancipation of women. I think Mrs Karimi is right that, if you look at the horizon of the bill, I cannot say it with 100% certainty, but I do think 99% of women will be appointed. Let's also say that symmetry is nothing new. It was already in the law when we had the Law targets. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask a further question, which is in the direction of Mr Schalk. It's not up to me to take the measure of individuals: how emancipated are you? I am never going to do that; that is not what emancipation policy is meant for, and we should not want to do that with each other. My task is to see where social challenges lie, when it comes to emancipation. If we have public values with each other, as Mr Van der Voort said, where should we promote them? We see that poverty in the Netherlands still has the face of a woman. That is why I approach this economic and financial autonomy so much. I think that is a big social issue that we need to solve together. If more women are able to earn their own bread, that helps. That's a great motivation for me to do that. In addition, even if you look at the future, we see that we have a lot of untapped labour potential. We leave a lot of women's talent behind. We are failing these women and we are failing society too, because our society would be much more beautiful if we were to make full use of all these talents. This is without prejudice to what individual choice people make. But if people in a family choose whether someone is going to work or stay at home, then I would love it very much that that is not always self-evident. Let's talk about that, too. Of course, men and women or a couple with two men or two women are free to know how they divide the positions at home and the work. But let's get off the stereotype that it's always a woman who takes care of more than the man at home. I hope you agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u408	That last one, I didn't mention it at all. That is a new element that is now being introduced. I have tried to make it clear that, at the moment that we would focus emancipation entirely on the economic and financial autonomy of individuals, you are failing a number of people and a number of elements. So stick to poverty, but don't say: that's the motive for emancipation. I have a question about that, too. The Minister now mentions in a clause: there is a great deal of untapped labour potential. I have mentioned two examples. Is my one daughter now untapped labour because she doesn't get an income that could make her independent? I would very much like to share that with you, because we have to get rid of people who make that choice as 'unsatisfied labour resources'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u409	Mr Schalk is trying to tempt me to make a judgment about individuals who make choices. I'm not gonna do that. As a cabinet, you face a number of societal challenges. We can see that we still have a lot to gain in society if more women are economically and financially independent. We also see, especially when we look at the prognosis for the future, that we need labour very badly, that there are many women well and highly educated and that they are currently not fully developing and deploying their talents. That's what I'm committed to. I believe that emancipation policy is also intended for this purpose. But that is without prejudice, fortunately, we live in a country where individuals can always make their own choices. I'm not gonna judge that. Only, I'll look at the social challenges that lie ahead. I've got a job to do, and I'm filling it out like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u410	But the moment you link that to unexploited labour resources, and now in this next session also to talent that is not fully exploited, I wonder: who are we to judge? Just leave that choice to people themselves and don't link it to whether or not you have to go into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u411	This is what Mr Schalk and I are not going to agree on, I think. In this country we have a lot of women who are well educated, fortunately more and more, who can make a major contribution to prosperity and well-being in the Netherlands. In the end, it's always their own individual choice of how they do it, but at macro level, I can see that this leaves a lot of talent unused, that we have shortages in the labour market and that we can improve organisations in many places if they become more diverse. We have a problem with each other, but that is without prejudice to the fact that they are individual choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u412	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u413	At least I want to stick to the latter: individual choices where people do not leave their talents unused, but choose how they use those talents. By the way, my two daughters have been in the same training.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u414	Let's just leave it at that. Finally, I would like to make one final point which I should like to make. Mrs Nanninga said it must continue to be about quality. Of course, it is always about quality when naming people on functions. The problem is that a lot of women with quality are not appointed because they are women. Yeah, it's always about quality. Those women with many qualities are there, but the problem is that many women are not appointed, precisely because they are women. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u415	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-14-eerstekamer-5.u416	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that the legislative proposal be voted on on 28 September. Then we have come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, the Ministers and the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll wish you home.
