ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget for Health, Welfare and Sport, the first term of office. I welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport and the Secretary of State, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u2	I would like to meet with Members: eight questions and/or comments to the directors. That's a bit more than usual, but if you keep it short and powerful, everyone gets enough room. Since we are discussing another budget this evening, namely that of the Home Office, the aim is to be ready by 8:00 and then to have dinner break. So you can take that into account. I see Mrs. Hijink and Mrs. Agema at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u3	I would like to begin with a point of order. I understand that at a conference that is now being held by the boss of the Dutch Healthcare Authority, Mrs Kaljou, it has been said that more emergency services will have to be closed in the coming years and that 50% of the care now provided in hospitals will have to be delivered less. During this debate, I would like a response from the Minister as to whether this is also the policy of the cabinet and whether the cabinet also thinks it wise to use this kind of threatening language, just when we want more people to work in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u4	It seems to me right that the Minister should return to that in his contribution. Mrs. Agema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u5	It's standing policy, it's on page 321 of the budget. It is of course a thorn in the eye, which I also discussed extensively last Tuesday. So all the support for that request. On Tuesday, Mr President, you also said that we should keep it limited and then suddenly, in ten words, you put a line through it. So I would like to make a more concrete appointment with you about how many word messages we are allowed to make, otherwise you will be busy and then a line goes through. So I would suggest that we have 15 word messages.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u6	I would like to make the appointment with you, as is the agreement we have made for the other budgets, to take up a maximum of eight questions and/or comments. If they are short and concise, we can then look in the course of the debate, but let us stick to eight questions and/or comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u7	We are already doing a lot more in a three-hour committee debate; we already have nine of them there. So I really think eight is far too little. I would like to propose that we do 15, also in view of the current situation. I'd like to hear my colleagues on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u8	Unfortunately, I cannot meet that, because we have 21 groups/groups. As we have also agreed for the other debates, I propose that eight questions and/or comments should be taken into account. Perhaps it would be helpful if I could suspend the sitting for a moment and ask colleagues to join me. If the Minister wishes to wait, I will suspend the meeting for a single moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u9	I would like to thank Members for their constructive consideration of how we can manage this. The agreement is now ten questions and/or comments, but with the agreement that members have a short input without very long introductions. I would also appeal to the Cabinet to answer the questions that have been asked as concretely as possible, and I would just like to translate the opinion of the Chamber so that we do not provoke them either, otherwise we will get no such thing. Then we're really gonna get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u10	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I have heard your encouragement as to the extent of the speaking time. I also think that the way in which I have provided the answer is actually a good way to respond to that, because I do not have very much general introduction. I will explain how I have dealt with my speaking time. First of all, of course, we replied in writing to 181 questions from Tuesday. Then 1,116 written questions have already been asked and all have been answered. So most of the questions have just been answered. But a number of questions require real debate. I've arranged that as follows. First of all, the issue of sustainable care, care for the future. We'll make that fit for the future. I would like to take this opportunity to comment on the questions you raised in that context about care for the elderly, about acute care, and perhaps I can respond to the point that Mr Hijink has just made and on the exchange of information. Then a second block, which is about working in the care, including the theme of control and including the theme of control pressure. The third subject can be brief, because we will of course have a debate next week on corona. However, I think that a number of issues need to be addressed here too. That is corona, somewhat the current situation but as short as possible, with dilemmas that we are dealing with, which Mr Van der Staaij, among others, pointed out to me. And the pandemic preparedness Mrs De Vries pointed out to me. Then, under the subject of varia, I would like to ask questions about the annual report on social responsibility, about the zoonoses approach, about financial management in the VWS budget and about the Wob. Finally, I would like to look at all the amendments and give them an opinion. Then Mr Blokhuis will pass. I want to try to do my time for lunch. Then we keep the pace in order to be ready with the second term for dinner break as well. I see people...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u12	It takes two to tango; let's put it this way. It won't be me! Then Mr Blokhuis will deal with the questions on his portfolio: prevention, social care, mental health, ggz and disability care. I would like to make a few more points in this introduction; then we will move on to the first block of sustainable care. Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me point out that this budget debate is taking place under very strong conditions, namely with a outgoing cabinet, for a very long time, but with a Chamber that has long been no longer new, at most in a new composition compared to the previous budgetary discussions, but is no longer new and full of charge to get to work. That's stressful. There's no other way. This will sometimes bring with it something uncomfortable in discussions in which the Chamber might perhaps wish to take decisions tomorrow, which may sometimes be very far-reaching, while, of course, in a missionary phase, I shall have to react even more, let us hope that the end of that missionary phase will also have to respond with some restraint. We just have to relate to that. There is little concern about this reality, but we have to relate to that reality. I just mentioned that the Chamber is in a whole new composition, so the cabinet is in the same composition, but not quite, because there are two of us here, and I do not want to leave that point unnamed either. What did we like to be here with the three of us, with colleague Van Ark. Let's wish her well from here on, too, and hope she feels better soon. Mr. Chairman. "All care is personal," said Mrs Agema, and that was also very noticeable in all the stories you brought here on Tuesday. In all these stories sounded because of what is also the care story, of either the whole real personal experience, or the experience with own children, with their own parents, with their own family members. You notice so much in people who are engaged in the policy sense in the care that also always has one's own, personal story. I notice that all the time with us at the VWS Ministry. More than average are people who have a child in their own care, have parents in their own care and also have those care stories counted. That personal story, that moving story you told, helps to bring policy back to the human dimension of things, because it shows that care is human work and that caregivers can make the difference in people's lives, of us. So I also agree with all the gratitude that has been expressed and with all the compliments to staff in the care that many of your MPs have said. Our people in care are doing a great job and we can always lean on them, but we may have been able to do that a lot in the last corona crisis. They've kept themselves incredibly impressive, no matter how hard it is. All these different stories covered a very rich range of topics. This shows how broad and rich the domain of care is. It also shows the importance of wanting to take meaningful steps on all these fronts. I can actually deal with a selection of all these issues today. But one subject really jumped out of there, and that is the subject of sustainability of care. One could say: it is something new that has been so pregnant in all the contributions, and so pregnantly expressed by all the groups. It can only be that we will have to take firm steps in the coming years. Because if we don't, then care isn't fit for the future. Mrs Ellemeet was critical. He asked: but shouldn't we have talked about this much more often in recent years, and haven't we done too little in that respect? When you look back at the coalition agreement four years ago, you don't see a huge reform mission in it, but I think that was widely shared, really wider than the coalition parties alone. That was perhaps also nice after the enormous decentralisations we had just had, and they just had to land in a good way. Two. Two years ago, we discussed the sustainability of care intensively in the budget discussions. Perhaps that was not so concrete in terms of what steps we had to take, but it was agreed in preparation at the time that that note should be taken Care for the Future. In this way, we have taken steps at that time, in preparation for decision-making, which affect the future. But then came the corona crisis, which has put the whole thing somewhat on the pause button. We need to let go of that pause button, because we need to take steps towards the future. That brings me to the first block, the theme of sustainability for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u13	Before you start, I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u14	I can already hear the Minister say that, according to all parties, something must be done about sustainability. I have argued in detail about this. The forecasts of healthcare costs are quite different from actual expenditure, but that is one thing. I would like to ask the Minister if he may have been under a rock for the last year and a half. He was the minister in this gigantic crisis, and in the situation we were in just before the crisis. On average, we have half less ice beds than any other country in Europe. Five hospitals were closed, nineteen ICUs and sixteen emergency rooms. Almost 914 ic nurses have been expelled since 2014. We still have this crisis on our hands every day, and that is why the Minister intends to take even more action in the coming week to combat it. But he hasn't started investing in intensive care yet, and you name it. And what's the Minister gonna say now? That something needs to happen in the future for sustainability. I would say to the Minister: get out from under the stone and see that at this moment in Ter Apel 1,200 people walk into our country a week. They cost around EUR 34 billion a year, some EUR 100 billion in three years' time. That's more than the whole healthcare budget. Shouldn't he even have a good conversation with Ankie Broekers-Knol, saying that it's ready, that care should be paid, that salaries should be paid, that intensive care should be paid and that he needs hospitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u15	That is a lot of subjects in Mrs Agema's introductory shelling. Let us indeed leave the migration budget and the steps on migration to another committee and another member of the cabinet. Then let us focus on care. In addition, we can say to each other that we are now happy to live in a country in which we have the opportunity to spend EUR 100 billion in care, and in which we can afford to have one in seven people in care at the moment, one in seven people is available on the labour market to provide loving care every day. I think everyone agrees with me that if you could choose a country in the world in which you like to receive care at the time you are sick, that would really be the Netherlands. If we want to keep it that way, we have a lot of work to do. I would like to comment on this later, because many Members of the House have expressed their concern about it. That's what I'm sharing. If we want to keep that, namely that care is there for us, even if we need much more care with each other, just because we're getting older. It's also wonderful that we're getting older. We know that the labour market has a limit. You can't let one in four people work in care. That's what you said. I agree. If you don't want all that, then you will indeed have to move towards the future. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u16	We do not spend EUR 100 billion on care. The most recent financial statements on money actually spent, that of 2021, contain EUR 76 billion. Then the Minister can come up with all kinds of things, such as childcare and so on, but they are not on our budget that we are discussing here today. I don't know why I have to explain to the Minister after four years that he shouldn't count things that aren't on our budget. His last annual statement, the one about 2021, about what the care actually cost, says 76 billion. I just wanted to make that point. I do not understand why the US Secretary of State, who is also the Corona Minister at the moment, does not stand up for the concern. Care has been brought to the abyss in the years before the crisis. It has been brought to the abyss in such a way that we have less than half of ic-beds than the European average. We have so little capacity that while there are now about 200 people on the ice with corona, this minister is going to take decisions next weekend on additional restrictions on freedom. Our hospital care is going so badly that the volume growth limit of 0% next year still applies. There's no money reserved for catching up yet. The current policy, which will have to remove another 50% of hospitals in the next ten years, is still standing. How can the Minister say that mass immigration is another area and I don't want anything with it? We are being flooded and all these people also need a house and become a care consumer. It's just gonna cost a hell of a lot of money. In three years' time, this costs more than one year's healthcare budget. When does the Minister say that money is now needed for care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u17	This is another whole potpourri of subjects. I'm gonna go back and light up some of them anyway. First of all...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u18	I will not be demoted into a potpourri of subjects. Everything I've said here is actually right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u19	Let's start with the first topic. That is, in fact, wrong. It's about the expenses of care. The expenses of care...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mrs. Agema, I give you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u21	I'm not gonna let the Secretary put me away. The financial statements 2021 of VWS are actually EUR 76 billion. Everything else is forecasts and predictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u22	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u23	Wait, I'll give you the floor in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u24	Sorry, I'm answering...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u25	Actual expenditure...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u26	I'd like to ask you not to talk through each other, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u27	The annual accounts of 2022 will not be available until May. It's just coming up in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u28	I now give the floor to the Minister so that he can respond to that. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u29	Let's just discuss the budget before us. That is the 2022 budget. If you add up the expenses to the Health Insurance Act, the Wlz, the budget-funded expenditure, the youth care, which is also a concern but is on the BZK budget, and the Wmo, which is also on the BZK budget, then you'll just get 100 billion, of which for next year 2 billion corona combat. So you could say 98 billion. That is the sum of the expenses that we are going to take care of next year. That is also what we have to relate to. That's one. Two is that I will so go into the need to make decisions about controlling that virus. Moreover, if we want care to continue to be able to cope, then we will have to take those decisions and take responsibility for them. I say that in the direction of Mrs Agema. But of course, that of those ic-beds is not a fair comparison. If you make the international comparison, we are not quite at the top in terms of ic-beds, to say the least. However, these international comparisons are not easy to read, because it is indeed about the high level of care that is organised in terms of complexity. High care and medium care are often counted as intensive care in other countries. They're not with us. That's one. Two is that all Western countries have a problem with their care capacity due to the corona crisis. There's a problem with patients who have to go to ICU and end up on a hospital bed. Those countries must therefore make far-reaching choices in order to avoid overburdening their care. That is not an exclusive Dutch issue. Then about the future. Of course, we will have to take action if we want care to be sustainable in the future. I will go into that in a moment, because there are a lot of groups that have made preliminary comments on this. But no group can go around that, not even the PVV group. If you want care to remain accessible and affordable towards the future and if you want quality to stay high, you don't get out of complicated choices. It's very easy to start talking about migration. As if migration were our problem with the affordability of care, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u30	I saw in answering the factual questions at least one question on which the Minister simply writes that migrants use 12% of the healthcare budget. Anyway, let's leave that out for a while. I am stunned by the attitude of our minister, who also deals with our hospitals. Hospital care was taken to the edge of the abyss before the health crisis began. He's the minister responsible. There are currently 200 people with corona on the ic; that is 200 too many. The Minister is going to talk about additional measures next weekend, but he does not recognise that it is because we simply lack capacity. Compare it with Germany: there was 50% of the ic-beds occupied before the crisis and we already had 90%. We have far too little manpower and far too little resources at our disposal. Then the VWS minister says here: "Yes, but I will continue to do so. Yes, the volume growth limit for hospitals will remain 0% next year. Yeah, there's no money for catching up. Yes, within ten years, half the hospitals will be closed." How can the VWS Minister do that here, if he is actually planning to launch new freedom-limiting measures on our people next weekend, while 200 people are currently on ice? That's 200 too many! Then the Minister must acknowledge that there is something seriously wrong with the capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u31	First of all, the qualification "the concern to the edge of the abyss." I go on a lot of work visits in healthcare and I talk to a lot of people who need care and care. If you speak and know the people in care and know how much dedication is being worked there, how much quality is being put there, if you know how many people can count on loving care every day, then please do not talk about care as standing at the edge of the abyss in the most important debate of the year. There is, I would dare say, if you are ill and need care really no better country to live in than the Netherlands. That's one. Two: the care capacity. Of course, you will have to take measures to control a very serious virus, otherwise care will become overloaded, otherwise too many people will become ill. Of course, you'll have to be prepared to take those measures. I can assume, in the direction of Mrs Agema, that Mrs Agema will also do everything in her power to ensure that care is not overloaded. Then the capacity. The problem with capacity is not that there is too little, that we have too much trouble scaling it up quickly. That is not an exclusive Dutch problem. That is a problem that many more countries have. Because of the over-fatigue in care over scaling up of ic capacity, it has been scaled up for a long time now, it is just so difficult to cope with the enormous influx of patients again. In fact, care has been in crisis mode for a year and a half. That makes it very difficult to expect that from the people in the care again, if you also want regular care to continue. I will come to that dilemma, which more groups have presented. But let us not talk now about the fact that if there had only been a little more ic-beds, we would not have had to take measures, because that is not the case. England is trying that out right now. There you see a permanent overload of the care that causes a lot of health damage, because a lot of planned care needs to be postponed. Mr. Chairman. Maybe we're not gonna make it all the way out. It's possible. However, I believe that the debate on the sustainability of care should be conducted with greater care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mr President, I would ask you not to take this interruption because the Minister is constantly challenging it. I see those people walking on their last legs, and I stand up for that. Don't let him suggest that things are different. If the Minister himself says that hospital care has been in a permanent state of crisis for a year and a half, how can he not want to invest in hospital care? Why is hospital care next year on zero? Why isn't there any money reserved for catching up? Why do the hospitals have to deal with it themselves? Why is he still on the standing policy of closing down hospitals in ten years' time? I didn't have one specific answer. There will only be dogma, there will only be doomsdays. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State. If our concern, as he himself says, has been in crisis for a year and a half, permanently, why doesn't he invest? Why is he continuing on the basis of care breakdown?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u33	This is all so out of the hip. It is, of course, simply wrong, it is really simply wrong not to invest in hospital care. 500 million more has been invested in the scaling up of the ic-beds and of the covid beds alone. Money is really the least of our problems in dealing with the corona crisis. That is absolutely our least important problem. A great deal of money has been allocated to the fight against the corona crisis: 12 billion last year, 2 billion next year in the budget. In 2020, when the crisis began, 5 billion was invested in the fight against the corona crisis. In short, money is absolutely not our problem. What is our problem is that there is no one around it, not even Mrs Agema, that is just the people in the care. At the moment 1.3 million people work in healthcare. That's not gonna be a lot so fast. In fact, it's already very difficult to hold them at all. That's what we're going to talk about, of course. In short, if we are talking about the sustainability of care, we really need to do so with more care. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u34	The Minister will come back to the questions about ic capacity, as a number of concerns have also been raised and a number of comments have been made by Mr Hijink and Mrs Agema, among others. I would ask that the debate be conducted as effectively as possible. When all kinds of value judgments are given, that triggers another reaction. So let us have the debate as effectively as possible. That is a nice little bridge to Mr Van Houwelingen of Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u35	We're always very factual. How can the Minister here, in response to the questions of my colleague, Mr Agema, so trivialize the crisis in healthcare? Has he listened to the contributions made here the day before yesterday? For example, did he listen to that letter of fire I read? 27,000 people have left care. That is partly because the conditions of employment are not good enough, apparently. A cliniclown deserves more than an ic nurse. So it should have been scaled up a long time ago by, for example, improving working conditions. Why didn't that happen? That's a question for the Minister. Also that trivializing in the sense of "yes, all countries have crisis": haven't there, Minister, always been patients moving from the Netherlands to Germany instead of the other way around? Surely Germany has at least a less serious problem? Otherwise, they wouldn't have been able to take our patients in. We cut the ic capacity by half compared to five years ago, didn't we? And we had a huge crisis on the ic in 2018, before corona, didn't we? Gommers said so himself. I can't believe nothing's happening. You're trivializing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u36	I think I had just begun to say in a good way that we have a great deal of concern about the sustainability of care. You can say that the care we have now is very good, that it is very special that so many people can work in care and that the quality is so high and the accessibility is so high. Especially in all international comparisons, Dutch care always stands out with its head and shoulders. At the same time, that is not a quiet possession towards the future. So I'm really the very last one that you'll hear from my introduction to the theme of sustainability of care that thinks it's all gonna be okay by itself. I think, on the contrary, that very large steps must be taken to preserve all this towards the future. That is why it is precisely about sustainable care. That is why so many of my colleagues' contributions were concerned with sustainable care. When it comes to scaling up the ic-care: it is naturally scaled up. But there are limits. We have to be honest about that. We can pretend they are not there and as if thousands of nurses are all out of work waiting for us to invite them to work on ice, it is just not true. So if we say that to each other and if we use that to explain to ourselves and to our constituents that there's no problem with that corona virus for that reason, then we're really fooling around. It's just not true. What have we done about the investment in ic-care? The base is usually about 950 beds. If 200 beds are to be added in the flu season, it's 1,150. We have provided structural financial impetus to strengthen the structural capacity of the ic in scaled form to 1.350. That's what we did. In addition, we have added a lot of regular covid beds. The investment in this scaled-up care alone has been 500 million. That's an absurd amount. Money isn't our problem at all. Staff is our problem. How long can you actually function in scaled-up form? Well, not for very long. We've done that for a long time, because you have to cancel other surgeries for it. You need those nurses to work in the covid department and the ic. They can't be in those other nursing departments and those other surgical care. In short, the number of nurses is not an easy to expand phenomenon, without scaling down other care. The health damage from scaling down that other care, it's a hell of a lot. It could get a lot bigger if we're not careful. That is why measures are indeed needed again. It would be very fair to speak out and acknowledge that to each other, and not pretend to be able to get there with a little scaling up of care and as if that were an easy process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u37	It's not true. There are 1,150 ic-beds. That's about as much as before the crisis. You're putting in "1,350." Gommers himself said: we can last one, two weeks. So we're at 1,150. That's the ic capacity. It was before the crisis. I went to work at the University Medical Centre in Maastricht. There they told me that they could have trained ICU nurses in one and a half easy. They succeeded through a good training strategy. There are 200,000 nurses. That's the pool you can draw from. It could have been easy, but there is not enough investment in it. That's why. There should have been a campaign coming from you, a big campaign: sign up for the care, we're going to raise salaries, this and that. I didn't see anything. Nothing happened. A few hospitals have done good work, such as the University Medical Centre Maastricht. Other hospitals have been a little less successful. We are now just really with less capacity, because people don't keep it up in care anymore than before the crisis. And then there was a problem, already in 2018. So nothing happened at all on your part! What did you do? Did you raise the salaries? What have you done in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u38	The salaries are, of course, increased. As we have the opportunity to raise salaries every year, it has been the same in recent years. The structural amount available during the past cabinet period has been 6 billion. For next year there was an additional 1.6 billion in the budget. At the APB we put 675 million on top of that. And it's just collective agreements. Good collective agreements have also been concluded for hospitals. They must also be there for the coming years, because of course it is necessary to continue to pay people well. But if you thought that was the reason why Ic nurses left work, where they left work... no, of course not. That has been the enormous pressure that the scaled-up capacity has brought with it. That's why we shouldn't think about it so easily. That's why we really need to stand up for care. If we really stand for care, then we also have the courage to say how it stands, namely that that virus makes people sick who are not vaccinated and that four out of five patients on the ICUs and three out of four in the ordinary hospital beds have not been vaccinated. That's why it's incredibly crowded with covid patients in hospitals, which wouldn't have been necessary if they had been vaccinated. You have really used every stage to discourage people and to sow fear about vaccination. If you had really had a heart for the care, Mr. Van Houwelingen, you would have told a very different story, namely: people, let yourself be vaccinated. This avoids the pressure on hospitals, and that is the best contribution we can make to the people in the care sector at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u39	You're spreading disinformation again. We'll meet in the corona debate on that. There are hospitals in the south of the country where eight out of ten people have been vaccinated. What you're saying is bullshit! But I'll leave it at that. I'm just saying that you didn't do anything to increase the ic capacity. And a little indexing of ic nurses' wages isn't helping. You should have given a big higher salary. The capacity would probably have remained more stable, the workload would have remained lower and people would have been more willing to continue their work, but you did not do all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr. Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr President, in response to this. These are really sense after sense factual inaccuracies. Additional investments have been made, including in salaries. Additional investments have been made, including in ic capacity. Only, the problem is that the workload is indeed high. That has to do with the large influx of corona patients. You could make a more meaningful contribution to this than you usually do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u42	The Minister states in a subtlety that such lovely collective agreements have been concluded for hospitals. I would like to remind him that all academic hospitals held a historic strike on the first day of this budget treatment because there is a worthless proposal, namely 1% increase in salaries for a very large group of staff in hospitals. We have had debates here for one and a half years with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health on the remuneration of healthcare workers. In those one and a half years coalition members ran away and we, I think, had to fight for 25 or 30 debates for a decent increase in the salary of healthcare professionals. In the end, a small start has been made for a limited group with a limited amount of money. We've been talking endlessly about the health bonus here. It was cut in half at first. Later on, it will be even lower for this year. So let's not pretend that the cabinet has done everything it can to make working in care attractive. The minister pretends that the shortage of healthcare staff is a kind of natural phenomenon, but it is not a natural phenomenon. Care workers don't just want a round of applause from the cabinet. They want that reward, too. They want the respect and the appreciation. They missed that. That has everything to do with the pressure being so high right now because people are running away. The outflow is huge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u43	It is difficult, Mr President, because I would like to do justice to all issues. That's why I had it so neatly arranged in these blocks. It is fine to have the debate on working in healthcare now. However, it is difficult to have such a fragmented debate and to have a new question put over and over again. About the salaries. I do not think Mr Hijink is doing justice to the situation. In fact, every year we provide additional space to conclude a good collective agreement and very nice collective agreements have been concluded, including for hospitals. Salary is never the only thing that helps people, of course, but there has to be a good salary. That's why the system is so organized. For next year, that was the discussion at the DPE, and on top of the 1.6 billion earmarked for next year's salary allocation, we made another 675 million available, precisely in order to be able to break down some of the gap that you see in a number of healthcare salaries compared to salaries in the market and other salaries in the public sector. That's the structural reward side. What we have done up there is the bonus of €1,000 and the bonus of €385. Structurally, 6 billion have been made available during the past cabinet period and 3 billion, i.e. 9 billion, on an occasional basis, and over 2.2 billion will be available for next year. Those are very, very, very large amounts. Is that enough? That is, of course, also a political judgment, which I would like to leave to you. I just think that the cabinet has done a lot within what the cabinet has been able to do, also for the salary development in the care sector. This collective agreement must be established, but you know as well as I do that we are not at the collective agreement table, which is really a matter between employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u44	But, of course, it would help if funding were such that caregivers could get the appreciation they deserve. This has been a problem for the past year. You can say it's not just about pay. No, of course it's not just about salary, but the workload increases significantly if there are too few colleagues. Why are there too few colleagues? 'Cause there's not enough pay in health care. So that is a very big problem. I would therefore ask the Minister once again not to spend another year and a half here talking about the appreciation of caregivers, but simply to organize it properly. Let us settle this properly so that we can catch up with this huge backlog, which can reach almost 10% of wages in business. That commitment must be made by the Minister, also in order to prevent any more caregivers from thinking: the workload is far too high for me here, I'm just going to do something else. I can make more money there, and I don't have to work so hard for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u45	First of all: the work in care is for a lot of people really incredibly beautiful work. They wouldn't just leave that job behind. We know that, in addition to having succeeded in recruiting a lot of extra people for care, we do not manage to hold all people equally well. Not to the extent you mentioned Tuesday, by the way, but we will come back to that. This is often a matter of how we organise the work, how much work and regulation pressure is experienced and whether people experience enough autonomy and control in their work. Salary is also a component in it, as one of the components. So that must be well arranged, because we need our people in the care sector very much. For this reason, additional funds are also made available each year. You can have a political judgment on whether that's enough or not. But I think that the system as we know it in health care is the wage development that is going on elsewhere, the people in care should also be able to go through; hence the additional public contribution every year. On top of that, there is the additional space, which has been opened up by the DPE, in order to catch up with the market sector where salaries are lagging behind. I think that's a very nice step that's been taken. Let us not pretend that wages are the main reason for leaving, let us not pretend that nothing happened for salaries, because a great deal has happened, including in the area of salaries. But that does not alter the fact that there are indeed reasons to leave in the care sector at the moment. We have to face that and we have to do something with it, otherwise we will lose our people where we need them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u46	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u47	What a nice introduction it was!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u48	What you have already answered does not need to be repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u49	I'm going through it obliquely. You're missing a lot, let me add. It can be short now. You have all said something about sustainability for the future. That is quite right, and I am glad that you have done so. I would like to dwell on that for the longest time this afternoon. Because the corona crisis has taught us again what scarcity is, you might say. We are not used to that in our country at all, but in recent times we have seen ourselves as an explosion of stuff, people, beds, everything. If we don't do something, that scarcity will take place in slow motion for the next 20 years. Because we're getting a lot older, the number of 80-plussers doubles, which is a blessing, but it also brings with it concerns. Because how do you actually manage the organization of care? You can look at it in a financial way: where we are already spending 100 billion on care and support, that will have to go up a lot. Next year's budget contains a plus of 21 billion compared to the first budget I have been able to defend here. Everyone feels that that can't be sustained. This cannot be sustained and the real ageing of the population must begin. I heard Mr Hijink say: it really is only 10% of GDP. That is true, but on the budget, on collective expenditure, we spend 28.6% on care. This certainly makes care the cuckoo cub that pushes other spending out of the nest, which we consider equally important, for example education, defence and security. These are all important issues. If we don't do something about the sustainability of care, we can pay for it to a decreasing extent. The individual household booklet of people at home shows that we already spend about €6,000 per adult Dutchman. Next year it will be €6.161 and so on. That's a lot. We often don't see that, because we think: we pay a premium of about €1,500, a risk of our own and a contribution of our own; that's it, isn't it? But no, it's on average a lot more. In the Netherlands, only a small 11% of all healthcare expenditure is coughed up through its own contribution. All the rest is collective. That doesn't make us quite the frontrunner, but we are virtually the frontrunner in what we collectively pay with each other. Mr Hijink will say: that is what I want; that is what I think is a very good idea. I think we all want to, because it shouldn't really matter how thick your wallet is. We all need good care. This brings me to my most important conclusion for the coming years and years. We love our care very much and are very impressed by what the care can do, but we also worry about a lot of things, especially towards the future. Although we might want a lot of things different, I think we all want to maintain solidarity: young pay for old, healthy pay for sick and rich pay for poor. Regardless of the size of your wallet, there must always be a good doctor and good nurse available. That's what we want. If we want to preserve this towards the future, we must maintain the accessibility, quality and affordability of care. That requires choices and fortunately I have heard that willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u50	There is an interruption by Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u51	The Minister can say that the cost of care is swallowing up an increasing proportion of the government budget that will also be so, but that is of course also because political parties, including the CDA of the minister himself, have chosen over the past decades to significantly reduce the rates of profit tax, for example. They're almost halfway through. You can say that the concern is more pressing on public spending, but you can also say that why did these parties actually ensure that the largest companies, the multinationals, are less and less contributing to the costs that we as a society together? We do not need to discuss the tax on profits now, but I would like to ask the Minister whether he recognizes that it is ultimately a question of political choices. You can complain about how high the costs of care are, but you can also note that it is very unfortunate that the revenues we get from the tax on profits, for example, are very much lower than they could have been if we had not reduced the rates so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u52	In any case, expenditure would not have been lower. Perhaps the distribution of income would have been different. You can indeed have whole party political debates about that. I do not think we can agree on that very quickly, but I was actually trying to make a very binding remark. I certainly believe that there are ideological differences, for example on the distribution of costs. But at the same time, I think that if we were to be allowed to choose what is the most important thing about the concern to preserve for the future, it would be solidarity. Take a country like Switzerland. There are 25% of expenditure on own payments. In almost all Western European countries, healthcare payments are much higher than in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, we were able to maximize our own payments to about 10% to 11%. That's very special. If we didn't do anything about the real choices to the future, that solidarity would come under pressure at some point. The tool to turn on is the package or its own contribution. Those are the buttons set up for politics in our system. If you turn those buttons, I think you're compromising solidarity within our system pretty soon. If you make the package much smaller, then a large part goes to the supplementary insurance. Then people with higher incomes simply go to insurance against that. They just keep their care, but the low-income people don't. Well, I think that's a problem, and you think that's a problem, too. We all think that's a problem. So watch your own payments. There really is a limit to what you can ask at that point. On the other hand, I think that, if we really want to ensure that care is sustainable for the future, it is mainly about genuinely daring to intervene in the organisation of care and in the way care is organised. Maybe that's a nice little bridge too, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to add to what Mr Hijink himself has said about this on a number of occasions. Perhaps I should explain: this was my general introduction to the shelf life. I think it is good to make it more concrete on the basis of a number of themes. I would first like to discuss care for the elderly, then I would like to discuss acute care and then I would like to look at data sharing. These are all basically subjects that we should tackle in the future. This is just a selection of course, because there is much more than that. I think we should do everything possible to do more to prevent this from happening. This has also been the theme of the "Care for the Future" memorandum that we need to do more about the organisation and direction, and that we need to do more about innovation. That's actually in all the subjects in the care sector. There is also a lot of work to be done at that point. Maybe we should discuss this elderly care first, because you could say it's the most urgent place there. If we don't do something about it and leave it about that, then care for the elderly will become less and less accessible. You will then see that there is less and less success in getting a good neighborhood nurse in the neighborhood, actually getting access to nursing care and organising all kinds of care support in a good way. That means that, looking at the future of care for the elderly, you will have to do something about three themes. Those are the themes "what can I do for myself?" Mrs Tellegen was right to put that on the table. "Who's gonna take care of me later?" So how do we organise this care and the theme "Where do I live?'. The latter is also a question you should look at again. I want to check them out that way. First of all, what can I do for myself? I think that is what Mrs Tellegen is talking about. Do we help older people enough? Are we helping enough people think about their own concerns in the future? I think that's very different. I think the answer is very often no. I think that people who ask may also hide a little from themselves, because it is also quite confrontational to think about that. But I think we can do more, so people want to think about the future. What we are doing now, for example, is distributing the brochure "Vitaal Ageing" via KBO-PCOB. It helps to make choices. We're doing advanced care planning. Specialist Elder Medicine Ester Bertholet has developed the treatment passport. These are all questions with a view to the future, which help to make real choices. But I think we can do more in that. When it comes to the question "who actually takes care of me?" Of course, we've taken a lot of steps in community nursing. But I think I very much agree with Mr Hijink that we will have to make more fundamental choices on this point. It is about more fundamental choices in terms of working with more than one team in the district, so that it is clear who in the district is actually accessible to the availability of community care. I think that the funding proposals, as Mrs Kuik did for the population benefit, could also play a role in the future. Maybe the most basic choices are still in the living area. We had a debate on this last week. We will have to make other choices about the future. I am not going to anticipate what choices that should be, because I think it is really up to a new cabinet to make more fundamental and far-reaching choices than we have made so far. But I'm going to give you an example of how the system world and the world of life can come together at that point. That is in line with what Mrs Ellemeet, Mrs Bikker and Mr Hijink said about this. Imagine if we continued to think about nursing care in the same way. Imagine that the demand for care doubles because the number of 80-plussers doubles, then it is impossible to continue to organise nursing care in the same way. At the same time, we do want the most vulnerable people with this quality of care to be actually helped there. So we will have to rethink what the theme of living and caring should look like. Suppose you would say the following on the system side. So we need to think about how the Wlz should be organised. The Forest Committee, which, at our request, has considered how this should be done, says: choose to apply only one law to the most vulnerable and oldest. That's the Wlz for inpatient care, and then the Zvw and the Wmo should be able to do it together for the elderly living at home. This is a simplification in the system. On the issue of divorced living and caring for Mrs Ellemeet, you would take a step straight away, because then you have at least rethought a part of that issue. The life side that goes with it is that we want to help people to stay in their own homes for as long as possible. This includes the choice that Mrs Tellegen calls, namely preparing yourself for time. Then there is the support side, which Mr Hijink appoints. It also involves new forms of living and caring, other than the traditional nursing home, which make it easier for people to live outside the nursing home. Then there are the funding incentives. You said something about that, too. Are these funding incentives currently helping to smooth this issue? I don't think so. If you would like to invest in prevention or longer living at home as a municipality or as a health insurance company, that is a bit of a buzz for the neighbors at the moment. The real revenue lands not with yourself, but in another domain. So if we are to think about the future of care for the elderly, we will actually have to start with the world of people themselves. Then we have to think about how they actually want to live, what they can do themselves, how we want to organise care and where we want them to live. Then we have to think about what the system can look like best to support it. These are rather fundamental choices that we will have to make on that point. Those are all tough choices, too. We can't do it either. Then it will actually be much more difficult, because then we will see this same issue again in quite different debates. Then here we are going to have the debate on why it is no longer possible to organise the district care properly. Then here we are going to have the debate on far too long waiting lists in nursing care. If we make the fundamental choices, we will face very difficult dilemmas, but if we do not make those fundamental choices, we will face at least such difficult debates. I think it's good to have that on the retina for years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mrs Ellemeet and then Mrs Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u54	Thanks to the Minister for his observations, that is just what I call ideas and ideas, which hopefully a future cabinet will work on in concrete terms. The complicated thing about care for the elderly is that there's a huge housing component in it. That was also my question: how does it affect the healthcare budget? A large part of the elderly care budget is actually financing homes for vulnerable elderly people. The minister says we could look at other forms of living. I have, of course, already made the necessary proposals for this. The complicated thing is: if you were to separate living and caring now, that would lead to negative income effects, especially for people with smaller wallets. We know that from research. So we should not do that too quickly. That complicates it. I would like to hear from the Minister the size of the housing component in the healthcare budget. That's what I asked him: is that really pressing? And doesn't that also mean that we need to see the whole discussion about rising healthcare costs in a slightly different light, namely that it is also part of the cost of living? We in the Netherlands happen to place them on the VWS budget; in other countries they may be in other places on the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u55	Or not at all. I think that in an international comparison we spend the most on nursing care, especially on accessible nursing home care for everyone. This type of provision is available in other countries, but it is often privately funded and therefore available to rich people, but not to average people. In the Netherlands, it is precisely this type of care that is available to everyone. I think that's a very big good. It is true that, in international comparison, we also co-finance part of the housing costs, especially in nursing care. That's true. Mrs Ellemeet is right about that. At the same time, this has been taken into account in the own contribution system. Could it be useful, in terrible policy terms, to do more to separate living and caring? I think so. I think you should take it really slow and just for new cases. But I think that you really need to rethink your own contribution system. If you live in a nursing home and you still have a partner at home, you pay the low own contribution. If we were to say "the housing costs should not actually be financed out of care, so people should do so themselves, perhaps compensated by rent payments," then we would ask people to bear two house charges. Of course, people can't just wear that. So you really have to rethink the entire own contribution system if you want to do something about the phenomenon of living and caring. Otherwise what you say will indeed happen: then nursing care becomes less accessible to people with middle incomes or lower incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mrs. Ellemeet still? No. Then Mrs Tellegen of the VVD, and then Mr Hijink and Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u57	I just wanted to go back to Langer's house and what the minister said about it. I would like to talk specifically about prevention, and more specifically about prevention of falls. The latest figures are that last year there were 103,000 elderly...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u58	I'm interrupting. I think the Secretary of State is gonna do fall prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u59	Then I didn't say anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u60	Look. Mr. Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u61	I would actually like to ask the Minister whether we can reach a conclusion on this issue today. I broadly agree with the story that is very inefficiently organised in neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods, but also in villages, for example. It's all going side by side. You need to be at five different counters in order to be able to organise the care for mother, grandma or anyone. I would like to ask the Minister: could it not be that, on a limited scale, we are going to try to find out in a few places what happens if we throw together the money spent in a neighbourhood or a village for the elderly and put it into one organisation in a few places? Then we see what happens when we start organizing care for the elderly in this way, where all these district nurses do not have to compete with each other, i.e. without competition and without market forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u62	Actually, I'd find that very interesting. In part, we have done so in three pilots, whose organization was incredibly complicated. I know that they took place in Dongen, in my opinion in Ede and in another place to actually rethink the care of the elderly across the domain boundaries and say: it doesn't really matter what legal funding flow this falls under; you can use it across the domains and then see how this can take the most effective form. So we have done this pilot, but I would also like to understand Mr Hijink's proposal as follows. On the way to the new cabinet period and also in the preparation for it, it is of course fully thought out what legal changes are needed to maintain the sustainability of care for the elderly. Then we will have to take a lot of inefficiency out of the organisation, making it more enjoyable to work in care and making it much easier to access care and making care more financially viable towards the future. That's the legal side. Then we start crafting systems and so on, but Mr Hijink really wants to try this out in the form of a kind of testing ground. In doing so, you may need to step up right away by doing that right, so that you actually know from the implementation practice how the legislative changes should work out and take shape. If Mr Hijink would like to make this proposal, I would ask him to give me the opportunity to think about it in such a way that we can look for that synergy: how can that be a testing ground, even in redesigning the care of the elderly at district level, thought-out from the level of the neighborhood or the neighborhood?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u63	Of course, I have also described the subject raised by Mrs Ellemeet in detail in my book Versilveren. When the Minister says 'we spend so much money on care for the elderly in comparison to the countries around us', I am also annoyed by that. Then it's about the capital charges. If we put that in the budget... When my book came out in 2015, it was somewhere between 3 billion and 4 billion. By now, it could be somewhere between 5 billion and 6 billion. As a result, we get very high own contributions, which then go back into the billions. That is all added up to all of us: we have the care, the costs, the capital costs, how much does it cost? This appropriation is intended to cover the expenditure incurred by Then you get very strange relationships unlike what the countries around us do. I do not know if Mrs Ellemeet suggested it, but a very large majority of the House has previously been in favour of separating those costs, i.e. for separating the living costs, the nursing costs, the hotel costs. It is all very complicated to do that, but I would ask the Minister to be more comparable with other countries and not always to get those doom scenarios thrown over us. Would he be willing to send a new letter of capital charges to the Chamber in which he presents up-to-date figures on these capital charges and those own payments and in which he indicates the possibilities if we were to grow in a number of years? We know that when people come to live in the nursing home, they are so old and sick that it is not a very long-term situation either. Is he therefore prepared to write a comprehensive letter about long-term care, a letter of capital charges?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u64	Yeah, actually, even more precise. I think Mrs Ellemeet would like to know what the international comparison would look like if you did the correction for housing costs. That's what you're saying. I think it would be very good to do that exercise. Currently, housing costs account for around 10% to 15% of total expenditure on Wlz in-house care. If you make a comparison with Germany, for example, you can see that this is not included in Germany in this way. But we also say that this has been taken into account in the high own contributions. I would just like to say that the costs are being incurred and, in part, they are being passed on to the people who are going to live there. So it's not like if you took those costs away, there wouldn't be any. Someone's gonna have to pay them. What I would like to do is make that international comparison in a good way. And it could happen that a new cabinet will also have to work and will continue to carry out the separation of living and care. That is what I would like to point out to Mrs Ellemeet, and you will probably agree that if you take too great a step in this direction, it may be very ugly in people's pockets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u65	But that's what I meant. I've made that international comparison myself before, so I'm not very interested in that, just in updating it. But my question was whether the Minister is prepared to map out the possibilities of that separation of residence and care in a letter to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u66	Yeah, sure. Part of that has already been done in Care Choices in Map, which you used to create your election programs, but I am willing to do so. So it is about the international comparison and the mapping of the possibilities for separating living and caring in the different modalities and choices you can make. I am now going to another section of those sustainability questions, because you have also made a number of comments on them. That's about the acute care and the ERs. The same applies to this...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u67	Before you start, there is an interruption by Mrs Tellegen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u68	I understand that the Minister wants to keep the momentum going, but if this was the care of the elderly, I now have a question which I hope will be put at the right time and to the right person. I have mentioned two points, two points, which could lead to improvements in the current system of long-term care. The Minister himself referred to it. First of all, this is the example of the subsequent funding through these three legislative systems. We have already had very good experiences with this in a number of pilots. How does the Minister look at giving these pilots more follow-up? We can, of course, say that it is now on the formation table, but this is something that has already been going on and which we can do more about in this budget debate today. It can be a major improvement for the patient. That was my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u69	Certainly, these pilots have been done, for the disabled care in Rotterdam and for the elderly care I thought in South Limburg, in Maastricht. The evaluation was also done, and it was also shared with the Chamber. It has been said that this is a good way of doing personal funding with the current systems. And actually, there's not that much in the way of just dealing with the funding in a personal way. My hesitation in getting too excited about it in the future is that it is not yet a real solution to the problem. In fact, if you want to make care sustainable, including long-term care, you really need to rethink it. Then you actually have to rethink the system. What does it look like? For example, I would like to answer the following question. Is it really logical that when it comes to living and caring at home, so longer at home, not being in a nursing home, we are currently paying care for the elderly out of three laws? Isn't that weird? Personal funding doesn't really help, because the whole window and also the whole bet, and therefore all the spill-over effects, simply come from all the legal bulkheads we have at the moment. If we really want to do something about this, then we have to go through the whole complicated process, perhaps to say: let the Wlz care focus on inpatient care, and let the non-intramural care, i.e. non-institutional care, come from the Zvw and the Wmo. That's an example of a legislative change. You will probably say that again: but that is all very much a system system; can we not just think about it from the level of people and the neighborhood? And that was actually the proposal that Mr Hijink made. It's already been practiced in those pilots that have been done. Personal funding also affects that, but isn't that really real yet. So if we really want a redesign of care for the elderly, I think we really need to re-register it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u70	I agree with the Minister. The advantage of personal funding is, of course, that you no longer stack in the different laws, but that care is replaced. That's where I'd like to go, as a dot on the horizon. I have one other question, about something that the Minister mentioned very briefly at the beginning. This question is about improving the quality of municipal procurement policies and prevention. How do you direct the incentives so that a municipality actually benefits if it installs a stair lift, and that benefit does not fall in the Wlz? So you have the discussion about the terrible bulkheads again, but that is an essential question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u71	Absolutely. You could handle that in a lot of degrees. At the moment we offer the possibility to finance preventive efforts from the Wlz. At least, the amendment of the law to do so has been initiated, because that cannot even be done under the legislation at the moment. Preventing people from entering the Wlz is also what we want to make financially possible from the same Wlz. I think that's a great help. The second thing that is happening at the moment is that municipalities and health offices are increasingly able to find each other in all kinds of content programs in the neighbourhood. I think that's very nice. On the other hand, you have to be honest. You can see an enormous influx to the Wlz, which is not often due to the fact that the funders in the domain have been advised to do so before the Wlz. This partly affects the waiting lists for Wlz care. Those incentives will really have to be improved. I think that should be done by making more fundamental choices in funding, where it becomes really attractive and rewarding to ensure that you prevent people from becoming more and more concerned. Then I come to another cutout from the sustainable care. We also need to discuss the issue of acute care and the emergency services. Many parties have said a number of things about this. Among other things, the PvdA and JA21 have said that there is concern about the accessibility of acute care. Written questions have already been asked there: how is that really, how is it that it has happened a number of times that the E.R.'s had to close? You could say that not so much the fact that it happens a few times, but that it occurs regularly is actually an expression of the crunch that we have. The hashtag healthcare infarction was cited here. That's what you see in these kinds of pictures on the story. Fortunately, it has not been so, as the inspection says, that the accessibility or quality of acute care has been under pressure at all. But if that is going to happen quite regularly, of course it is. Tamara van Ark and even Bruno Bruins have already discussed with your Chamber that we have just been talking about a redesign of care for the elderly, a redesign of the scenery of acute care. That's what that charcoal sketch was made for. It was shared with the Chamber, but now declared controversial. I understand that in itself, because it leads to fundamental choices. That does not mean that the discussion is over, but not that the discussion is over. In those charcoal sketches it is about a redesign on a number of fronts, among other things that you choose that emergency rooms are close to home and that the emergency rooms with some more possibilities and a wider arsenal of care can sometimes also be a little further away. At the highest level there are the trauma centers, where you might have to have a little less of them than you are now. Why? To keep the quality high, but there's something there. Mrs Kuik and Mrs Van den Berg pointed that out. This means that we need to rethink the accessibility standards for emergency services, for the emergency services and also for the trauma centres. So how far away can it be? How far can it be to keep care available close to home? If you need to concentrate on the more specialised forms of acute care, you should at least tell us what the accessibility standards should be. I think it's very good to talk about it that way and deal with it. This requires a more far-reaching decision on the charcoal sketch that has been made. I think this will be one of the first topics you will discuss with my successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u72	Thank you. First Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA and then Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u73	The Minister states that we need to make choices, for example because you can concentrate high-complex low-volume care better, precisely to ensure quality. That's where the Minister finds the CDA on his side. What we are still missing is an answer to the question of how comfort is given to the citizen. How does the resident get an insight into why it is important to make certain choices? That didn't happen with the charcoal sketch. It's just dropped at once. I am pleased to hear the Minister say that standards need to be established so that accessibility does not matter if you live in Groningen or in Goes. But what I miss is the basics. We need them in order to be able to make any decisions at all, as I indicated in my speech. In the spring of 2019 I asked how many stops there are per hospital. In the autumn of 2019, four regions had an indication of 1%, but it matters if you are closed 12 times for half an hour or six hours once. There is no insight into that at the moment. There is also no understanding of the quality of the emergency services. In the written reply, the Minister indicated that we are three years ahead with the quality registration and the whole system of that legislation. So I would like to know from the Minister whether he agrees with the CDA that before we make certain decisions, we should simply have adequate information and require hospitals to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u74	I think that in the written set I answered that last question with: yes, that should, of course and preferably also be a bit unambiguous, so that it can also be reported about in an easy way. With regard to these stops, I have already replied to an earlier set of written questions that it does indeed appear that it occurred more than in the previous year, but that, on its own, the accessibility and quality of the emergency aid has never been compromised. But it is an expression that the pressure is high and it is also an expression of the hashtag that Mrs Kuiken calls, the concern that professionals also have: jeez, if demand increases, can we still handle it? That's why you need to rethink it. If we keep doing that about a little bit the way we're doing it right now, you'll see that the bites are gonna be harder and harder to man. Then you'll see that the E.R.s have more and more stops like this. This will put pressure on the accessibility of acute care. If you want the accessibility and accessibility to stay intact, you will have to organize it differently. Some things are closer to home, in the form of an emergency station for example, but some things may be a bit further away. The ER may sometimes be a little further away, but it is then normalized, namely that you also know what you can count on: how far is that from every resident, or, vice versa, that every resident must be at an emergency station within an x-number of minutes or an emergency room. So you're gonna have to think about it again. That is actually too little standardized at the moment. So the dates, as Mrs van den Berg points out, are not in order, but I also say that standards are not in order at the moment. But it is very partial that there is 'what should there actually be within that 45 minutes standard'? What are the driving times for the ambulance anyway? Those are actually the only two standards. You're really gonna have to do that in a redesign of acute care better than we have it in order right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u75	In any case, I am pleased to hear the Minister say that we will need more data on this. Then I hope that those stops will be started first as well. Because it is also very stressful for the people who work on the ambulance when they are told: drive from Hoogeveen to Zwolle or whatever. I have not yet seen the Minister take action to identify this now. The second is that the Minister points out in his written reply that hospitals should cooperate in this. The Minister writes that this is only the case if quality registration is accepted by a whole system and a committee. That is to a large extent the butcher who approves his own meat. So I want to know from the Minister what he's going to do about it so that it's going to come up from the government too and not just from the field, which sometimes has interests in not wanting certain registrations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u76	Those are actually two different subjects. In my opinion, we agree on the first subject rather quickly, namely that you will have to come to that redesign of the acute care landscape. This requires better standards because you can do what you say for people who need to do, but also what Mrs Kuik has brought in, for example. You just need to be able to provide certainty about the accessibility. If that's what we want, it's really gonna take a redesign of that chain. I think we agree on that. Secondly, it is about what is actually the quality and how it is recorded. I must honestly say that I know the area of care quite well by now, but this is not something that I am saying right now: it works this way and so it should be different. But let me make it in the form of a promise. I would like to say to Mrs van den Berg that I am going to go deeper into it and that I am also identifying what is actually the task in the field of registration, including quality registration. I will also include this in that trajectory towards the sustainability of acute care, the redesign of acute care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mr. Chairman. This bird is a bit hoarse. I've been tested, but it's very annoying. It's just the way you look at it; you can laugh at it, but I'm a little embarrassed. But I'm gonna ask a question anyway. How we organise acute care is not just a matter of: how do we keep it up and affordable? This is also based on political choices. So I'd like to record that. Two. I would like to join in the CDA's plea that you really need to know the quality you are asking for and what is useful. Emergency care is not everywhere sufficient to meet acute care. A lot of standards are missing, including how many staff you should have. So we're not gonna finish this discussion today. I just want to say that the choice of acute care and the way in which we set it up is really very fundamental, just like the fact that population benefit should be included, as far as I am concerned. I have not yet heard the Minister, and that would be my specific question for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u78	Whether population benefit is the best form of funding here, I dare not say. I would think you should think in terms of availability rather than in terms of population cost. That is certainly because the way in which you would really like to redesign it, as you rightly say, should also be standardized, at the point of accessibility and at least what you want available, at how much distance from the people. So with regard to that funding, which is of course part of the redesign of acute care, I would think that there should be more in the direction of availability than in the direction of population cost. Then there's the quality standard. I agree that you will have to set a better standard in availability. You have to think about it carefully if you are setting a very high quality standard somewhere, including with regard to the number of people you need to have available, or the type of guard care that you should always have available, or within how much time you need to be able to fly into a particular specialty. All these types of standards can be quality-enhancing on the one hand, and that is of course also very nice. But it may also be so difficult to organise, that it is again detrimental to accessibility or proximity. In short, when redesigning that acute care chain, you will indeed have to standardize. This requires a strong interference of politics, rather than just a professional quality standard. You will actually have to standard: what quality do you want to put together with what accessibility for everyone? What is also feasible, and what is organizeable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u79	My concern is a little in the following. I expect an agreement within a month, when we just don't have a lot of standards and quality figures on that acute care. So I am very much of reform, but this must be done wisely and carefully. That's one. Secondly, this population benefit is necessary, because it should not depend on a treatment, whether you are using the general practitioner's office or emergency care, or whether you are still using acute care. That's what they say about acute care: we do sometimes investigations, because it's in our gene package, when it's just the question of whether they're really necessary. So those incentives will have to come out. That's also what's under the advice. I understand that the Minister does not quite know that to the points and commas, because it is not really his job. But perhaps my general appeal is: this really calls for caution and reflection. We really need to talk to the field itself, or else I'm afraid we're gonna make hasty choices and force closures, while that's unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u80	I know what you're saying. I think that is also the concern that Mrs van den Berg has just expressed, from the same background: you want to keep the care accessible, also for the region, and you want to make sure that they know what they can count on, that the quality is good and that it is and will remain available. You also want to make no sudden choices, without being really thought-out in the sense of: what does it actually mean for the people themselves? This applies first and foremost to the people who need this care, but also to the people who work there. So I share that very much. My prediction is that you can't escape that reform. My prediction is also that it is one of the first subjects you will be discussing with my successor. Of course, you have to do this step by step, and you have to do it with caution, on the basis of the good data and the good facts. Of course, proposals are simply being developed by the public authorities and they are still being worked on. That's no use to you now. However, it is noted that the data base on which decision-making is based must be sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u81	There is another interruption by Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u82	Firstly, I cannot say that I am very reassured by the idea of these reforms. It sounds to me like we're gonna be a shortage of redistributing instead of betting on strengthening our emergency care an sich. Emergency care is, by definition, a matter of urgency. Assessments are already being made on the ERs. A very large percentage of patients are sent to the doctor's office and not to the ER itself. So we already have that distribution. I don't think that's gonna reduce that concern if we change the driving time. That's point one. Secondly, there are now alarm signals from the field about emergency rooms that are closed one fifth of the time. Eight out of nine emergency services have been closed at the same time in one area. What are we going to do about that right now while we are waiting for that reform?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u83	I shall go back to the beginning of Mrs Pouw-Verweij's interruption. I think it is fair to say that there is indeed increasing scarcity. That's fair to say. I think we should also add that if we do not see that and if we do not allow it to be a reason to redesign or redesign that acute care chain, the example you mentioned in the second half of your question will increasingly occur. This will also become increasingly more difficult to solve. I think that's just a picture of the story about what scarcity and the growth of scarcity do. Demand is increasing, but supply cannot increase to the same extent, because, for example, staff are lacking. This leads, for example, to the need for such a hospital to actually close down temporarily at some point, because that hospital is no longer able to guarantee quality. That inspection said: we see that it is now more common than previous years. It's always happened, but it's been short-lived. Now we see that it's more common. Two. We also see that it seems to be more common in a number of regions. That's also an indication, or a signal of scarcity. Three. Fortunately, we see that where these stops had to be introduced, the accessibility and quality of the emergency services have not been less than adequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u84	I apologize for interrupting the minister. I would like to make the point that we do not know very well whether that has not happened because we were very lucky that eight of the nine closed posts fortunately did not die during that period, or because we could bear it really well that all this time one of the nine remained open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u85	I agree. I'll be careful about it, too. The inspection has indicated to us that there are no signs that quality or accessibility has been under pressure. That's not what I'm saying: there's nothing wrong, people, just keep moving. On the contrary. There is something going on, namely that there is a shortage of staff. Due to absenteeism and workload, it is very difficult to keep the emergency services always open. Institutions have been forced to make temporary stops. This has occurred more frequently in the past year than in previous years. So there's definitely something going on. It is a picture of the story of scarcity. That's what it is. You're absolutely right. Redesign won't help people tomorrow. Therefore, in all situations where this is the case, there is a duty of care on the part of the health insurance provider. In all these situations, this is the reason why the health insurance company deals with parties: "If it can't be done as it should be done, then it has to be done as it can. How are we going to solve that?" Solutions are found in all these situations. People are also very creative. But that's not the way to do it for the longer term. We can't say, "It'll all be okay by itself." I think it is precisely for political reasons that we should ask: what can we do? It's a reason to come up with a redesign.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u86	I agree with the Minister that redistribution will not help people tomorrow. In addition, I think it is more important that redistribution does not solve the scarcity either. In my opinion, we, as politicians, are sending out a signal that this scarcity is there and we now recognise it as a fact. We are going to set up our system to deal with this scarcity, rather than saying that this scarcity is a fundamental problem that will be tackled at all costs. I hope that you will go into this further in a moment, because I had also asked questions about the number of nurses. I hope that we are going to do that and we are going to focus on that subject until we get that number back to the right level, so that this redistribution is not necessary. I think it is a policy choice to say: unfortunately, that scarcity is there, so we adapt the system. Then you'll give in to the scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u87	But that is precisely the essence of my speech and that of many groups in this budget debate. I just tried to articulate that. I am not just looking at how much money we spend. I think everyone says that money is not our most important problem in the short term. Eventually, the affordability of care is certainly a big problem. It's just not our biggest problem in the short term. Our biggest problem is people. The current occupation of care in the labour market is very large. 1.3 million people work in health care. One in seven people work in health care. That's a lot. There is almost no country in the world that organized it that way. If you say "with a doubling of the number of 80-plussers, there should just be a doubling of the number of people in care who care for those 80-plussers," then I think we are being unrealistic, because there are just not that many people. We therefore do not escape the fact that this scarcity is also a reason to opt for a redesign to solve this scarcity. With just more people, you're never gonna make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u88	I agree with the Minister. We are facing an ageing population and will therefore have to change things. I'm one of the first to admit that. Certain things will not remain sustainable because of the way our population changes. It's all true. But we're talking about emergency care. It's not like there's gonna be more people on the ER as we get more 80-plussers. Those two aren't gonna run up right away. The emergency room, I know from experience, isn't full of elderly people. There are also small children and people who have had an accident. That's a much larger percentage. We don't send elderly people to the emergency room much more often. Those choices are already being made. To throw that side of the scarcity into a pile with the scarcity that there is in the emergency care, I do not think it is entirely fair. I would still like a very specific answer to this shortage of emergency care. That is really essential. I find it very worrying if we do not have that base anymore and we are no longer able to receive people with life-threatening diseases effectively, which means that we have to adjust our standards for driving times. I would therefore like an answer specifically on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u89	Then I'll start with that. If this happens now, in the current system, the healthcare provider is simply inclined to have that conversation with the parties in the region on the basis of the duty of care to ensure that this acute care is maintained and that the emergency care remains available. Of course, all forms of care must remain at least the emergency care. Because that's not for nothing urgent. So we'll agree on that soon enough. It has to be, and it will be. Just, I'm saying that in the current system, it's plaster sticking if you're not prepared to redesign. You are not saying that you are not prepared to do so, on the contrary, but I would like to emphasise this. In the end, we're just going to see a growth in demand that has everything to do with demographics. Of course, in that very acute axis we also see an overload if we do not organize that acute axis differently. Part of it may also have to be a redistribution of commitment to care; I think I can do that either. In part, it will also have to be a question of organising the acute care, among other things, in a different way. But I actually think that no small part of care escapes from rethinking the question: how are we going to organise ourselves for the future? Then let me choose one more cut-out, also for the sake of time, and then move on to the block of work in care. Mrs Pouw-Verweij asked for that too. Let me pick another one. What if it's tight with the people you have in care? We are also going to talk about reducing the regulatory burden in the context of healthcare work. In this case, however important innovation may be, let me stress the innovation of the digital organisation of care, namely the exchange of data. If you see how incredibly much human commitment is made to faxing really true files and overwriting them because data exchange isn't digitized, then that's something to get very tacky. I think there are still two domains in the Netherlands where the fax is still being used and at least one of them is the care. I have sometimes claimed that there was only one domain where it was still present, namely care. At that time, I was told that it is still present within the judiciary. I don't know about that. It's not an observation of its own; I've heard this say. In any case, it is a question of digitised data exchange. That has nothing to do with the innovation of care, but it has to do with innovation in the way we work together. That's gotta get some real gas. That's what your room wants. That is why your Chamber first of all, Mr Bruins, then Mr Van Ark and now gave me a push by saying: come up with a legislative proposal that regulates that. That has become the Wegiz. It's on the Chamber's agenda. You also said that we are not waiting for a new cabinet; we are just going to deal with it. I only welcome that. It's a terribly complicated law, so we're really gonna take the time to treat it in a good way. Apart from the bill, it's necessary... The legislative proposal provides for the obligation on healthcare providers to exchange digitally and also to be required to use the same language and technique in respect of a number of datasets. That's one. Two. In order for this to work effectively, we also need, for example, to come up with a clear way of authorising this exchange of information. It takes a lot of time for healthcare professionals to ask: can I share this data with those who also have to work? I think Mrs Van den Berg mentioned that. That's true. We must therefore move towards a clear form of consent. In addition, we need to move towards a better and more unambiguous way of access. We now have the UZI pass. It really deserves an improvement for healthcare professionals to access digital files. In short, digitalisation does not lead the way towards other sectors and the Netherlands, and the Dutch care, is not leading the way internationally either. We really have our legs to pull with that. That is very complicated, it is going to be very tough and it also requires difficult decisions, but we must do so. This is a major task, also to make care future-proof and sustainable. Then I'd like to go on to work the block in health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u90	That is possible, but there is a final question from Mrs Van Esch of the Party for Animals on the first subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u91	Today is Climate Day, just as we are discussing the VWS budget. Today we also have a destructive analysis by the Council of State of the lack of climate action of this cabinet. In my speech last Tuesday evening, I spoke about the climate crisis and the great, actually greatest threat to public health. The WRR report also provided some kind of analysis. I am curious about the analysis of this minister on this point, as it is crucial for the sustainability of our concern to work on this crucial part from the VWS ministry as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u92	I think this is a very creative link. Climate certainly also has a shelf life side, a stewardship side, so that appeals to me on its own. I don't know if those two have anything to do with each other. And if you could also help the climate along the line of care in the very best way, I honestly don't know either. But that the care will have to be taken into account and will participate in sustainability is, of course, one thing that is certain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u93	Well, actually, that link isn't that creative. I did not mean that the sustainability of care is also essential. I meant more that care costs are rising because of the climate crisis, because of climate change. That people die before by heat waves. That we are going to be faced, including in the Netherlands, with major problems, with water pollution, with people who die earlier as a result of air pollution. These problems are only getting bigger. The problem that I am putting down now, which is essential and has been referred back to the Council of State again today, is that this cabinet is not doing enough to prevent the 1.5 ̊C warming. The VWS Department will be billed for this, because all these people need care. The sustainability of care will also be affected by this. I'm looking for this minister's vision. From the Minister who may address his fellow minister of EZK: but Minister of EZK, if you are not going to implement those measures, I will be the one who will incur both costs and all those people and will not be able to guarantee the sustainability of care. That's the vision I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u94	I understand that, but I can't stop finding it creative. You can, of course, argue that every policy area eventually has a VWS component and that as Minister of VWS you should go into all areas. Therefore, where migration is one of the most decisive factors for our demography, the Minister of VWS must also deal with migration. Where education and training is one of the most important predictors of the scale of the concern question, the VWS Minister should therefore also be a little Minister of Education. Because what you say, climate and the measures taken or not are determining factors for the future concern question, the VWS Minister should also be a little Minister of Climate. I'm gonna turn it around. I am going to say that all colleagues in the cabinet should actually be a little Minister of VWS. Maybe we'll get back together. This is the "One Health" approach, which is increasingly being promoted internationally. It is also being promoted by the WHO. Every policy area has "something" in the field of public health. Let me compliment you on that; I would have liked to save that for later. You have raised the issue of zoonoses in every debate on corona. I think this is a good example of the "One Health" approach. Agriculture has everything to do with public health. I do not think that we are all on the same page at that point, or are ever going to end up in the same place, and that does not matter at all, but what I do share with you is the analysis that the Netherlands has to take steps at that point. That's what the Bekedam Committee's report says. You know that report very well. We have sent an initial response to that. I know that the LNV committee will soon have a technical briefing. The next cabinet will also have to come up with a real policy response to zoonoses. This is one of the examples where you see that another policy area is also very decisive for the VWS domain. This, of course, applies very strongly to agriculture. The nitrogen will also be affected by the occurrence of zoonoses. At least, that could lead to that. So what we need to do is to promote that in all policy areas there is "something" in the field of public health, the "One Health" approach. Then I very much agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u95	Maybe someday, even on zoonoses, we'll get together, you know. You never know. I'm still hopeful; that anyway. Thanks for the answer. Look, the WHO says for a reason that the greatest threat to our public health is the climate crisis. I would also like more analysis from the VWS ministry. Of course, other ministries can do more about public health. I agree with that. However, I really think it is a good thing that the VWS Ministry makes this much more part of its policy and also refers to other ministries. You've got a big problem here with the shelf life of care. The problem is only getting bigger. The longer we wait to take climate action, the more expensive it will be for "my" ministry and the harder it will be for the VWS ministry to pay for it at all and to keep people healthy. I would really like to see that view again with this outgoing minister, and otherwise perhaps in a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u96	When I hear it like that, I think: in these terms we agree. The fact that all ministers in a cabinet need to be a little Minister of Health to help prevent care from becoming overburdened in the future is a very justified point. That's actually the "One Health" approach. You can do that from education, from infrastructure, from agriculture, all to promote people's health. That is, of course, not insignificant. With this you can indeed make a very important environmental contribution to the prevention of disease. That's just true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u97	I actually wanted to hold off on the upcoming interruption, because I thought the Minister was starting another block, but since this conversation was now going on between Mr Van Esch and the Minister, I wanted to take a moment. After all, I had asked the Minister a question in the first term. I got a very nice answer to that. In fact, that is in line with what has just been said about the integrated approach to health deficits. The Minister points out that tackling poverty is actually the responsibility of the Minister for Social Affairs. Having said that, a lot of research has also been done into the first 1,000 days and how much impact that has on future health. There is something going on in another department which can also become a problem for public health, namely energy poverty. Of those who have energy poverty, 87% live in a rental house. Many of them also often live in poor rentals. The chances are very high that these people are going to burn this winter and bad, because they fear the energy bill, and are going to vent badly. This is probably going to strengthen the problems of the corona pandemic, which is already really showing increasing numbers, with that group of people who are already vulnerable. Can the Minister, together with the Minister of EZK and the Minister of SZW, see what we can do with these facts, for which an integrated approach is needed, with this dossier, which is currently in play?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u98	I understand the link Mrs Gündoğan makes here, with a not insignificant creativity, but it is actually a bit in the same vein. I hope that Mrs Gündoğan does not call on me to be a little Minister for Climate and Energy as well, but that she calls on me to work with her colleagues to invite them to be a little Minister of Health as well. Because everything that is going on in the field of poverty, whatever it is, energy poverty or whatever poverty, is playing a terrible role in public health. That's just true. People who have little to spend make different lifestyle choices. People who have little to spend often eat unhealthy, to name but a few. For many reasons, you have to want to tackle poverty, but that should be enough reason to tackle poverty. I agree on that point. The fact that we need to look at how we can get the energy bill down here now, I do not think, because that is asking me over, because that is not my portfolio, it is my policy. But the fact that we should want to tackle poverty with each other, including for public health reasons, is certainly the case. Mrs Gündoğan mentioned that programme for the first 1,000 days. That's fantastic. That way of thinking about, that way of looking at how decisive those first 1,000 days are from the moment of pregnancy to the beginning of elementary school, to how incredibly important those first 1,000 days in children's lives are, is very impressive. What we could do with it to prevent all kinds of diseases later is also very impressive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u99	Let's get this straight. I think that the Minister and I are largely in agreement, but I would like to ask the following question. I understand that this responsibility lies not primarily with this minister but with another department. However, if there is late or slow action on energy poverty in another department, especially EZK or SZW, these corona infections do end up in VWS. Even though the initiative may not lie directly with this minister; governing is forward-looking, so I ask him whether he does not want to anticipate this energy poverty from the position of VWS and care from corona with a forward-looking perspective. That is my request to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u100	Clear. Thank you. Then the theme works in the care. That has everything to do with that big theme of sustainability. Yet this deserves to be treated separately, because we should not only want to seduce anyone who wants to work in care, anyone who has the talent to work in care, anyone who has a heart for care, not only to seduce anyone who wants to work in care, but also to keep care. I would like to start by describing where we are at that point, what has succeeded but also what has failed in the past period. I shall do so briefly, because we have done so recently in a general discussion. Nevertheless, I think it is important to mention those numbers. First of all, the balance of entry and exit: how many people have joined and how many people have left in recent years? In the period 2018 to 2020, that balance is a plus of 110,000 people. It actually sounds pretty good that almost 10% more people have joined in the care. That's actually pretty good in a cabinet period. But then you have to see what's underneath. Then there is something nice to report, but also something much less beautiful. Growth is therefore more than 35,000 people per year. The influx is much higher than the outflux, fortunately, but it is true that, in addition to the fact that many people have chosen for care, and that we have been able to seduce a lot more people for care, too many people have left. If they hadn't, we'd have a much more batter balance. Then we would actually have had many more people in the care and thus fewer vacancies. The number of people who have left is slightly less gloomy than the numbers I have heard in the first term. RegioPlus's outflow study indeed shows that four out of ten employees with a patient or client-related position leave their employer within the first two years of service, but fortunately they do not leave care. Eventually, the bulk of it continues to work in the care sector. Of the people who have entered in the last two years, 10% are actually leaving care. That is 10% too much, by the way. I do not necessarily find the change of employer a positive signal either. Apparently there are employers where you would like to leave in the foreseeable future, and that is really not because the job is up, because that is nowhere. There's too much work everywhere instead of too little. In short, we really have something to do on the employers' side. How do you hold your people? I would like to mention one very nice figure. I will also add an unfortunate figure to that, but I would like to mention one very nice figure: the working satisfaction among employees has increased. You would say that the employees have been very busy and that apparently they have seen quite often cause to leave the care, but the employee satisfaction has increased very much in recent times. You can see that very specifically in nursing care, but also care-free. 67% of the employees were satisfied in, I thought, 2017 or 2018. By the end of 2020, 81% of employees were employed. That's a pretty good grade. The point is that absenteeism has also increased. That's because of corona, but not just because of it. The pressure and overload doesn't help with the absenteeism. It seems to be extremely difficult to reduce this. I think we all agree that there are a lot of differences between healthcare institutions. One care institution succeeds much better in holding people than the other care institution. Good employership is therefore important, but that is certainly not a fact in all institutions. Good employership is very different. A theme that you have had much better on the retina in recent years than the cabinet, I repeat, Mrs Ellemeet, is the issue of control. We are learning more and more how decisive the theme of control is. Some call it "autonomy," but that's more like putting yourself through the law. I don't think that's necessarily the most important thing. But control, about what your work looks like, what can and can't be done in the scale, how and how to classify schedules and what are and are not flexible and practical working hours in combination with home, is very, very, very, very decisive. There was previously a unified collaboration between the VVD and GroenLinks. Of course, that combination has already been carefully blown. Then I thought: is it really necessary that we should not impose it from the cabinet, through laws, or more binding? We shouldn't completely take out people's common sense, should we? Because it makes perfect sense for you to involve the nurses in institutions in organizing the scaling-up of care? How should we determine how institutions should do that? Surely they can do that on their own? We already have the Works Councils Act, don't we? And in institutions, do you see an advisory board of nurses come forward here and there? Nevertheless, I think you have had and still do have a point. We need to do more on that point. Mr Van Ark has already stepped up this. So that's where we've been working, including the Chief Nursing Officer. Money has been made available for this and we have also said that we need to do additional things with regard to the money that is already available for next year to ensure that we strengthen the control of people in care. That actually applies to all areas of care. All sectors are currently making plans for this. They're about recovery and control. We want to see what we can do about it next year. Although I am going to deal with all the amendments in one block, I shall now discuss Mrs Ellemeet's amendment. I don't have it here, but I'll do it out of my head. That amendment says: get on with it, on the basis of one of the proposals from the sector. The proposal is: make sure you already make 10 million available for the sector to start working on it. I leave the judgment on that amendment to the Chamber, but I do think it is important to do so. Moreover, this plan from the sector requires a great deal more, but these are quite astronomical amounts. I also have my doubts as to whether the most sensible use of the astronomical amounts is. But the 10 million that Mrs Ellemeet's amendment is asking for is also in line with what I heard in the debate here, and also in general consultation two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u101	Thank you. It is about amendment No. 34. That amendment was first of all in part No. 16 and is now part No. Thirty-four.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u102	It's from Ellemeet and De Vries, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u103	From Ellemeet and De Vries, correct. Mr Van Houwelingen, do you mind if I give Mrs Ellemeet the floor first? Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u104	That was the first comment I wanted to make. I am doing this together with my colleague, Mr De Vries, with whom I am now working on our own initiative law, which also deals with this issue. The Minister is right to say that it is really wise to step up. This is very good news. Thank you for the support of this cabinet. I also think it is fair and good that the Minister states that sometimes the Chamber sees something earlier and sharper than the cabinet. That's what we're here for, to keep each other sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u105	Sometimes it's the other way around, isn't it? That's how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u106	Who knows, I'll have to admit it once in a while. We're in a very difficult phase, in the middle of the corona crisis. We haven't quite figured it out yet. As the Minister said, absenteeism rates are extremely high; the outflow is still far too high. What is important is that we must do everything we can to ensure that not only the doctors, who are often in charge of saying that nurses and caregivers are involved and that we are involved in deciding how we are going to get through this stage and how they are going to get through this stage. Then it's about making plans for organizing the care, but also about making plans how we keep all people in care happy and healthy. Then it's about education and thinking about good scheduling. Could the Minister say a little more about how he sees the role of not only doctors but also nurses and nurses at this stage of recovery in care after corona?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u107	Quite specifically, the previous Chief Nursing Officer made the statement "not about us without us." What we are trying to keep ourselves focused on at VWS is that we look at every plan we make and every agreement we make in that way. This week, of course, we are working on how to get the ic-care in the lesser scale ready for the wave that unfortunately arrives. That wave will be much lower, but nevertheless far too high to be able to rest assured. Of course, I said to LNAZ: make sure you come up with a review of the restructuring plan. I'll say something about that in a minute, but it's about the conversation we're having. Then, of course, I also have that conversation with the V&VN, especially with the ic nurses. If the LNAZ further elaborates that plan for us and prepares a review of that plan, it is precisely the LNAZ itself, with its chairman, that makes that plan together with V&VN. They really don't do that alone. That might have happened in the past, but certainly now it doesn't just happen with the NVIC anymore, so only with the ic-doctors, but also with the nurses. So we have to use our whole way of working to make the plan together with the professionals, and indeed not only with the doctors but also with the nurses.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u108	It's really good to hear that control is high on the agenda for the Cabinet. As a forum for democracy, we consider it extremely important that the control and power should be with the staff, i.e. with the doctors, the people who actually do the work. In this connection, I have another question for the Minister. In recent decades there has been a huge scaling-up in care, so the number of hospitals has been halved, from 160 to 80 in this century. All studies also show that this increases decision-making power in the organisation. You get a bureaucracy; that's always the logical consequence of that. So this scaling up hasn't been a natural phenomenon. For example, large hospitals are paid more for the same operation as small hospitals. So in recent decades, the government has been steering on that scaling up and therefore, if you can follow me, taking power away from the workplace. What does the Minister think about that? And what's he gonna do to reverse this trend?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u109	That's a very interesting question. I could go a long way with the observation. I also think that 80 hospitals in a country like the Netherlands are still a lot, perhaps too much to get organized in a good way with sufficient quality. However, I do think that we in the Netherlands have not sufficiently incorporated into our healthcare system how we can manage that with each other. There have been many mergers that have actually come about by themselves without the patients necessarily being shy about it, without it being an express political wish or an express wish of, for example, health insurers. It was often left to the coincidence of things in such an area whether it was wise to merge. The most important thing is that there is some sort of optimization in the scale. If you go over that, that may indeed lead to further bureaucracy or more distance between the administration and the place where it really happens. Am I good for little ones? No. If you were small in the Erasmus hospital, you would never be able to deliver the quality that is needed there. That's the other side. So I think you should always make sure you keep an eye on the human size. That's one thing. In addition, you need to keep an eye on accessibility and accessibility. That was actually very much in Hijink's proposals on care for the elderly and in the proposals made by Mrs Kuik and Mrs Van den Berg for acute care. I think that, when redesigning, for example, acute care or care for the elderly, we should keep a close eye on the human dimension of things and the accessibility standard that we find logical. The organization must then follow in this and not be decisive or leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u110	I have one follow-up question. The minister says that 80 hospitals are actually quite a lot for our country. Many international studies are carried out on the average size of a hospital and when it is optimal. Jos Blank in Delft is doing a lot of research on that. I hope that I can give this suggestion to you seriously here. Now the optimal size of a hospital, when it comes to pure efficiency, is actually 250 beds. Our hospitals are on average on 500 beds because of that insane scaling-up. We even have sample hospitals of 1,000 beds. You can hardly find that anywhere else in the world. You say we have a lot of hospitals, but research doesn't really prove that. So maybe you could look into Jos Blank's studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u111	I don't know those studies. Nor will I claim that in every country I can exhaustively recount the entire healthcare system. But the hospital density in the Netherlands is very high, and the average size of a hospital in the Netherlands is very small. I'm not saying it has to be less or something. I don't really care about any of that. I think you should think it through from the content. How close do we even want an emergency service to be? And how close should a trauma center be? Can that, precisely because you want to have very high quality, also be a little further with the MICU, the ic on wheels? So I think you should think carefully about what we really want in terms of accessibility and accessibility of care for the people. That's what you want to normalize. How big a hospital is, I actually think it's a derivative of that. That's less important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u112	Well, that's interesting in itself. Hospitals in the Netherlands will soon be close, of course, because we are such a densely populated country. But just so we're clear, I'm not talking about the hospital locations. I'm talking about the administrative units. That's what it's about in that kind of econometric research, and also in the discussion about control. When they get really big, you get bureaucracy and control goes away from the workplace. That's what you see in schools, by the way. You might want to take a look at that. That's what these studies are about. Administratively, we have very large hospitals. There are only 80 of them in the Netherlands. That's actually not much at all. Well, I'll leave it at that, but that's the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u113	Let me say one thing about that, because I can see your point. If the distance between the policy makers and those who suffer from that policy on a daily basis, to put it bluntly, becomes too great, then things are not going well. So that distance shouldn't be too big. However, the absolute size of a hospital is not necessarily the most decisive factor for the sense of control or for the sense of human measure for the patients. What is actually much more important and decisive is culture. If you make a plan, are you going to make the plan and then tell people what their plan is going to be? Or do you ask people: "I want to make a plan, because I see a big problem. Are you in? Would you please think along about how to do that?"? In a very large institution where culture is, the sense of control and human measure is optimal. So there should not be such a great distance between the administration or the policy makers and the people who experience that policy. I couldn't agree more. But I do not think that the size of the institution is the most decisive factor in this. The question of culture is much more decisive. Mr. Chairman. Then I go to another point, which is very touching and which everyone has also mentioned, namely the disordered care and bureaucracy. Mr Van Houwelingen actually provided a nice little bridge. Bureaucracy is an extremely tough subject and an extremely important one. Let me be honest about that, too. I have the feeling that we have wanted to do a great deal about this in the past cabinet period, and at the same time I feel that if we call 1,000 people in the care and ask them if they have noticed enough of it, the answer is not just enthusiastic. Then the question is: why is that and how should we do it in a different way? With the programme (Ont) Regulal de Zorg we have said by sector with people from the sector themselves: what is the top ten of rules that should be removed? Then we said: if we delete those rules, it is at the level of politics, the administration, the health insurance company and so on, but look at the institution itself. So why don't you sit around the table in the setting yourself and have a scraping session?That's what we've also guided and go from the setting to see for yourself what should be deleted. That too has happened many times. There have been endless scrapings. Nor is it true that nothing has changed; on the contrary. We sent the report. I think we've deleted 121 rules. In a number of sectors it has really been possible to reduce the experienced workload. A number of institutions have done some really exciting things and in the institutions themselves the feeling is on average real that it is now much less bureaucratic than it was. But that does not mean that you can say: well, then we are a bit there; we have had the program and then it will be for the coming time. I think there are a number of things about this. Also in the new cabinet period we will have to start with ourselves. Every time we make new laws here, ask new rules, ask questions and want to know what's going on, so every time we make a responsibility, we have to realize that there's a professional on the other side of the line who has to do that. That must therefore make us modest and cautious in asking for accountability. Sometimes you can't escape that, but this is the first point. The second thing we will have to do is to look again at what is causing the most problems and what is most affected by each sector. Is it from the Ministry? Is it from the inspection? Is it bound by laws and regulations? Is it stuck with professional standards from the professions? After all, there's a lot there. Especially in everything that is said to be affected by the inspection, it is actually the maintenance of professional standards. Anything we can get down at that point, we're gonna have to do. That's at sector level. Then we really need to invite every professional organisation at institution level to go to the table and say what one is up against and where one would like to get rid of. Try to think about it: why do I have to do this administrative thing, why do I have to do it, who should do it and what would happen if I stopped doing it? That useful question should actually be put to everyone every day, but at least allow this discussion to take place in all the institutions. So we come to a new program (Ont) Regulal de Zorg, because that is the only way to get rid of those rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u114	I'll see if you've said anything about the issue of regulatory pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u115	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u116	Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV and then to Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u117	I think this is an honest self-reflection of the Minister. He says, if you ask 1,000 random care workers for this, they'll say the project was running low... what's it called?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u118	(On) Rule of Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u119	... that (Ont) Regulate the Care hasn't delivered so much. Of course, that is very sad, because the rules are the nail to the coffin of care; well, something like that. That doesn't happen every time. This was the third big project, wasn't it? Under Rutte I we had Regelarme institutions, Van Rijn had his own project and this minister had his own project, but actually there is little happening, while the nursing staff are still 35% of their time lost to administration and while the resident only comes to live there once. If you make 10% of that, you'll have 25 on every 100 employees. So we all want this so badly. My question to the Minister is, therefore, how can it be that all the proposals I am putting forward here can always count on njet. Make one rate in the neighborhood care, make one rate for the nursing homes; then the answer is always no. To what extent, after this fair self-reflection and the major projects we have had here in the Chamber over the last ten years, can I now persuade this Minister to accept proposals that are being made here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u120	Sometimes that also has to do with the fact that I just don't think the proposal is good enough. I have to be honest with you about that. Take that one rate for the neighborhood nursing. If you do that, that leads to selection, because then it is attractive for an institution to hire "easy" clients in particular and leave the difficult ones to another. Because you know you get paid on average, so the more expensive clients you spend more time on, you better leave them to someone else. That's why I think one rate is wrong. The same applies to one rate in nursing care. That's what you suggested. That's why I think that's wrong. I think, however, that in the way in which the indication is made, you should see how to do it at least, but really the least bureaucratic way. There's definitely a profit to be made. Also in the way transfer takes place, for example in a nursing home, incredibly much profit can be made. There are nursing homes that have sat around the table with themselves and have said: why do we actually do it with so much paper, and can't that be much less? And: what actually goes wrong and who does it have to do with and why? Transfer is very important, by the way, that everyone wants, but why do you have to write a lot about it? Those nursing homes have been able to make a lot of profit. So I find it very fascinating to think why, if you do it the way we did it, it doesn't lead to the experienced result on the workplace. That's a quest for me that I haven't quite figured out yet. In particular, the question then is how else to organize it in the next cabinet period to do what everyone wants. Because there is no official, no minister, no alderman and no caretaker who rides his bike in the morning and thinks "mmm, I'm going to think of some administrative burdens today," but it happens anyway. It is a kind of self-running baking flour that is very difficult to reduce. So if you want something with it and if you really want to reduce it, and we want it, you will have to do it very, very, very consciously at the level of legislation and regulation, of course, we are of that, often at the level of professional standardisation and at the level of all the institutions themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u121	I'm so sorry about this. I come up with two subjects: one rate for community care and one rate in nursing homes, and then they are basically kicked out by the Minister. I think that's a big problem, too. For example, look at the nursing homes. 164,000 re-indications are made there in a year. That's what people are doing administratively. I understand that if you went cold from one moment to the next at one rate, a run would come on lighter patients. I understand that, too. But on the other hand, you could say that azzp 5, as we call it technically, is actually already a very heavy patient, who should be able to be admitted anyway. So why is it wrong if there could be a run on the zzp 5, the lighter patient of the worst? You could also opt for an ingrowth period. What I find so regrettable is that when concrete proposals are made, they are immediately trampled on. It is never said once: yes, actually there is something in it, we actually have to get rid of the 164.000 re-indications and actually we have to go and see if we can't do that. Another issue I have raised here is that many employees work part-time because they do not want to lose their healthcare allowance. In the Minister's replies I was referred to a Final Report Alternatives to the Supplementary Scheme. This is about the abolition of care payments, a basic income, the abolition of tax rebates and the longer phasing out of the child-related budget, but of course that is not what I asked for. What I asked for is not in that report that was in the written reply. Here's what I was thinking. If the maximum income for the care allowance is now for a single €31,138 and for someone with a partner €39,979, what would happen if it became €40,000 and €50,000? How many of those part-time care workers, who are mainly women and who bring the second income into the family, would just work more hours? Instead of four hours, they might be working for 14 hours if that were the case. That's the question I asked. I'm just a simple MP; I can't figure that out. I'm very good at math, but I can't figure that out. So I'm asking the Minister to investigate this. What happens if we raise that maximum income limit of the surcharges? How much does that cost? I know that the Minister will probably not be able to send us this in a note on an afternoon-to-day basis, but we need those people. It's such a shame when people only work four hours or eight hours when they actually want more but don't want to lose their care allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u122	Two topics. First of all, I'll deal with the first. If that's true... If it were true that Mrs Agema was making a brilliant proposal and that I would be heedlessly ignorant of it, I would find it very right that Mrs Agema should make the point she has just made. But of course it isn't. This is my fourth budget debate and we are now even having this debate for the fourth time. I have already sent a very comprehensive letter about the implications of one rate in nursing care or one rate in community care. By the way, that letter was mainly about allzzp's flattening to one rate in nursing care. My point is that this has such a negative effect on behaviour in the incentive effect of the system, that it simply leads to waiting lists and inaccessible care for the most serious clients. Of course, you shouldn't want to do that. This is without prejudice to the need to continue looking for all the proposals that could help to reduce administrative burdens, just not at any price. If, in society's view, it ultimately leads to a worse result, then you shouldn't want it. What you have to do is to make the indication as little bureaucratic as possible. Then there is the second question. It's about the childcare allowance. You say you're a simple MP. I'm a simple... About surcharges, sorry, about the supplement system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u123	Care allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u124	Look, it is an effect of a progressive tax system in which you have higher rates each time and then a surcharge system that corresponds to that, that marginal pressure increases when you earn more. You'll have less money per extra-earned euro. If that goes very much rücksichtslos, namely that you only get a supplement to amount X, that would be the same supplement each time. If you're going to make more money, you can actually go down in pay. Fortunately, this is only the case in a number of situations. But you can sometimes have real bad luck with the border where you just no longer qualify for extra money, sorry, for the extra charge you still have if you earn just a little less. That is indeed the effect of regulating the system. The point is that this is not just going to be solved, so not without it costing a lot of extra or without it leading to a huge redistribution and a huge income effect. That debate is far beyond my head, too. This is something that can be much better debated with your Chamber, either by the tax authority or by the Minister for Social Affairs, when it comes to income figures. Where we do find each other, the question is what we can do to ensure that people are more encouraged to work full-time or to work more in healthcare. With only a few tenths more in the working time factor, you also make sure that a lot more people are actually available for care. For this we have a number of beautiful, at least I think, projects in the pipeline that will help people to calculate this through the part-time calculator. We'll see what it would get you extra if you started working an extra day. In that case, it must be taken into account what this means for the sum of the surcharges and what that means for net revenue. So what are people under the line? That's very important for people. Now they often think, before they take the step, that it might be very little for them or that they might even go backwards, because they are losing a certain supplement. But it turns out very often that is not so bad. That's why you need to discuss and calculate it properly in advance. So to enable employers and employees to have that conversation, we have the very nice project of the foundation Het Potentieel Gakken. I think you've heard of that. This is one of that foundation's projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u125	I have made a lot of concrete proposals when it comes to rules and things. We are now talking briefly about one rate for community care and one rate for nursing homes and doing something about the maximum income when it comes to part-time workers. Those proposals are all being smashed up. I think that is actually part of the problem, which is why the regulatory burden is so high. I would like to come back to that one rate in the nursing homes. The minister just said I want to smash thezzp's. He says this is very much at the disadvantage of the most horrible patients. With that, he's just trying to create imagery. The Minister's letter is long, but such a very good proposal is actually only broken with a stretched leg. It's 164,000 re-indications, while being admitted to the nursing home must already be a very heavy patient. You already have to meet a lot of criteria in order to be able to be admitted at all. So when the minister says: yes, but it is at the expense of heavier patients, he has a problem especially when it comes to waiting lists. But that really is a different problem than that one rate. If the Minister maintains that 164,000 re-indications should be done in a year, then he shouldn't be surprised that those people 40% of their time, 35% of their time, that's just one example, I've spent so much time in their work on rules and accountability and a very big overhead. So my heart cry to the minister is... I don't know if he's staying in a next cabinet, but let him give it to the next minister that we've now had a big project three years in a row when it comes to reducing rules and that it actually didn't work out. A future minister will simply have to be more open to good ideas, whether they come from the coalition or from the opposition, otherwise it will remain so. So we don't get that, if you reduce the rules from 35% to 10%, that you have 25 extra per 100 employees and with that, without having to add money, really solves the human problems in the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u126	It is quite tempting to discuss a number of subjects in the speech. Let me unpack one and then see if I can agree with Mrs Agema. First of all, I have to come back to that one rate. You've put that forward several times, and I've really graduated from it. I remember that it was a rather strong letter, but that is also because I wanted to tell you very thoroughly what the impact would be. That has nothing to do with destroying an idea, but that has to do with the appreciation of that idea and seeing what its effect might be. Well, that's our job, isn't it, before we come up with an idea that might look good. In this case, it really doesn't work out well if you did. It's always, when it comes to indication or funding systems, an exchange. How exactly do you want that to meet the actual care gravity on the one hand? If you wanted to do that all the way to military precision, it would lead to a very complicated system. So you always want to simplify that. But if you simplify it too far, you get all kinds of selection mechanisms in that reality that you don't want. That goes for nursing care, but also for community care. So you're always gonna have to make a difference in rates, unless you choose what Mrs. Kuik has argued for a number of times, and that's population benefit. But you can only do that again, if you do what Mr Hijink says, namely that you also really let one provider per neighborhood be on the move. Then you can just do population benefits based on demographic factors. Then you say: this is the bag of money you have; do nice things with it for the neighborhood. It's possible. But these are all different types of funding systems, and if you mix them together, you get big risks. I have just gone into the substance of this. Why I agree with you is this. I don't know who's gonna be my successor. Maybe it's me, maybe it's not; I just don't know. If you hear more about it, I ask you to call me; then I know. I don't know. But what I do know is that my successor, whether I am myself or not, will have to work with the programme (Ont)regel de Zorg. You are absolutely right that I was not the first to try. My predecessors have also tried to do the same, and in fact I think that the sum of those three attempts is inadequate. The best proof of that is the five-minute rule. When I got rid of him, I got a text from Van Rijn, who said: yes, but I've already abolished it. And I know he wasn't the first to bring that up either. So obviously it can be that tough, and that's how tough these things really are. In short, what I'm going to give you is: get on with it, and be open to all the good ideas of opposition and coalition, and really learn the lessons of the past few years. They indicate how tough it is, and how incredibly thorough and German and solid you will have to adapt it, if you want to achieve anything at all in the experience of reduced regulation pressure in people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u127	Nor has this minister abolished the five-minute registrations, because he has not gone to one rate in home care. Let's face it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u128	No, I did not go into risk selection in home care, leaving the most difficult clients to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u129	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs De Vries van de VVD, Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA. And then I'm gonna suspend for lunch. I do that because I get some apps from people who think: this is a natural moment. After lunch, we will continue with the coronavaria and the amendments, which I think we can deal with briefly. But first, Mrs De Vries of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u130	Fair self-reflection is of course very beautiful. Big words and promises about control pressure are of course also very nice. However, I agree with Mrs Agema of the PVV that we have not really made much progress. And I am always like: let's add butter to the fish. We've already, I believe, done a few arm-prints with the summer recess ministry on the annual responsibility for the first-line coalition. I have the feeling that there are no problems if you really want to apply fewer rules there, but that there seems to be some kind of unwillingness. I would like to challenge the Minister to just start and pick it up, especially in this practical case. And just make sure there's less rules there. I feel like there's a little reluctance to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u131	There's no such unwillingness. Let's go drill this right out. The first point is that you have asked questions about this regularly. The CDA did the same, as did the SGP. This annual responsibility is about the social accountability of public funds in healthcare institutions. When the Wtza was treated in 2020, there was unanimous agreement on an annual responsibility obligation for all healthcare providers in principle. An amendment was adopted, also broad, which also made small healthcare providers accountable. Is that crazy? No, that makes sense, because it's public money, so you have to answer for it. But the question is, how? What was originally made for this, the first concept discussed with the sector, was, in particular, too administratively burdensome for those small first-line providers. Mrs De Vries is quite right about that. Mr Van Ark has been working on this very intensively. And what it says now is far less incriminating than it was before. It's a financial responsibility. That makes sense to me; it's about public money. It is an audit report for suppliers with a turnover of more than EUR 12 million, which we do not roll out of our seats, I think, and a very limited questionnaire. If you look at what that means about financial taxation, you will see that it has been reduced by 90% compared to the initial design for small suppliers. According to the ATR methodology, the actual burden on small healthcare providers in the annual accounting is on average two hours. Surely you can't say it's a huge administrative burden? I think this is a good example that when we make rules, we must have a clear eye that it leads to administrative burdens. If you want accountability, you'll always have to think about whether you can do it in such a way that it's as minimally burdensome as possible for the practice. I really think that's how we did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u132	I acknowledge that a step has been taken. Absolutely. But if you add it up every time there are two hours extra and if you see what rules we all make in this house, then it really means that we have to deliver bizarre amounts of information. The Advisory Committee on Control Pressure also indicated that the justification of all information to be provided was not provided. Use and necessity are not clearly substantiated. That would be the first thing I want to know. I also think that this should be discussed again. There is not only the obligation to account for the year, because all kinds of lists of requests for information from the CBS, the Central Bureau of Statistics, are now being requested. That is not what the law was about, but it is now being brought back together in one package to primary care. I would really like to challenge the Minister to look again with the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review and with the First Line Coalition how it can be further reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u133	Yes. Let me put it this way. Mr Van Ark met with the sector on this subject for about three months. That's pretty intense already. She's come up with something that's my observation that's really the minimum. But Mrs De Vries says: I do not know whether I agree with her. I think it is up to me to prove that it is indeed the most minimal. But I would also ask Mrs De Vries to acknowledge that the law simply states that small parties must also be held accountable. Is that crazy? No, it's collective money. It is public money and can the most minimal public accountability be expected, please? I think so. Then it is up to me to prove that it is indeed the most minimal, given that the law stipulates that small suppliers will also have to justify themselves. Or we need to change the law and say: in the case of small suppliers, we don't really care how public funds are spent. But I don't think you do either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u134	Let me say in turn: it is also a school for me. I did not do that, but I am no longer going to go into the next laws and all the amendments that are tabled to them with regard to what the amendment says, namely that it leads to minimal increase in regulatory pressure. I just don't think this is minimal anymore. In my view, then, it is up to the Minister to indicate what it means in concrete terms when such an amendment is before us. The aim of the amendment is fine, but I believe that the Minister also has the opportunity to exclude sectors and sectors through a general measure of governance. The Minister must not hide behind it. He does have potential.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u135	Yes, but I don't want to, because then you would indeed say to part of the concern: you don't have to answer anymore. And I find that very strange, because anyone who uses public money has to answer for it. Only Mrs De Vries has the demand that it should be done in the most minimal way possible. Well, I'm going to prove to Mrs. De Vries that it's the most minimal way. I think that's my game for the coming time. So that's what I'm gonna do. But I'm not gonna say you don't have to answer. I'd find that really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u136	I would like to add a few words to Mrs De Vries' speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u137	That's what I was afraid of. That happens to me too often!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u138	Mrs De Vries and I have often been in this together. Indeed, the Minister has the possibility to exclude sectors by general measure of governance. I have done that law-making myself, and I am absolutely in favour of anyone who gets money from the public being answerable. However, I believe that the general measure of governance also offers the possibility of making demands on the way in which it is done and the extent to which it is done. The CDA is much more concerned about what I call care cowboys. They also deal with real estate and sometimes have very small businesses. We are therefore much more concerned about this than about general practitioners, physiotherapists and dietists. I would therefore like to endorse Mrs De Vries' speech on this point. This was actually one interruption, I understand. Let me now turn to my next comment on the regulatory burden in general. I have indicated in my speech that 40% of working time is spent on administration. Mr Agema just said that it is a third in many institutions. First of all, this is due to inefficient systems. Secondly, it is because sometimes data are kept which are not necessarily necessary. As an example, I mentioned a nephrologist, who says he knows enough with 10 indicators, while there are 50 indicators to be kept. Thirdly, there are no automatic couplings. Fourthly, meaningful data are not always recorded, while on the other hand a lot of process data is recorded. I would like to ask the Minister what he really needs to do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u139	Well, what we have to do is to face the full breadth of it: the way rules are created and the way rules are experienced in practice leads to a combination of all unintended effects. I'm really convinced of that. They are mechanisms that did not aim or aimed at creating administrative burdens for people. There is often a need for accountability. That is the example just mentioned by Mr Van den Berg and Mr De Vries. Often there is a need for accountability behind the demand in laws and regulations. Sometimes quality standards are the question of the background to bureaucratic burdens. Every time we want to see accountability here or say from quality standards: you have to prove that this or that is in order, that always means that a professional has to check something somewhere. So it's very good that you realize that, when you make rules and do quality standards, this always leads to administrative burdens. The question is to what extent you think that's justified. What is a great deal of reason for administrative burdens is all that has to do with the miserable data link, not being sync with the digital systems that are used in healthcare. That's what we have to do. You are a great supporter of the Wegiz and everything related to it. By the way, this plays a wider role in the Chamber. We just have to get to work on that, because if you organise that properly, it will help to reduce administrative burdens. A huge culprit is the professional standard. When professionals sit together and think together about what quality standards are the very best care, a lot of bureaucratic burden comes out of that. The inspection can then not escape to maintain it. It says: 'Isn't it in the quality standards that this is written down by the profession itself, can I see how I can test it in practice?' This is a response from the inspection that simply has to be done, because professional quality standards are always the basis for inspection supervision, but always lead to bureaucratic burdens. What I think we will have to do is, and with sectors around the table, for the next cabinet period, to examine with sectors what rules can be removed and what can really be reduced, and be very disciplined in the political debate and, as Mrs De Vries just said, to look even more critically at every law on what administrative burden comes out of it. That's right. That's what we have to do. Thirdly, we must really want each institution to have a conversation with professionals themselves about what is actually the background to rules. Why does he have to? Who's it from? What would go wrong if we stopped doing that? I see that as the only way to reduce regulatory pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u140	The CDA is a strong supporter of very strict requirements upon accession. We have tabled an amendment to the Wtza, which, in any case, should also apply to all the smaller organisations currently in existence. It's still easier to become a care facility in this country than to start a snack bar. That remains critical as far as we are concerned. Besides, you need well-educated people. Maybe we can take a closer look at that, too. But does the Minister agree with the CDA that you should actually reverse it for the rest and look more at results? Now there are more and more smaller professions that all set their own quality frameworks. That doesn't make it any easier for the inspection either. In order to organise a learning culture together, we must ensure that we have results on these and those points and can compare them. Corona has shown that a huge amount of data is available. So you do that in that way, instead of everyone setting their own quality framework for each part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u141	In general, I can follow the direction that Mrs Van den Berg has outlined here. However, I am going to predict that we will occasionally remind each other of this part of the budget debate. Perhaps that is very disciplined, a bit as Mrs De Vries says. You should not completely rule out that in six months you have a brilliant idea that would really help you with quality standards, quality improvements or the ability to justify or so. Mrs De Vries then says: I had intended never to add bureaucracy again, and this is really bureaucracy, because if you want to know this, someone has to go rotting somewhere. So I say yes, but there is always a certain trade-off in standardisation and standardisation on the one hand and bureaucratic administrative burden on the other. That's always a consideration you have to make in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u142	Mrs Van den Berg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u143	Is the Minister prepared to make the following commitment? Can he say: if we had to build it from scratch, we would want to do so as follows? Then we can see how we can get from a to b.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u144	That's a very broad question. If this is to be about all areas of care, it is at least a very significant administrative burden for the Ministry of Health. Actually, I'd like to make it more precise. Let us keep in mind how we can do it in such a way that it leads to as little bureaucratic burden as possible on healthcare institutions on all the routes we are going to deal with in the future, whether it is about the revision of acute care and care for the elderly or the Wegiz, the data sharing that we want to digitize. I think I understand what you're looking for, which is that if you add something, you have to clean up everything that exists until now. If you don't, things are gonna pile up. I understand that very well. Let us keep ourselves sharp here in this house, so that we do not become the source of administrative burdens ourselves. I think that's a very useful exercise. I am sure that you are going to keep me on top of that and that Mrs De Vries is going to keep you on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u145	That is a pity, because it will only be the legislation we are talking about. In addition, all kinds of health offices make demands, municipalities make all kinds of demands, health insurers make all kinds of demands and the professional groups themselves make demands. I think that this really needs an integrated approach. Otherwise, in ten years' time, we will have to say that we have gone from 40% to 36% administrative burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u146	First of all, I want to say about the 40% and 36%: I don't believe that at all. I know all these studies, but they're always such experience studies. And I'm like, "Who did you talk to? A lady from the administration?" Of course, it's not really the case that if you're just a nurse, you're indeed 40% of your time behind your desk, unless you happen to have taken on a lot of administrative tasks in the context of task redeployment. So I always take that 40% with a grain of salt, but it's too much. It certainly is. It's incriminating and it has to be less. That's right. I would actually recommend a different approach. You are actually saying: let us harmonise all the requirements on the buyer side, for example. I think that's unworkable. In terms of design, you'll be years before you finish that. Then you probably get that people want customization and you probably think so too. Honestly, I wouldn't look that way. I would actually recommend a very different type of process, namely that we do what Mrs De Vries says we are going to do in all the laws and regulations. That's one. Two. Then we will look at the start of the next cabinet period by sector of which rules you could ignore. How can the rules be reduced? Tell us what to delete. This is about rules imposed by us, by health insurance companies or by health offices. Just say what you want to delete, and we'll look at that very seriously. That's the second one. The third is that each institution should have the same conversation at its own team table. Where would you get off? What rules do you run into? Who do they want them from anyway? Why are they even here? That's a third way to deal with it. Finally. I think I'll be nearest to you when it comes to data sharing and that Wegiz. This concerns a number of forms of data sharing. The sector must achieve a complete set of data sharing forms. In that law, you can encourage the obligation to share data digitally. You can then establish a set that is registered with the Quality Institute, the Healthcare Institute. That set actually determines the language to be used, with which indicators, in the digital data exchange. I am sure that you will be visited by various sub-sectors, professions or clubs, which say: can I please be customised on that point? Then you must be so strong as to say: no, you must not, because if I do, it will lead to an enormous increase in bureaucratic burdens. We need a little more standardisation now and then, in order to reduce bureaucratic burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u147	Thank you. We have not yet reached the end of the Prime Minister's first term, although the Minister had promised me that. But "it takes two to tango," said the minister. That's kind of right, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u148	We are going to suspend until 3 p.m. and then we will continue with the rest of the Prime Minister's first term, namely corona, varia and the appreciation of the amendments. That doesn't take a lot of time. Then we'll go to the Secretary of State.
