ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the debate on the news that the army is gathering information about Dutch society. I would like to welcome the Minister. I would like to begin by giving the floor to Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am addressing four points which I believe should be discussed today: the request for assistance, the basis, the role of the minister and the GDPR. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, it has always been up to me, as spokesman for the Defence Department, to say clearly that we support military forces and at the same time that we can properly monitor when things are not going well so that we can learn from them. We are here for the second time in the Chamber in a short time to address the cabinet on the violation of the law, which was done first and then thought only, from my point of view. We had the NCTV out of line, and now we also have the LIMC. With the Land Information Manoeuvre Centre, the LIMC, Defense has deployed a military operation on Dutch territory under the guise of an experiment, gathering information about Dutch citizens. It was analysed and used to provide assistance to the civil services of the government. I say "just like that" because it seems that there was no basis for the deployment of Defence on Dutch territory. It seems that this was also done without a call for assistance, which is quite crucial if you do so. It also seems that the minister was only informed about the operation within her own ministry after NRC's journalism research work. There are a lot of questions to answer. That is why I originally requested this debate. Mr. Chairman. In the letter the Minister writes: "there was no basis for these activities of the LIMC, in so far as they are not part of the military's own deployment and conservation tasks." Has the government, as commander of the armed forces, made a request to the Minister to turn a political task into a military task? What activities of the LIMC are not part of the military's own deployment and conservation tasks? Were these activities required by law by the armed forces for assistance? Does the Minister admit that, without a legal mandate, the military has carried out three core tasks, namely disaster and crisis assistance? If not, what happened? The Minister states that no mandate has been given for data processing which is not part of the military's own mission, but has it given a mandate for the dissemination of reports to civil services? Mr. Chairman. I like to zoom in on the goal of the LIMC. This was to contribute to civil authorities during the COOVID-19 crisis. To this end, all available and relevant information from open and semi-closed sources on the COOVID-19 crisis was used to fuel military and civilian decision-making processes with insight and, where possible, an action perspective. I understand you can think of this under the guise of an experiment as an exercise. But if this is actually done then, as far as I am concerned, there is no longer an experiment. This is as if the Land Force Command ordered unsolicited to support the ME on the Malieveld with a bunch of experimental tanks, and then to call the security regions to explain how demonstrations can be better dealt with. The metaphor is important here, because the armed forces are not used to using information against their own people. Two points on this. I would ask the Minister to clarify the facts. Has the Minister explicitly authorised the CLAS for the establishment of the LIMC, and has the purpose of the LIMC been discussed? If not, was it not informed of the activities of the LIMC and the purpose of the LIMC until six months after the establishment of the LIMC? These are important questions. That is why I ask the Minister for a precise answer. Mr. Chairman. From the Defence Memorandum 2018 and later in the Defence Vision 2035, information-driven action is presented as one of the three core features of the military. However, it is not clearly explained what this is exactly, and especially not what it is not. Can the Minister undertake to draw up a policy vision on information-driven action and to forward it to the Chamber? If we involve the IGO at the LIMC, then we can only conclude that Defense has flown off the bend at 200 km/h, without any idea of the speed of advice, let alone the speed limit? What about the implementation of the GDPR recommendations? What's going to happen to the data collected? At what time will they be destroyed? Finally, Mr President. What's next? The Minister states that the activities of the LIMC concerning the collection and analysis of information have been discontinued. Is this still the case? And what other activities does the LIMC carry out, on what basis and with what mandate? I look forward to the Minister's answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you. I call Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. For those of you who didn't know, the VVD loves DOD very much. Where others stop, Defense continues, is right to be the motto. But loved ones also tell each other the truth once in a while. I think this should be done in this debate today. I have both understanding and criticism and questions. Let me start with the concept, and yet with a typical concept of defence: situational awareness. This is crucial because conflicts are increasingly about information and disinformation. So there is no doubt that our armed forces in the war arena must be able independently to map and monitor hostile groups and friendly groups. But that is not what this debate is about at all. This debate is not about a battle arena somewhere in Afghanistan or Srebrenica, about which we have just received an impressive briefing. This is not about a military but a medical-civil combat arena, so in the civilian environment, the normal society in which we all live. And when the army acts there, something's going on. That is precisely why it is legally and politically vulnerable for the army to collect data from Dutch people independently, so autonomously, quite simply, on its own. There was therefore an inadequate mandate, to put it legally. Military intervention in the civilian sphere without a mandate is outside the democratic rule of law. The army is not allowed to act on its own. The superintendent is here. The constitutional authority is the government. The government must also be able to answer. That is precisely why there must always be an adequate mandate, and there was no such mandate. These are tough words, I understand, but I would add something, namely that, as far as we are concerned, the aim must be once and for all. It was unlawful, careless and thoughtless what happened here. The question is also: is the legal framework for collecting information sufficiently clear from now on? Just in the battle arena I was just talking about, you have rules of engagement, but the question is whether it is so clear when it comes to information collection. So that's a question for the Minister. If that is not clear, I would like to hear how that will be made clear. I believe there's been an interruption, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u5	That's right, there's been an interruption by Mrs. Leijten. No, you don't. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u6	Then I have a lot of questions about the facts. When did the data protection officer's concerns come to the Legal Affairs Directorate, the Commander of the Armed Forces and the Minister? Because it has taken a very long time before it has actually stopped, namely until the publication in NRC Handelsblad. That certainly raises questions about what is called "the discussion with lawyers" in the documents. Well, that appeals to me as a lawyer. So I'm gonna watch what happened here. Then I imagine that I myself was a lawyer there, was working there and how that would go. Someone's bringing that up. The timeline states that on August 26, 2020, the Commander of the Land Force decided that the distribution of LIMC reports should only be allowed internally with the Defense Department. So then there was something going on. But why was that decision made? Was this based on internal legal criticism and, if so, on whom? Who was informed of this decision and when? Was that the CDS, the minister? These are questions which, as far as I am concerned, really need to be answered in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u8	I actually have two questions for the VVD. How do you assess the story of the facts we've been given? Do you think that's complete?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u9	That was question one. Well, I thought that was a little short. Otherwise, I wouldn't have asked the questions I just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u10	Question two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u11	Well, it seems to me that the Legal Affairs Department has raised the red flag several times and that everyone has thought: let them wave nicely. Which brings me to the question: who's in charge? I will also ask the Minister that question later. But the final question here is the following. Mr Van Wijngaarden says on behalf of the VVD 'this was once, but never again', but the Minister wants to continue with the LIMC. With what mandate? To what end? Shouldn't we just say here today: it was once, but never again and the plug goes out too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u12	The fact that the military must be able to collect information, for example in a battle arena, is certain for me. That can really make the difference between death and life, between safety and insecurity. I was just referring to Srebrenica. If only we had a better information position there. I wish we had. It is therefore clear to me that the collection of information by the army can be extremely useful. That is precisely in the information-driven society in which we are in an essential capacity that the army must have. So, no, we shouldn't stop doing that. But what I do say is that, in a democratic rule of law, the supreme power is only in one place. That's right here. That's the boss. That is something that is being held accountable here. So it cannot be that outside the normal official lines, which also go to this minister, it is decided to collect information about Dutch citizens. That is why I say that something went very wrong. That can never happen that way again, as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u13	I don't know if the analysis is correct that if you had a form of a LIMC with Srebrenica, it wouldn't have happened. I think that is a very dangerous historical parallel, or perhaps a dangerous justification for the data hunger we are seeing. Maybe we'll judge that differently, too. But where's the combat situation here? Then who's the enemy? We're in peace. It's about its own people. The army has set up a chain of command as if its own people were the enemy. So what's that army's perspective of action supposed to be? The LIMC has been set up without a mandate, which you also say without political approval, without us knowing it and without society knowing it. And then say, "I'm sorry now, so let's just let it exist." Then where's the enemy, I'd like to ask the VVD. Then who is the enemy in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u14	When I hear Mrs Leijten like that, it seems as if we are enemies of each other, but I do not think that is the case. I think that we are not opposed to each other here, but to each other, and that we both think that what has happened here is not possible, namely that the army is going to collect this kind of information on its own without a mandate. That really shouldn't have happened that way. We're very clear about that. I do not think we have a difference of opinion in that regard either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u15	You also came to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u18	Oh, no, I'm sorry. I have one final question for the Minister. It's about the outside information from the department. Initially, the Land Information Manoeuvre Centre was justified: then we can predict peaks in the corona crisis. Later this vanished from communication. Is that argument completely gone? So was this just too fast, and in that sense premature, communication from the ministry afterwards? I'd love to hear that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u19	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Fritsma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last year, several people and organisations suddenly came under the scrutiny of Defence, from the aforementioned Land Information Manoeuvre Centre, to be precise. This centre collected information about Dutch society on a large scale. It would include the yellow hoes, Viruswanzing and jensen.nl. But also statements by politicians, including my group chairman Geert Wilders, would have been gathered. All that information ended up in a computer system that needed to predict automated social unrest. It was focused on the corona crisis, we read, but the center was also meant to experiment with information-driven action. We now know that this experiment has failed miserably. Defence has simply gone beyond its bounds, because the necessary legal basis for this project was completely lacking. What this military unit did had nothing to do with the core business of Defense. Nor has any action been taken at the request of civil authorities. Nor did the military branch fall under the Intelligence and Security Services Act. And what remains is a frankly shady situation. That shady situation lasted no less than eight months. Mr. Chairman. The PVV first of all wonders how it is possible that the Minister had no control over this for so long. The Minister indicated earlier that she was aware of the existence of the LIMC, but that she did not know exactly what dates were collected. That is painful, because it was clear from the beginning that this was a sensitive operation. Of course, it should never have taken place under the radar of the Minister in charge. I'm afraid that's what happened here. Can the Minister comment on her own direction, or the lack of it? Mr. Chairman. When the press came out of what this military unit was doing, they were in an acute phase of denial within the Defense Department. In a response to the NRC, the defense stated that all this can be done, even without a mandate. There would have been no legal barrier to the collection of the information, even if reports from this military unit were shared externally. That's what it says literally in the said newspaper. Of course, such a reaction should never have seen the light, because it doesn't make any sense. So I want to know from the Minister why he spoke so uglyly for her turn with this reaction. At least the reaction could have been: we're going to investigate this. I would point out in abundance that, of course, it is not good for confidence if everyone has to start doubting what Defence brings out in the media or otherwise. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I assume that in answering all the questions, the Minister will also take a small word of apology to those whose expressions have thus been collected and processed without a legal basis. She doesn't have to name everyone, because then we might be here for a while, but in general, excuses are of course more than justified. I can leave it at that in the first place, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u22	When the lockdown started last year in March, our country was in crisis and I think it was in shock. While we sat at home and watched television with images of empty squares and crowded hospitals, we held our breath. But not the army. It came out of the starting blocks and founded the LIMC, a service that was going to spy on its own people as is customary for a foreign mission. In foreign missions, that information and intelligence collection are used to map the corridors of the enemy. In this way, the military mission can arrange its protection if something arises among the civilian population. The Land Information Manoeuvre Centre, the LIMC, was set up without a mandate, without the Minister's knowledge, and is acting in complete violation of the fundamental principles of our rule of law. Data were collected from individuals and those data were also shared. 80 reports were written. The goal is completely unclear. Because who exactly is the enemy here that needs to be mapped out? What exactly was the mission to act if that enemy had been mapped out? I ask the Minister to give clear answers to this. Before the summer of last year, the Ministry of Defence raises legal questions about the information that the LIMC obtains. Those were questions about this espionage being allowed. At the end of the summer it was decided not to share any more reports outside of Defense, because sharing personal data of people is not allowed, so was the judgment of Legal Affairs. But the collection of that data went on. On 15 November last year the NRC published an extensive reconstruction on the creation and work of the LIMC. It's a reconstruction that even the supervisor is involved in. De Telegraaf also publishes two days later about another intelligence service that spies on dubious grounds abroad. Why does it take 12 days after the publication in the NRC for the Minister to be briefed on the substance? Doesn't she read the papers? Isn't there a newspaper reading at the Ministry? Or were those publications in the newspaper just not seen as important? Were it the parliamentary questions of the SP and D66, which actually forced the minister to receive a briefing? And why did it take five months for those questions to be answered? Mr. Chairman. Last Friday we received a factual account and a reconstruction of the minister. I ask her if she takes the data hunger of the armed forces seriously at all. I ask her whether she takes us as a Chamber and therefore also society seriously, because this is of course not a fact-finding report. There are all kinds of moments missing when the lawyers at the ministry have been waving the red flag. Can the Minister send all legal advice, memos, notes and other documents from the Legal Directorate on the LIMC to the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. Without mandate, without legal guarantees, without political decision, the Dutch defence has decided to spy on the Dutch civilian population as if they were the enemy. This is unbelievable. Why does the Minister get past decisions like this? Who's in charge here, at the Ministry, but also in the country? On 27 November the Minister stopped the work of the LIMC and today the SP thinks that the plug should be removed. A little guarantee of this gross violation of the fundamentals of our rule of law cannot be repaired. I assume that today the Minister will decide to completely dismantle the LIMC and have all the collected and shared data destroyed. Any other outcome can't be possible today. If we go through with this, we'll legitimize what happened here and what happened here is unprecedented, I just described it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u23	Thank you. There is a question for you from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u24	This is a very clear statement by Mrs Leijten van de SP. I can also imagine that from a certain political spectrum. My question is: what would Mrs Leijten suggest? Because the digital world is, of course, something that poses a great deal of danger. We are also both part of the new Committee on Digital Affairs, which has not come for nothing. So let's say that this part, this institute, would disappear, how would DOD have to operate in that dangerous digital world? Could Mrs Leijten say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u25	First, we need to ask ourselves whether the DOD has a role in this. We've already got the STUD and the AIVD that can do it. The moment they say they need support from the Defense Department, an application must be made. You don't have to build a whole center for that. That's really my analysis. In the discussion about hybrid warfare that we see when we go on missions, which we probably judge differently, we have often asked whether the data analysis you use there is necessary. But here the whole military structure is actually being used as if it were a mission abroad, while this was an emergency in its own country. I have also been reading back about the support, which, of course, has also been provided by the Defense Department in that first shock phase, where they have been helping with the coordination, for example, of the patient spread. But I read in that that has been a division of a completely different part of the armed forces and has nothing to do with the data of the LIMC. So we're perfectly capable of appealing to the Defense Department. They also have one of these key tasks, namely assistance in disaster situations. We don't have to throw that away at all. But I would say, precisely from the perspective that we are being warned of the huge data hunger of the government, that we do not want to go into a permanent task of the Defense Department to help collect that data. We have the STIVD and the AIVD for that and we already have enough discussions about whether that is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u26	Thank you. Mr Van Wijngaarden also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u27	In itself, the SP and the VVD are the same, namely that the LIMC has stopped collecting data. There was also simply no mandate, that was never given. So what Mrs Leijten is asking here can't be, because that's already happened. So does she mean to say that the proposal or the Minister's communication "we are going to include it in the Defence Catalogue so that it can only be requested with a proper legal mandate" should be omitted? Is that the proposal? I'm just gonna ask you to get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u28	I really think you should say, "We're gonna line this up." We learn from it, we don't do this again, the Land Information Manoeuvre Centre, monitoring sentiments in the population. Mr Fritsma's list was right about the people who were being followed. But we have also seen that this other intelligence service, which operates abroad, was doing exercises with a book by one of the group chairmen of this Chamber as teaching material. That's totally bizarre, too. That was not Mr Wilders' book, or Jesse Klaver's economics. Why should the LIMC still be there, with soldiers with a lot of knowledge behind computers, without requests? I think you should just say, "Let's get rid of that." If the necessity is there, because the STIVD, the AIVD and the NCTV can't handle it, the armed forces can always jump in. But we shouldn't operate in the Netherlands like we were on a military mission abroad. We really need to stop doing that. In these guarantees I see no passable route, other than a little identification of what went wrong and an organisation that started without a mandate, still legitimize.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u29	Yes, but then I have good news for Mrs Leijten, because the LIMC has stopped. The people have been sent home and the activities have ceased. Quite rightly, because it is simply bizarre that there was no mandate for it and that it happened anyway. In that sense, we are at our beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u30	Of course, advice has been requested. The recommendations are embraced and can be passed. I think that's exactly what we shouldn't do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr. Chairman. The digital domain can no longer be excluded from the work of the Defense Department. Reports from our intelligence services show how dangerous and versatile the digital threats are from state actors, such as Russia, China and Iran, and on the other hand non-state actors, such as terrorist groups and criminal networks. I therefore believe that a strong digital defence is vital. Precisely because this domain is so in development, there is sometimes a need for a sound discussion about the scope and therefore the powers of Defence. Then it's always about the tension between privacy on the one hand and security on the other. It is often said that security is a matter of privacy. In my opinion, this is a false contradiction, because often privacy is also security. The more private data is collected, the greater the damage caused by burglary or abuse. In a rule of law, the government protects against external threats, but also against itself. Of course, a good balance is not easy to find. Following the discussion on the Land Information Manoeuvre Centre, the LIMC, the Minister indicated that it is necessary for our security to collect and process a lot of data quickly. The SGP stresses that this must be done within the legal frameworks and principles. It is about the right to self-defense, human rights and humanitarian war law, but also about the fact that the civilian understanding of the armed forces falls under civilian authority. The GDPR also requires that personal data are processed in a lawful, fair and transparent manner only for certain legitimate purposes. My question to the Minister is whether she can confirm that these are the general frameworks with which and within which our military forces must work consistently. The research report also shows that the LIMC has processed special personal data about political views, with the aim of feeding military and civil decision-making with insight and perspective of action in relation to COOVID-19. That objective was not justified. There has also been no data protection impact assessment. This means that the GDPR has been violated. The SGP Group considers this to be a serious matter. My key question to the Minister is therefore: what comfort can the Minister offer us that this does not happen again, and does the implementation of the six recommendations, as expressed in the letter, have the highest priority? I also have another pressing question. Is the current legal framework for information-driven action not too restrictive, so that tasks necessary for the defence of our territory cannot be sufficiently exercised? Is there sufficient scope for effective digital operation in mission areas? Are the financial frameworks sufficient? I ask the Minister to inform the Chamber of whether this is the case and how other EU and NATO countries are tackling it. I would like to have a commitment to that. If not, I'll have a motion in the back pocket for the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u33	Thank you. Mrs Belhaj has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u34	I have listened carefully to what Mr Stoffer says, but I have the impression that there is a misunderstanding. That's why I'm testing it. You have two important elements today. First, you have the choice of the LIMC to decide independently on core task number three of the armed forces: if a request is made, support will be provided. That request can only be made by the security region or the national police. They could say: the streets are full of rain, we can't take it anymore, would you please help? Or whatever. There are legal agreements about when the armed forces are allowed to do so. That's the part we're talking about right now. If you say things like 'we have to learn to work a little information-driven', then I feel that you are ignoring the fact that this was not a training exercise, but that without a mandate, while ignoring the legal rules, people have started to collect information to provide support that has not been requested. That's what they've literally started doing. That's one. I have the impression you're talking about one and two. That you want to practice. You're somewhere in a country on a mission and you want to know how we can handle the dynamics in society, how we can retrieve information and how we can address it in a good way. Is my feeling that maybe you're confusing these two things?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u35	It's a good thing the question comes because I've just tried to break them up. Let me be very clear: what has happened here is a very serious matter. That is what I have indicated in my contribution. As far as we are concerned, that simply cannot happen again. At the same time, of course, there is a lot going on in this area, especially when you are on a mission abroad. That was my introduction and also the conclusion. I did bring in those cases. If you say that is out of the order of this meeting, then it could be. But I've tried to name both cases, but I've tried to distinguish them. On the one hand, I say about what has happened now: we cannot, we should not do that. On the other hand, I do understand, also that broad spectrum catchy, which has created it, but it is of course not the intention. It's also something you as a government just shouldn't want. That is why I have also indicated that this belongs under civilian authority and not under military mission or military authority. I have tried to bring that up in my contribution, but apparently I have not been clear enough. I hope I have clarified this a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u36	Sure. Then it's obvious to everyone. If you say that information-driven work is important, I have always had the impression that we already had a military force that worked in information-driven operations, which is very capable of gathering information, analysing it, and then looking at what needs to be done in military operation. But you say: I do think it is important that they continue. Then I wonder if you really want to lift the AIVD and the STUDY. These are two bodies that can do exactly that, whether within the Netherlands or abroad. That's what we have these services for. Then the military say: the STUDY is fantastic, beautiful analyses. I'll charge you, but that's the idea, of course. There are very strict rules for this, and that is, of course, for a reason. It sounds a bit like you say: that LIMC may continue, then they will collect information, it's fine if they do that in the Netherlands. Maybe it's good for overseas. That's why I'm asking you. I have the impression that that is not what you mean. So my question remains: do you think that the AIVD and the STIVD can be lifted if we let the LIMC do so now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u37	No, it's also good to discuss that for a while, because that LIMC was of course just a few people who were picked up. It wasn't even an organizational part, when I read it like that in the report. I don't think it exists anymore. I deliberately tried to stay away from the organizational implementation. I don't think that's what we in the Chamber are about. We are dealing with these frameworks. When I hear it like that, I think Mrs Belhaj and I are reasonably in agreement. But I did try to stay away from the organizational part. But the LIMC didn't even exist yet, it was of course a kind picked up something from a number of people who were positioned together. I can imagine that these are the tasks that belong to the AIVD and the STUDY. But I can't quite comprehend that either. In this respect, I would like to hear from the Minister how this may be done now, but also in the long term. But as far as I'm concerned, it belongs there in the first place. This is, of course, a spectrum with a lot of development and also a threat. So that's right there in the first place. Should that be filled out differently: I stay away from the organisational implementation, it is the frameworks that matter to me. When we look at this case for a second, we see that something civil has happened here, which has fallen under some sort of military regime, and that is impossible. As a government, you're out of line. This is what you should never want as a government ever again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u38	That's good to hear. However, I happen to understand that the LIMC is still there and that people are still being hired, who are then going to do or practice their work under a broader type of information-driven work. I'm glad to hear you say you think it doesn't exist anymore. It was dozens of people who worked there all the time in one year. If that is not the case, the Minister must correct it. But I understand you're assuming it doesn't exist anymore. It's not really a question, but I still want to bring it up. Mr Stoffer says all the time: it's about frameworks, you shouldn't want that. I would like to point out to Mr Stoffer why I want to be absolutely clear on this: these are not just frameworks, this is the Constitution, these are the legal tasks of the armed forces. These are for a reason contained in a law, with all kinds of possibilities and limitations, as well as the STIVD and the AIVD have all kinds of possibilities, but for which a law, as you know, is the Wiv. That's for a reason. So I sincerely hope that you agree with me that laws should be respected and implemented, and that there should be no experimenting with laws, and that it is more than a framework that was accidentally exceeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u39	We are in complete agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u40	I would like to ask Mr Stoffer of the SGP if he feels that the outbreak of the corona crisis was a military mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u41	Definitely not. What I have greatly appreciated is that the Defense Department has provided support. That's what you can see in the letter the Minister sent us. All kinds of tasks have also been carried out around hospitals. But no, I certainly don't think this is a military mission, this is something that's happened to us, which affects our country, where we need to get out of it. But no, this is definitely not a military mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u42	That assistance has been appreciated by everyone. We have all called for this: use all the resources, including the armed forces, because one of the tasks of Defence is to provide assistance in the event of disasters, and Corona was such a disaster. Shouldn't we ask the minister together under what idea that LIMC was operating on? Was this under one of the main tasks that actually has to do with a military mission or under the main task of disaster response?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u43	Yes, in itself that's a good question. I didn't set it, and my term is over. I just had another obligation when Mrs Leijten spoke. But once that question has been asked, I'd like to join it. If not, I think that question has been passed on in this way. But I think that is indeed an interesting question. Let me just say right away that I think that defence should really have helped our society here. Because if everything goes wrong and there's nothing left to do, you can only call one more number, and I've always been taught, namely that of the Defense Department. Well, that's done and that's helped a lot too. But I think that the LIMC is a good thing, that's but my thought was a kind of pilot that emerged aside, and I don't think it fits in with the task we expected from the Defense Department. I can imagine how it's about to happen, but it's not supposed to, it's not good, it's not good, it's obvious. If the question raised by Mrs Leijten has already been raised, I am happy to endorse it. If not, the question has been passed on to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u44	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u45	I think that everything that has been said shows that there was no mandate, and that it has been an operation as if it were a military mission, to at least map the movements of actors in society in the performance of military tasks. So you ask the question I asked, which one was the enemy? Turning your own people into enemies goes across the border that Mrs Belhaj just mentioned, I think. The principle of the rule of law has really been violated here. But let us especially challenge the Minister to explain very clearly what core tasks of Defence that LIMC, which is still going on of course, now belongs to. Then we can also get answers to the question you were just looking for from me, namely: what about the intelligence gathering? How are we supposed to see that? If it is part of the first or second core task in the analysis, then there is no room for the LIMC.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u46	Thank you, Mr Stoffer. Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u47	Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is very important that we can all be safe in the Netherlands. For this, a defence apparatus that responds adequately to threats from outside is a very important condition. Without DOD, no security, and without security, no freedom. That's why the report that the military is gathering information from civilians has shocked me beyond belief. The military must protect our fundamental rights and freedoms, and here we see a very serious violation of our freedoms and fundamental rights, namely our right to privacy. Of course, privacy isn't sacred. Sometimes that invasion of privacy is necessary to be safe, to track down terrorists or to lock down criminals. But that's exactly what we have rules for. One of those rules is that the police, the AIVD and the MIVD have the powers to tap people and not the army. All these other bodies and organisations, for which we have gathered here in the Chamber over the last few weeks, because they have done so, do not have those powers either. Then we've been getting answers that I've read in the papers. "It's not really about following people." "Only open sources have been used." "We're not really talking about tracking individuals; that never happened." We now know that these answers are not correct and that there is no basis for these actions in all kinds of agreements or rules that have been made, even if they are said to be. So I really hope that we will get better answers on this issue today. I think most of the questions have already been asked. There is one question at the top for me: how could the army, like all the other agencies we have been standing here in recent weeks, have the powers to collect information about citizens in this way? I would like to highlight one more question from my entire questionnaire. It has already been written by Mrs Leijten and deals with the length of time between all the publications and the briefing by the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mr Kuzu van DENK has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u49	Thank you, Mr President. My group can very well imagine that, when the corona crisis broke out in March, it was in the knowledge that this organisation could contribute to the fight against the crisis, taking into account, of course, the possibility of appealing to them. It is quite possible that in March last year it was planned to respond to logistical challenges arising during the rapid spread of vaccines. Or that DOD could take on a role when it comes to transferring corona patients from one hospital to another. That's understandable. It is also valuable for the Defence Department to take care of this and to contribute to the fight against the corona virus. That was the reason why military discipline ordered a new department on 19 March 2020. This department, as we read in the factual account, must be ready within four days, on 23 March 2020 at 2 p.m. There was, therefore, speed and efficiency, which many government organisations can take as an example with appropriate jealousy. But in retrospect, carelessness, as often happens, turns out to be a recipe for failure. That is why it went wrong quite quickly after the creation of the LIMC. The Data Protection Officer will later recommend that we "want, may and can use in the right order." I would like to ask the Minister: what is the correct order? As far as the DENK Group is concerned, it always starts with the question: can we actually do this? At the moment when it is not allowed, there should actually be a thick line through it. Does the Minister agree? Mr. Chairman. You don't just collect information. There must be a clear goal in mind. The documents revealed show that Defence collected information in order to have action prospects and also to keep track of potential opponents. That's on page 37 of the report. I would like to ask the Minister: can you give us an insight into these perspectives of action? Then who are those potential opponents, I still wonder. Could you give an example of what an action perspective is for an opponent? Mr. Chairman. It is also unclear why a disinformation team COOVID-19 was set up rather quickly, without establishing a concrete action perspective. What did the DOD want to do to stop disinformation? Does the DOD have the mandate to trace and address civilian disinformation? Aren't there other organizations for that, like the AIVD and the STUDY? Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes the fact that research has been carried out into this method. The main conclusion of the investigation is fairly clear and straightforward: there is no legal basis for this method and accountability is not met. It is therefore particularly regrettable that the DOD has committed this blunder. It deserves a compliment, I say to the Minister, that she has already indicated that this is not good. I would ask her to repeat this here in the Chamber, because this method is not good for the status of defence. Mr. Chairman. In fact, we see what has happened here playing wider within the government. I refer to the improper use of personal data and the violation of privacy laws. I wonder if it would not be good to set up an inter-departmental working group dealing with this issue. I really think that could have added value. Because we can't take it off every time with "it shouldn't have," "it shouldn't have been like this" and "we should learn from this." I think we've learned enough lessons. Mr. Chairman. Defence also indicates that it has never been the intention to store massive personal data. I understand that very well. But it did happen. That must therefore be learned, because this must never happen again. It is therefore important that the report of the Data Protection Officer should not disappear in a drawer, but be followed seriously. I would like to ask the Minister how she intends to ensure that the recommendations are not only implemented, but are also structurally embedded within the organisation of Defence. My group will therefore, as I say in conclusion, table a proposal together with D66 to ensure that this is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u51	Thank you, Madam President. It's another breach of our privacy. In recent months, more and more public services have found it necessary to play secret agent. The NCTV broke the law by spying on innocent civilians with fake social media accounts. A few weeks ago it turned out that municipalities are also working on this. Officials in city halls and ministries are watching our private lives through Facebook and Twitter to see if we are good citizens, without any legal basis for this. Today we are talking about the news that the Dutch army is also spying on Dutch citizens on a large scale. Big brother is watching you. And, of course, in certain circumstances, it may be justified for information about citizens to be collected if they pose a threat. To this end, we also have intelligence services, which, on the basis of the law, carry out their tasks with clear foundations, conditions and criteria, and which are also subject to supervision. But what is going on here is happening without any legal basis. Defense isn't much of an intelligence agency. Defense must protect our country from enemies of the Netherlands. Yet a complete unity was established to spy on our own people. It is not about enemies of the state, it is about groups or people who hold displeasure opinions. I call Virus Truth, Jensen, The Other Newspaper. It is very worrying that peaceful entities that only express opinions that differ from government propaganda are criminalised and watched by our armed forces. This does not fit in any way within the remit of the Defense Department. It's illegal. The minister didn't authorize it. This is now recognised by the Minister. I agree with Mr Kuzu that this deserves compliments, because I honestly expected that the Minister in her letter would wring himself in all sorts of turns to make this right, as we have seen with other rulers. But the Minister says: no, this was indeed unlawful; I stopped doing so. Only after the minister read in the newspaper what is going on within the Defense Department did she decide to stop the activities. Before that, she said she was not aware of it either. This also raises the question of how the Minister could not have been informed of her practices by her own soldiers at all. This is not about an incident involving a military man who once spied on a civilian. No, a new unit has simply been set up to carry out tasks that do not fit in with the tasks of Defense. How can it be that no military person has thought: hey, should we not just inform the Minister about this? Does this minister have sufficient authority in the Defense Department? It is nice that the activities have been shut down by now, but how do we avoid repetition in the future? If this is not dealt with with with the greatest possible determination, it will be waiting for us to find out in the newspaper in a few weeks' time that the next public service is watching us. Then our beautiful country slowly but surely slips into some sort of absolute control state, including censorship and including a thought police that monitors citizens as soon as they engage in ideas that the government does not like. I don't want to live in a country like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you. Finally, Mr Boswijk of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis hit the Netherlands and the world hard. The country went into a lockdown last March. The armed forces have been called upon to take care of and support and to manate test streets. While we are speaking here, 160 men and women are currently engaged in medical personnel at UMC Utrecht, Defense supports the security of the VWS vaccination network, the KMar provides assistance for the security of the vaccine storage and 1,000 military stand-by for the support of our test streets and vaccinations in the Netherlands. Defence is expected to respond quickly and adequately to requests for assistance, especially while we are still in the corona crisis today. The Department of Defense wanted to prepare itself optimally for requests for assistance. There was therefore a great need for proactive action, to know as early as possible whether a demand comes from society. This was done by the armed forces using the Land Information Manoeuvre Centre. This followed, outlined and predicted the developments of the crisis. With the information provided by the LIMC, Defense anticipated early deployment, for example by adjusting or canceling exercises. One example is the medical staff. That follows continuous training, goes on a lot of practice or on a mission. If there is a demand for the use of medical personnel, it is not wise to send such an exercise. It is therefore a question of anticipating possible efforts. The LIMC was based on public information and paid information services. In addition to the sense of urgency to help the civilian authorities, the armed forces have an interest in experimenting with information-driven action. The digitization of the battlefield is one of the greatest changes in our military. He's also quite prominent in the Defense Vision 2035 for a reason. Defence is not equipped to do so at the present time. This is also evident from today's debate. Mistakes have been made at the experimental LIMC; let that be clear. That shouldn't have happened. But let us also be clear that the staff acted in good faith. That's what the investigation shows. The Minister also did everything she could. The unit has been shut down, she's had an investigation and all the recommendations have been taken over. There's also a further investigation into the rest of the armed forces. However, we still have questions about why it took so long to intervene. Was the publication in the NRC necessary for this? What if that publication wasn't there? As far as the CDA is concerned, there is no longer any need, no new legislation and no new supervisor. But what is needed is to see how we can deal with this better in the future. Because the digitization of the battlefield continues. Are the rules of engagement also constantly updated when it comes to digital participation in our society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u54	I really liked the beginning of Mr Boswijk's speech, especially the fact that he mentioned how fantastic the armed forces were using assistance during COVID-19, either on request or through an offer to which the other said: that seems to us to be a good idea. Today, of course, we are talking about a situation in which we were not asked to do so. You describe very much a picture of where that came from. You're talking about the sense of military: we want to do something, we can do something and we don't know how it ends. You just see it all happen. I'm a long enough defense spokesperson to know how... "Love" is not the good word, but I know how much love and love soldiers are committed to the safety, peace and order of everyone. I don't think I have to explain that to you. At the same time: if you're looking for an explanation for where it came from, that sounds a bit like some kind of condoning of the fact that it happened. Through you, Mr President, I will say that I do not really care where it comes from when it comes to such important matters. Although someone had world peace as an intention; I believe all of that, but if one decides to exceed legal tasks and rules, it should never legitimize or mitigate what is ultimately your conclusion. My question to Mr Boswijk is whether that was his intention, whether he explained it so extensively, whether or not he intended it. And does he agree with me that it doesn't matter what the reason is, that it's okay to name it, but it doesn't really matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u55	I did have that need. My contribution was a bit sharper, but in view of all the contributions I thought: I have to hang on the other side of the car. Let me be clear: what happened was wrong and should not have happened. We're very clear about that as a CDA. That's what the minister himself says, and that's what the organization feels on all sides. That must certainly not happen again. I can only immediately see that we are now throwing away the baby with the bath water and that we are saying: Defence must stop dealing with this at all. I notice that sentiment in this debate. I just don't think that's wise, because the world doesn't stand still. Digital threats are increasing. The whole idea that we are at war and that we still have a kind of boundary between that, for example that we have a little area between Russia and the Netherlands, and that the Russians and here the Dutch... It's fading, isn't it? You can see that coming together more and more. So I do think you should equip the military that warfare is going to be much more hybrid. There are also opportunities to anticipate this as a Defence Minister. And again, you've got laws and regulations that the DOD has to abide by. We in the Chamber must also check very closely on this. I therefore welcome the fact that this debate is taking place. But I would also like to say that we also need to see how we can ensure that the armed forces can deal with this better. I honestly don't believe in saying "they can't do that anymore," because I really believe that there are challenges there in the future, whether we like it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u56	Then I have the following question for clarification. You say it went wrong, but are you talking about the GDPR or are you talking about the fact that national support has been provided without any request?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u57	Both. I think it's both gone wrong. I just thought it was very important to paint the picture of why this happened. I noticed a bit in the debate that the picture was sketched as if it were almost done in bad faith. In order to make that statement, I think it is important to point out that we were in an unprecedented crisis; we are now a little in the wake of that. I can see where it's coming from. Again, I don't speak well with that, but I can understand it and I can see a dilemma, because we have to do something with it. But I don't want to say that the DOD shouldn't get involved in any of that anymore. I don't believe in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u58	I've spent a lot of time with a CDA man who really stands for the guarantees of the rule of law. When I listen to this, I startle a bit, because it's about the battlefield, the rules of engagement, like we're at war. I would like to ask, however, who exactly are we in a war with, so it would be legitimate to set up this kind of intelligence organisation for military assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u59	Again, I am not defending the mistakes that have been made here, but I have also experienced it on the other side. Last April, I myself was deployed as a military officer in the fight against the coronavirus. I have seen with how much passion men and women were ready day and night to work for the common good. Once again, mistakes have been made, but the image that there is a military force that wants to keep its people under control or that deliberately violates the law is really not on the agenda in my view. Once again, mistakes have been made, and we need to focus on that. That is why we are holding this debate, but I do not think that we should now paint an image of a military force that wants to harm its people. I'm really throwing that away from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u60	This is simply not an answer to my question. We have to be secure here, too. I have also said in my term that we are pleased with the commitment and support of Defence in terms of its third core task, namely helping to combat disasters. We all said that in this room. There's no discussion about that. But that must not legitimise the establishment of an intelligence organization as if it had a military mission on its own soil. Of this, the CDA is now saying that this is sensible and that it must be preserved. That brings me to my question, because then you must also be precise. If there is a battlefield, and if there are to be rules or commitments that belong to that first and second core task, then who is the enemy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u61	Again, what happened, I disapprove. Many things have gone wrong, and I also see a minister who recognizes it and who acted on it quite quickly once it became known. At the same time, however, the debate does not stop there, because we are seeing developments in the digital world which make the borders much more vague. You say: the LIMC must be completely lifted; stop doing so. Fine, I also understand where that came from. I see a world that is developing and in which areas and borders fade. I think you should anticipate that. I know that the SGP is about to come up with a motion that calls for us to see how we are going to set it up in the future. I'm going to support that motion with all my love. Your line is more that mistakes have been made, that you don't trust it anymore and that we should leave everything to the old. I see a world that is changing a lot, and I think we should prepare for it. I don't think we're gonna get out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mrs Leijten, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u63	I think I've been very clear about what I see, but I just asked the CDA to finish the analysis. If you, as a party, think that this military intelligence organization, which is customary abroad for the first and second core tasks, i.e. in war situations or mission situations, is necessary in its own country, and if you want to use them there in the nuclear task, then I think you should formulate who the enemy is. I think you should be so sharp. If you say that it is not there, then we are probably in agreement, then you have to say: but what tasks do we give it, and is it necessary? Don't we already have the STUDY, the AIVD and the NCTV for that? Isn't there going to be enough trouble there? Don't we have a lot of debate about that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u64	I cannot deny that things have gone wrong in the past. I'm a little more positive about that. I see change in our society. You call it enemies. I call it threats; so that's a little wider. You can see that it is much more effective when an operational service itself is part of it... Again, I am not saying how we should do it right now, but I think we should give it a chance and we should examine how we are going to shape it within the legal frameworks. I think we should take a serious look at that. But you're in a different game, and I respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u65	During this debate, the CDA indicates that it wants to be a counterpart, because the image is created that information is collected within the Defence Organisation with evil intentions. In my own contribution, I have made it very clear that this is absolutely not the case. But the conclusion is that things have gone wrong. And the road to hell is paved with good intentions. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u66	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u67	I really wonder what an extra LIMC can do when the corona crisis is over, because the LIMC is rigged at the time of a violent corona crisis. If it is over, shouldn't the LIMC also cease to exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u68	That's an interesting thought in itself. Frankly, I think that after corona, unfortunately, there will be other challenges. I think it's good to see how the armed forces deal with that in the future. I myself think it's too early to say right now about the LIMC "Oh, it didn't work; we quit and it's done," because reality is that developments in the digital world don't stop either. Just now "enemies" were said, but the threats are much more diverse and follow each other much faster than before the corona crisis. Two years ago, we never expected to end up in a pandemic. Who knows what's going on next year? If we abolish the LIMC, we'll lose a lot of knowledge. Things have gone wrong, but things have gone well. But we've lost that knowledge, and I think it's just a shame. I think that, given the developments around us, we cannot stand still. I'm what that is about a positive person. I think this is a joint quest for us and we should look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u69	Now it's true that I've been going over those reports, too. At the end of each report is "cut-off." That means: this information is valid until this date. That information can be used in the long term is therefore, in my view, a misconception. That's one. Then the second. The question is what a LIMC should do in the eyes of the CDA other than, for example, an AIVD in the field of the collection of information for internal security. What else would it do besides the STUDY for foreign security? We already have enough intelligence organizations with a accountability structure, don't we? There's a lot going wrong there, too, but we already have it. What is it that makes the LIMC stand out? And why does the CDA want that so badly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u70	As far as I am concerned, the data that has now been collected must be destroyed if it is not already done. I am referring more to the structure, in the way of cooperation: how does that work? It would be a shame to lose that knowledge. We've all tried this during this coronapandemic. I think it's a shame not to use that knowledge anymore and to lift it. I think the structure of a LIMC can be quite good and that the thought behind it is also well meant. That's what the investigation shows. That's my answer to question one. The other question is about added value. I think this is a very good and fair question. At the same time, I think it is very good that that is, I think, so in business that the armed forces themselves... Again, I really do see a clear role for the AIVD and a clear role for the STUDY. They certainly shouldn't double up on work. But I do think that, in a society where digitalization and developments are moving very quickly, it is sometimes easy to have certain tasks close by. But again, I think it's worth investigating. I do not have an answer here right away, and it has to be within all the legal frameworks, but I do not rule out that it is perhaps in the interests of all of us that we give confidence to the armed forces to see what role they can play in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u71	First of all, of course, nothing but praise for the fact that Mr Boswijk himself has also been active in helping to combat the pandemic, providing logistical assistance, in my opinion, in his capacity as a reservist. Very good, but everyone in the Chamber naturally praises that kind of work of all kinds of men and women who do it; again today. But just for the sake of the precision of this debate, of course, that is not what this debate is about. And I do not think that this debate is about the usefulness and necessity of the capacity that Defence must have in order to be able to provide information about tactical information in combat arenas itself. It's not about that either. What it is about is that the army has simply acted without a mandate, and then again in its own country. But acting without a mandate at all, wherever, is of course out of the question. And I kind of miss Mr Boswijk's assessment of that fact. Does he agree with me that we should be able to strengthen the position of independent lawyers within the Defense Department in this respect? Because, according to my information, they did make a call earlier than the end of November. And that is a pity; if it had been listened to earlier, it would have taken less time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u72	Well, as far as the latter is concerned, I fully agree with you; that seems to me to be a good proposal. And on the first point: I am just saying quite literally, even twice: this should never have happened. So I'm very clear about that. And frankly, I don't think we're that different in the game at all. Only I'm really looking for a way. Mrs Leijten just said: LIMC must be abolished immediately. It still exists, but it's not active. I think: the world is changing; let's also see how we can anticipate that. And even though mistakes have been made, and I'm not going to justify it, I believe in the best intentions of our armed forces. And I believe... In fact, we don't even have that luxury, we should also give the DOD the space and the benefit of the doubt to see how we can better put it together in the future so that we can prevent this, and at the same time that Defense can anticipate threats that are just going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u73	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u74	Yes. I think we all share that. Only, for the sake of order and also for the precision of the debate, for everyone who follows: these activities, which are the subject of this debate, of the Land Information Manoeuvre Centre, have been stopped, and that has been ordered by this Minister. And that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u75	Yeah, that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u76	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll suspend for 20 minutes, so we'll continue at 3:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u77	I will reopen the meeting and give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have arranged my answer in such a way that I will first give an introduction and then deal with four blocks. In that I have arranged the questions of all the questioners if it is all right. The first block: what is performance in the information domain in relation to the LIMC? The second block: the insufficient basis. The third block: the dissemination of reports and the cessation of activities. The fourth block: follow-up steps. Before I start, I want to say two things. One. I have already said it quite clearly, and I would like to thank those Members of Parliament who have also raised it here: there was no basis for these activities of the LIMC. It shouldn't have happened. That's why I said "stop." Two. The term "spying" that I heard here is really out of the question. There hasn't been any spying from the LIMC. That is something that happens under the Wiv mág, with all the guarantees of that. So I'd like to distinguish that term from what happened in advance. I would like to make a brief general introduction and then go into those cubes. I'd like to take you back with me first...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u79	Before you continue, I see Mrs Leijten standing. Is it an idea for the Minister to give her introduction first, or do you already have a very pressing question? Oh, yeah. I'm afraid so. Well, I'm not afraid so, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u80	It was me who talked about espionage. I'd like to ask the Minister how she describes it that you create profiles and follow people into their private lives, without them knowing that. What does the Minister call it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u81	That didn't happen. If you look at it, it's a phenomenon analysis. I'll be right back in my story to what exactly happened and why the LIMC was founded. But there has been no talk of spying on people on a large scale, as Mrs Leijten said. That is also supported in the documents. It's easier if I can just give you my answer. If you are not satisfied, I would say: come back to it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u82	A brief follow-up question and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u83	We have had oral questions here recently about municipalities that create profiles and follow those people without their knowledge. It's called spying. What does the Minister want to call it? If she wishes to say so emphatically in her first sentence that there was no such thing, what does she call it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u84	The answer comes from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u85	There has been no large-scale profiling and spying in that sense. So I will return to what the LIMC was founded for in my answer. I would also like to say something about the basis, because it was not clear enough. So that shouldn't have happened. But that's really something else. In the end, it was a phenomenon analysis. You have read in the report of the Data Protection Officer, and I will be able to take it up with you, by the way, that there was no deliberate search, "spioned" as you call it, for people. And that's what you do when you're spying. It's something that came with it and which in that sense wasn't the purpose of this operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u86	I'm asking the Minister for an alternative. For we have been able to see and read, even in those 80 reports, that there have even been maps of dissemination points of a newspaper that the LIMC apparently saw as undesirable. Then how do you find out if that's not spying?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u87	The Minister will explain this to you later, she announced. So we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u88	This was something else, but I will certainly deal with it. I wanted to take you, as some Members of the Chamber did, to March last year, the month in which it actually began. We all remember it well: then the covid virus began to control our society. It's still bothering us. We can see that here in the Chamber. That is the month in which Defence was deployed and provided the necessary support on various fronts, such as in the case of national patient distribution and the regulation of ventilation equipment. You remember: to the last of the devices we drove them out. This covid pandemic hit us all. The fight against this requires a great deal of us all to this day. I am glad that the Members of your Chamber also pay attention to this, because we still support it on a daily basis. So there is also a role for the armed forces in peacetime. This is seen on the third main task. Not only in support of disaster relief, but more broadly there is a role for the armed forces in peacetime. Just think of the Explosives Cleanup Service, which still bombs 45 bombs every week in the Netherlands. In other cases, too, the armed forces support, as they now do in the care sector. It was the point I started with: always, even then, you need a legal basis to act. It's gonna stay that way. I also informed you that this was the case. In the budget debate on 3 December, we also discussed this in detail. In the budget of 3 December last year, I also indicated that the way in which the LIMC carried out its tasks, without a basis, was simply not correct and that I therefore immediately stopped the work. I would also like to apologize here, Mr Fritsma, for asking the people concerned to add. The Centre was commissioned to collect, process and analyse information from public sources on an experimental basis, enabling military and civil decisions on the approach of covid to be fed with the right insight and action perspective. And actually, I would like to say this here. The question to the LIMC is: what comes to us in full width as Defense? We cleared every doctor and nurse we could find at that time. We've been looking into that. We've been looking into where the stakes should be made. So that's looking at the situation. Where are these people going? To the north, to the south? Is there enough food? How are logistics and distribution through food banks? That's actually what it's designed for, so that our people could have a better understanding of where stuff could go; that's normal for domestic operations too. That was the idea. From the outset, it was clear and stated in all the assignments to the experimental information centre that the centre had to operate within the existing laws and regulations. Part of this was that the Centre could not be used for national tasks without a request from civil authorities. We are talking about an official request for assistance or military assistance in the public interest (MSOB). Such a request is always necessary because in carrying out these tasks, the Defence Department operates under the responsibility of the applicant. Such an official request is then normally assessed by us as to whether it fits within the frameworks and whether there is sufficient capacity available for it. You can now compare this with the requests that are currently being made for the deployment of Defence personnel in, for example, vaccinations or tests. This too must always be the basis of a request from the civil authorities. We can't start on our own. At that time, we have also made our own policy team every morning and every afternoon. We have also made our own policy team.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mr Fritsma with an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u90	The Minister indicated that she had immediately stopped the activities of the LIMC, but that happened after a substantive briefing on 27 November last year. And that, of course, is a pain, because this experiment had been going on for eight months. When I read that there was only a substantive briefing on these activities on 27 November, I had to blink for a moment, because this substantive briefing should of course have taken place before the start of this project. Then this shit probably wouldn't have happened. So the Minister acknowledges that she herself has had too little control over this experiment? We knew in advance that this was a sensitive operation and then of course you have to keep your finger on the wrist. I'd like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u91	I will now come to the establishment of the LIMC and the briefing on it. The Commander of the Armed Forces said in the technical briefing today that it would have been better if it had been before. It is true that the army has a mandate to establish independent units. This work was for support in the operations. These are not, in principle, matters that need to be considered. The legal discussion actually came up step by step. You can also imagine from your previous lives: you first have legal discussions among yourselves and then it comes out. I also find myself: if I had known before, I would have done it before. There's no misunderstanding about that. As soon as I was briefed about it, I stopped it, but it would have been better if it had been before. But not everything always ends up in the Minister's office because there are also mandates from commanders to act, just as is the case in any other work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u92	Mr Fritsma, we are doing the interruptions in two, otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u93	Yes, I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. I understand that not everything on the desk comes from the Minister, but if you started such a sensitive project, of course, you should have. Does the Minister recognize that? That the first substantive briefing on the way in which such a sensitive operation is conducted is, of course, impossible. It should have happened at the start of this operation. I think that recognition is important, because it is also good for the confidence that we know that there is not another such thing under the Minister's radar. With that confidence, of course, we have to get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u94	Yes. It is not for nothing that I have just indicated to Mr Fritsma that the activities have started with the idea of the mandate, of course, that there would be an operation under the laws and regulations in force. I just reported it to you. That's the first premise you have to assume. In a kind of three-stage rocket it became clear at the time that that assumption was not correct. That was wrong. It should've been quicker. Everyone is now convinced that it should have been quicker. So I'd like to admit that to you. I have one comment to make on what Mr Fritsma says about'such a sensitive operation'. I shall come back to the objective a little bit more precisely later, but the aim was to create a sort of situational awareness, as Mr Boswijk actually said. Then what you do is see what happens in the area, even in case you go into surgery. That was, of course, the original goal: how can you make a better commitment based on information? That's not necessarily sensitive. What happened, namely the sharing of information that had already been stopped by the commander, and the acquisition of information, eventually also about persons, i.e. personal data, simply should not have happened. When I heard that, I stopped it right away. I wrote that in your direction as well. I also welcome the report by the Data Protection Officer, which you have of course all read. I think that it is quite right that this data has not been used with the wrong intention. In that sense, I also considered the discussion on intent to be important. The idea was to support the operation we're about to launch. This is all the introduction, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u95	You're gonna finish it, too, but first, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u96	In the introduction there are many answers to the questions that have been asked. To clarify, I think it's good to do this now. The Minister says every time, I say through you, Mr President, that the collection and processing of data should not have happened. The Minister also says in her letter: I should not have done that. But I've already announced in my speech that it's a fine report on the GDPR that that's not really what it's about. The point is that no military task should be carried out at all, if you have not commissioned it from the government, from your political role as commander of the armed forces. Two. What is at issue here is that core task 3, the provision of assistance in the event of disasters and crises, requires another kind of mandate, namely that a request be made. No request has been made, and you were yourself as a minister, as the supreme authority of the armed forces, not the one who gave the order. I would find that important to hear, because then it means that LIMC should not have existed at all and should not have done its work, as it was done. Looks like you're just focusing on that GDPR all the time. That is also very bad, but that is only a result of the decision-making process. I believe it is important that the supreme authority of the armed forces remains ultimately responsible, and that the armed forces understand that that responsibility lies with the minister and with no one else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u97	For clarity's sake, I'm always responsible for everything that's happened. I totally agree with Mrs Belhaj. I had added it to the first block, but you had asked whether I had explicitly authorised the creation of the LIMC, whether the objective was explicitly discussed, etc. That's what you asked for. The answer to that is: no, I did not authorise the creation of the LIMC. But it is also not entirely true what Mrs Belhaj says, because it is so arranged that the CLAS can set up independent units for Concept Development and Experimentation in relation to the first and second main tasks. They can therefore be used for the national task on the basis of an MSOB. So it could be set up, for the first and second main task. Then you can also use such a LIMC for the third main task, just to explain it. But then you need, and you're absolutely right about that, a legal basis. Then you must have a request for assistance or an MSOB application. The commander of the LIMC was instructed by the CLAS to provide insight and, where possible, an action perspective to deal with the covid crisis in the context of an experimental process and in support of military and civil decision-making processes. I knew the LIMC was there. We discussed this in December. But I was not briefed on this until November. That's when I shut down those activities. So it is true that the LIMC may be there, just for the first and second main task. That is also important, including for the intervention of the army. And there should have been a legal basis for the third main task. That's what I'm saying, to put it exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u98	That's right: to get it exactly. It's true what you're saying. On one aspect, I would just like to ask the following. That question concerns the knowledge that you had in November and which you now have, also in the knowledge that it has not been experimental. Experimenting is fictional. This hasn't been fictitious. Information has been collected and reports have been written on it. Then you can also say: that is possible, in some kind of exercise. But those reports were then actively sent out. Even when certain services said, "Stop that nonsense," they continued to send. So it wasn't an experiment. And if it is right, the Minister should know with the knowledge she has now that it was not an experiment and that she should have been properly informed. Shouldn't she know that with the knowledge she has now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u99	That's what I said: it wasn't allowed. And so what happened, we should have known. We have also said quite clearly that this was not possible, precisely because we had to assume it exactly as Mrs Belhaj said it would all be done within the legal framework in force, because that was the task. And that's just not the case. By the way, I wrote that quite clearly in the letter. I was glad that everyone actually said that: that that was just made explicit. Yeah, of which I'm aware.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u100	It is true that the first and second main tasks, namely the protection of our own territory and that of allies, but also the promotion of the international legal order and stability, are actually linked to situations of war or peacekeeping?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u101	Yeah, or welfare. For example, hurricane relief on the Caribbean. That sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u102	That'll be main task three. That's the provision of assistance. The difference between 1 and 2 on the one hand and 3 on the other hand is that 1 and 2 are military or defence, an enemy, while 3 are really about assisting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u103	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u104	But then my question is: then who was the enemy to set up that LIMC for that first and second task? There was a crisis of unprecedented order. It was the SP who also asked the parliamentary questions quite quickly, who asked: what can the DOD do to assist?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u105	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u106	But that intelligence position for that military task in times of war or for maintaining or achieving peace was absent, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u107	Look, one of those Land Information Manoeuvre centers. Covid was used for that experiment. We just talked about that. I have explained quite clearly that it should not have happened the way it happened. Of course, gathering that information is very important to the defense. That has to do with the fact that you have knowledge, that you know what the situation looks like. It's not just an enemy that matters. You keep talking about an enemy, but it's also important for the DOD to know the terrain, to know what the situation looks like, to know the roads, to know who's where, to know where the exits of a building are. It sounds crazy, but that's all information gathering and that's what goes with it. So we don't necessarily have to think "in an enemy." That's important. Sometimes there's an enemy, sometimes there's not. Sometimes we take an example of Lithuania as a form of deterrent at the border. That's an operation. But it's more than just an enemy, I just want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u108	The Minister says quite clearly: when it comes to these tasks, to the creation of the units, there is actually a mandate in this first and second task without the Minister being involved or politically responsible. But this was the third task. And it has acted as if it were a war situation. You can also see in those reports words as "the opponent" and "action perspectives." I'm putting the question sharply. Because we can pretend something happened that we didn't foresee. No, a military structure has been chosen in times of peace in a situation where the enemy is absent. The population is not the enemy. People who don't think about things the way they are in government policy aren't the enemy. That's not supposed to be a defense task, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u109	What I'm trying to say is this is about image building. That's what this is about. That's what it was founded for. And image building is much more than just looking at an enemy. I just gave you an example of what you could do. So this isn't necessarily about an enemy. It is a question of how we can see and know for ourselves as much as possible in order to prepare our own efforts in the end. That was the idea. You learn that in the main tasks 1 and 2. To take another example: look at that nationwide patient spread. As you will no doubt know, it would not have come about in the Netherlands at all if it had not been set up by two commanders of the army in the Erasmus Medical Centre with the NATO method of patient distribution. They had learned that in that first or second main task. That's where they'd performed. That's what's been put in here. Of course, there was a request for that. All of that happened as welfare. They've learned something there that they're using. You'd have to have an image for that, too. What we did there is build up a picture of where there were empty spaces in hospitals, etc. So in this case, it doesn't always have to be about an enemy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u110	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u111	The minister just walks away from the core question. She says: it shouldn't have been, but yes, it actually made a bit of sense. Of course, it is not the case that there are reports about where the entrances and exits are and about what the driving routes are for ambulances for that patient spread. There's no way those reports are in there. It was really about something else. The fact that Defense has been able to help with that military structure is very nice, very good. But that didn't require the data collection and the image build up by that LIMC. That would have happened without the creation of the LIMC. I think we should not confuse that. We need to stay clean. Suppose you set up a military operation, so in a situation of war and an enemy, and find that: we also need to get a picture of those networks, those images, those phenomena, or whatever words are put up there. That's just data collection: "What happens among the population? What can we analyse as a threat?" This situation has been applied in the Netherlands, in peacetime, to the civilian population. I think we should just say, including the Minister, "That was wrong. We don't want to do that, so we're not going to do that." The Minister seems to explain here: it was wrong, but it actually made sense. I'd like to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u112	I'm just explaining. I said it was wrong, it shouldn't have been, and that's why it was shut down. But I'm trying to explain to Mrs Leijten that we shouldn't always think of enemies. That's all this is about. By the way, sculpture is part of the regular military work: image building because you are going to perform somewhere or because you are going to practice somewhere. You don't always have to have an enemy for that. It's about how many people you stake. But I said it was wrong. I told Mrs Belhaj what it was like, including the first, second and third main tasks. I said there was no call for assistance. But I'm trying to get rid of that enemy image.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u113	I do hear that the Minister apologizes for things that have gone wrong. I think that's right and proper, too. At the same time, I would like to support the Minister, because I have just heard Mrs Leijten say that there are no reports and no images. We're talking about enemy images here all the time. I know those reports are there. Inventories have been made of the hospitals in the Caribbean, of the state of infrastructure, of accessibility, of the state of prisons, of how many people there are and what the capacities are. It's all part of the LIMC. There's by-catch. That's a bit of a nasty word, that's what they say. There's bycatch with information they shouldn't have. The Minister also makes that very clear: I apologise, I must not allow that to happen again. But image building is essential for the armed forces. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u114	We're not gonna argue with each other here. I would ask the Minister to finish her introduction, because we were still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u115	I was just looking at where I had left off in the introduction. I think I can skip this document because I have already answered Mrs Belhaj's question on the mandate. I would have liked to say something about that mandate in the introduction. Looking back, I have to conclude that it should never have come to this. Mr Fritsma asked about that. In the future, it must not happen again. I thought Mr Kuzu had asked a question about this. The deployment of the armed forces in the Netherlands in this area must always be based on a sound application for assistance by a civilian authority, whatever. I agree with all those who say that the laws and regulations are there for a reason. There's a reason we made them like that. I have been mayor and chairman of the security region myself, and I know, like no other, how important it is for you to be able to apply for assistance on the basis of the laws and regulations. So it just needs to be handled. In this sense, the point that Mrs Belhaj made first is absolutely right, and that has been supported by everyone. The Data Protection Officer also concluded this in the report. It took longer for the report to appear. The Data Protection Officer shall be independent. She explained her working methods and explained why it took a little longer to answer the questions raised by Mrs Leijten. I thought it was important that the report was there. Mr. Chairman. Then the questions and the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u116	I would like to say to Mrs Belhaj: I did not say anything about interruptions, because I always hope for your own discipline, but that is, of course, dangerous here. Shall we see if we can get out with three interruptions in two? Let's give it a shot, or we're gonna repeat ourselves. Mrs Belhaj now refers to the Minister's comment on the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u117	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's right. What I did not hear the Minister say, but what I wanted to hear is this. The minister says I've had research done on the GDPR. But has the Minister also done research himself, in the vein of: how could it have happened that as Minister of Defence I do not know that this is happening? I do understand: if mistakes are made, you can say "mistake, and we'll go on again." But it's really about something. Has the minister been angry? Did she do an internal investigation? Is there any more information? Did she say "whoever did this, I don't have to explain what the core tasks are?" It's not about complicated legal advice. Surely I can count on the Defence Summit to understand what the core tasks are and under what conditions you can legally use them? What did the Minister do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u118	Of course I've been angry, because I was also upset about this, just like many of us in the organization. I have spoken to the predecessor of this CDS about this. We talked about it. We put it together. We sat down together. I've given an order to the board to look into it. That's what I thought it was supposed to be. Otherwise, I couldn't have written you a letter like that. Then the first block, about the performance in the information domain. There were some questions about that. What exactly is "Information Manoeuvre"? The goal of such a center, of the entire information domain, is that you try to get an advantageous position in an information environment. A number of Members have said something about this. Mr Van Wijngaarden also mentioned it. You can see that the battlefield changes, even towards the future. That's something we wrote down in the Defence Vision. Dealing with information is one of the capabilities you need to have to respond to threats. This involves the collection of information and the rapid processing, sharing and deployment of reliable information, as well as faster and better commands to follow. Given the increasing threat, that is extremely important. So we need a better ability to quickly describe our environment. It's called "insight" in our terms. We need to understand what is happening, that requires "understanding," and we need to see changes coming and influencing, and that's called "foresight." We're working on it in that whole digital environment. We've reported all kinds of things about that in the Defence Vision. The knowledge gained during training and training and in mission areas has been used by LIMC staff to meet the C-LAS mission to provide insight into those action options. Then there is Mrs Leijten's question. As I have just said, I see that there was no request from civilian authority. It shouldn't have; there's no misunderstanding about that. By the way, we support daily and issue weekly weekly reports of operations from civil authority, in all kinds of areas. The aim of the LIMC was therefore to carry out phenomenon research in order to create that "situational awareness" as it is called. As the Data Protection Officer also said in the report, there was no targeted search for persons. However, personal data from mainly public persons came along. I think the word "bycatch" itself is a terrible word. It's a word from the Data Protection Officer, but it is. So the goal was to map the phenomenon. Then Mr Stoffer asked whether the current framework was actually too tight, if you look at information-driven action. For the task at stake, that is not the case. If there had just been a request for assistance or an MSOB, it could have been done easily and in the first and second main task it is also well arranged. Mr Stoffer knows better than anyone that there are very different mandates and powers in defence of the territory and in mission areas. But I think it could have been here if there had just been a decent question, but there wasn't. Mr Stoffer also asked whether something extra should be done. We have, of course, thought about whether that would be necessary. That's what the letter said. We do not have that need at the moment. I also indicated in my letter of 7 May that I would like to improve the process internally with the Defense Department. I will come back later to what we are doing with the recommendations. We're gonna work internally first. We have organised working groups including military lawyers, AVG officials, ethical experts and operational units active in the information environment. We have put them together and they come together to examine the possibilities and limitations and whether anything else would be needed. You have read the Defence Vision well, and I know as well as I do that the threat and problem analysis of the Defence Vision 2035 reveals that Defence is now insufficiently equipped in that entire information environment. We need additional ICT capacity and other things to do that, and we really need to change that quickly, and that means investing, so that we get a better overall position. If you use everything neatly, I think the legal basis of this moment is good enough. If anything else comes out, you will of course hear it, because that is what I have indicated. Mr. Boswijk...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u119	On the previous point, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u120	I'm stuck with that terminology of that "situational awareness" all the time. Which is actually about environmental awareness. It's perfectly normal for a military force to have that, and they can do it just fine, abroad. But all the time I'm thinking, what's going on here? Because what do the AIVD and the STUDY do? These are two organisations which can collect this information and carry out these analyses and which can also be in charge if necessary, because there is a request from the national government. So they get that information. Then they call the Secretary of Defense and they say: we need your help in this and this area. Then they wouldn't call a Secretary of Defense to say, "Does the LIMC want to make a situational awareness?" They've already done that, haven't they? Why is this situational awareness so important? You can also call the STUDY and the AIVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u121	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u122	In fact, as you may know, the STPD is also under Defense. But that's intelligence, so that's not per se situational awareness. Part of it may be, but that is an intelligence service that collects intelligence in the framework of state security. It operates under the Wiv 2017, of course, with all the supervisory standards that go with it. Then it's about carrying out intelligence activities. That is the only thing these two services can do. I believe that Mrs Leijten referred to this, and in recent weeks the discussion with the NCTV was also about this. But only STUD and AIVD are allowed to collect and process information. That's what they can write ministry reports on, which we can base on. You get the public annual reports, and the CIVD is for the classified annual reports. But this is the ordinary, normal day-to-day work of in this case the army, where you need to know for your daily activities who to send to where, what it looks like and so on. That's actually what situational awareness is, just like you, when you operate in Mali or somewhere else, have to see what the environment looks like and so on. So that's different from intelligence and spying, for which the Minister has to give his consent. In part, they also do image building for the STUDY, often from countries where we operate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u123	I see the AIVD and the STUDY as two organizations that do more than just collect and analyse legitimate information. That's the basis for a military organization to know what to do. It listens so closely, because we have the Wiv above it. Hence my question again. That situational awareness can the army do on the basis of information from the AIVD or the STUDY, or on the basis of a request, when it comes to the national task? Defence does not have the final power when it comes to the national task. That's not DOD. That's the point. Why would they want to do situational awareness themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u124	For our normal, normal work, also for practice, so not even for assistance, it is necessary to understand the environment. That's what you started it with. For all the work it is necessary to understand the environment. The army organises this in a certain way to know where to use men and women, how to set up exercises etc. Then you need to know what's going on in the area. That is one of the things that can happen in such a LIMC, but there are many more people who are involved in gathering information and building up a picture for our work. That's just building a picture for everyday work. Of course, we can use the intelligence work of the services, but there is always image building in the normal daily work. Sometimes it goes together, sometimes it doesn't go together, sometimes it has to be fast, because you look at a road. You may think that's a crazy example, but it's about people coming from point A to point B. Then you should see if there's a railroad. It's also part of image building. So not everything is intelligence work that requires special powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u125	Mrs Belhaj, you want to interrupt, but this is the same point the third time now, so actually no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u126	It's a means of any commander, you might say. That commander, even at a lower level, needs intelligence in order to deploy his people. Actually, the idea was, or is still the idea, of such a LIMC that you map out the information environment for a commander.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u127	Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u128	It's a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u129	That's a little tricky, isn't it? I am trying to be somewhat flexible here with the number of interruptions not to beat the debate to death, but you have already had a lot of interruptions. On this subject, this is your third. So that's how it's gonna be really fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u130	Mr. Chairman. It is important that these two subjects are still my main themes of my speech and questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u131	So after this, you're gonna sit in your chair for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u132	It bothers me, too. Let me put it this way: I am not asking for a factual account and a reconstruction for nothing. I'm getting half an A4's. So what happens is that I, as a Member of Parliament, think: now I have to ask 30 questions here in my three minutes to get these facts out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u133	I understand. That's why I'm trying to be easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u134	That's not because of you, Mr. Chairman. But whatever I can do, and I have thought about it... I will not allow this debate to take place. I want to have this debate in a good way. As a Member of Parliament, I then have restrictions and those restrictions will be increased once again because what I have asked for has not been delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u135	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u136	There's just a reconstruction and a story of fact. I get half an A4 and then I have to challenge the minister here all the time and say: these are the facts. We can also suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u137	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u138	I'd rather get the whole story of the facts. Because that makes it easier for me. I just want to know what's going on. That's what matters to me. Many interruptions are very annoying and this is also...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u139	To conclude this subject that you raised. It was about operational awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u140	Yes. The minister says, for example, that we have JISTARC abroad. That's right, but that's different. That's about the other two tasks of the armed forces. This is about a task of the armed forces carried out under national jurisdiction. So the military doesn't have to do those analyses themselves. That's what the police do, or the mayor does. He asks for information and says: this is the situation. He then calls the minister and says: I need 50 trucks. If the minister says it's not, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u141	I can explain exactly, Mr. Chairman. This is precisely about information to map the environment. Let me give you an example which makes it quite clear: the nursing and nursing homes. You may have followed that. In December, the question came from Enschede. I went there myself to look and deliver ten military nurses. That's when we got together, because we had basically turned our people off everywhere at the time. We were also practicing et cetera back then. Because the need was high, we said: we are going to see what we can do with a dust comb from the entire organization to military nurses, medics and so on. Then in Enschede we delivered four people, not the ten who were asked. So the world was too small. Then I went there and watched with our people, where we finally delivered four people. That was because in the end we didn't have to do it with ten military nurses at all. We needed a hygiene worker, a logistics officer, and we needed two nurses. Eventually, we scaled it up a little bit. That's because we're sending someone forward to look at the situation and assess the environment and they're saying, okay, they're asking that now, but this is enough. That's how we can do something else. That's how we map the situation, build a picture. That is what we do all the time when we are engaged in our work. A mayor, I can tell you, because I've been there myself. I have no idea what a military organization can mean. That is why one of us is always going to see what needs to be delivered and how we can do it as efficiently as possible. It's also part of image building. Then you need to know what else you can do, how to spread people. So that's where a commander has people who collect that data.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u142	Everything I hear now sounds quite reasonable to me. But I kind of feel like there's something missing somewhere. Perhaps that is in line with what Mrs Belhaj is asking. When I have to take the train from home to The Hague, I look at the itinerary, gather information, see which station I come to and where I can get a cup of coffee. I'll think about it all in advance, and then I'll get out of here. What I do not collect then, if we say Mrs Belhaj, Mrs Leijten or Mr Kuzu would be on the train with me, is the background information that is behind it all. Suppose you want to do a corona surgery, so you want to help people at a hospital, or I don't know what. That's where you collect information. Accidentally, information is also collected about 30 politicians, journalists and I know what else is behind it. What I don't get is how you get off that surgery to help in a medical situation, comes up with information about people who, in my opinion, have absolutely nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u143	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u144	In my opinion, that is also the missing link I hear mention of Mrs Belhaj, who is also popping up on me now, in the course of the debate. How's that? I really want that connection, too. Because if it does not become clear, we are indeed having a debate here that is simply not about anything, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u145	No, I just shouldn't have. Those data just shouldn't have been collected. They shouldn't have come because they shouldn't have. There was no basis for that. We have made that very clear. The conversation was about the fact that gathering information is part of the work a commander has to do. That's what the conversation was about as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u146	Soon we will be on the second topic: basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u147	I know what the Minister's saying. The only thing I don't understand is how someone gets it in their head and then gathers information about politicians, journalists and so on. There's a gap somewhere between having that operation and eventually getting out of information. We agree that we can't. We accept that apology, too. But we want to know why you're working on something and that you're going to do something completely different. I mean, then you're talking about a wrong job assignment, or then there's someone who needs some... that information, that story, those facts we want to get upstairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u148	The people were simply too little aware of the fact that they were not allowed to. You can see that in the report of the Data Protection Officer. They were just far too little aware of the GDPR. That is why we have also intervened and added an additional GDPR officer and lawyers etc. They were too little aware of the regulations. I can find anything about that, but it just doesn't add up. They just have to comply, like everyone else, I assumed; I started to comply with the laws and regulations, and therefore also with the GDPR. And they just didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u149	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u150	Yet again: we agree on this. But how do you figure it out? That is what we want to know, otherwise it may happen again. We want to know where it comes from, when you're working on it, you're pressing the button or you're just going to do something completely different than what you had to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u151	No, we're not gathering that information. What happened... let me take you as an example. They read a newspaper article. Maybe they read that behind a pay channel, which they shouldn't. Because what you and I like as a private person, a government just can't. In that article, your name came up as a politician. They processed that data in the message. That's what happened. That's how it came. That's what you see. You can sometimes see that in the source, in which these newspaper articles are written. That's how you know about politicians. That's what happened. You can't do that. You can't do that as a government organization. Therefore, information has not been deliberately collected; so has the Data Protection Officer. But there's been good intentions, and the Data Protection Officer says that...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We can't collect it. We didn't want to. We didn't. However, thematic information has brought those articles in, and it simply should not have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u152	I could still understand that when it comes to one or two people, but it concerns more than 100 people, I read in the report. If you do that 100 times, there's no self-reflection or isn't good in the organization. There's no way you're gonna do it 100 times, is there? Then I think: you do things you shouldn't do at all, just useless things. But, of course, it's not a good time. It can't be that as an organization you don't have some kind of cleaning up, a reflective ability, so you don't collect this kind of thing for more than 100 people? If it was one person, I would have believed what the minister said. Well, I believe the Minister, but I don't understand how it happens 100 times. That's just weird, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u153	It is the reality. That's why we stopped it as soon as possible. You have also been able to read this in the report of the Data Protection Officer. I also went to look at articles. If you open the newspaper every day, you can also see that there are sometimes ten names in one article. So it's not crazy at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u154	The very last one, Mr. Chairman, and with that, I'll finish. I read all that too, but I don't understand why you take the action to write it down and collect it. I can't even get it in my head that you're gonna do that as a civil servant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u155	Me neither. That's why we stopped it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u156	Well, the question is why. Let me come back to the example. The Minister likes to give examples to convince us that it actually made sense. I therefore take the example of the use of military forces in nursing homes. What threat image should be made there? It would be about raising consciousness so that men and women can perform their duties safely. Then why should such an image of consciousness be created there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u157	It's not about doing their job safely. It is simply a question of how many people need to be deployed, how many trucks need to be at a demonstration and how many people are expected. So it's not about saying anything about safety at all. The point is that we can use our people effectively in such a case. That was the background to the example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u158	Okay, it's an efficient bet, and that's why we make phenomena and images.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u159	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u160	I'm trying to get it. What if I or the chairman comes to work at the nursing home? Of course, that was not possible at the time, but something like this often happens. Would we have come into that picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u161	No, because that's not what LIMC did. I answered Mrs Belhaj about what a commander does to put people in a situation. In this case it was the commander of the Medical Troops, who needs to know what it looks like, what it actually is, how many people are needed and so on. So you wouldn't have been in there, because the man has gone to look, comes back, says how many people he needs and determines the stakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u162	That does not explain the importance of the need for the establishment of the LIMC, and that is what we are obviously looking for. That is what Mr Stoffer is asking for. That's why Mrs. Belhaj is asking about that awareness and why I'm asking who the enemy was. That's where it's coming from. The moment a request is made to help in some nursing homes, I understand very well that you're gonna look, that you're gonna estimate it, that you're gonna see how to do that effectively. I understand that very well. It's also nice that it's possible that the DOD can play that role. But that does not explain the need to establish the LIMC. And that's what we're looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u163	I just answered that in another section. The LIMC is about working with information. The commander of the army has independently invented that also within the framework of the first and the second main tasks that an experimental environment had to be set up. That mandate was and is with him. That commander was also instructed to look at civilian decision-making processes. Because the corona crisis was there, it seemed a good idea in experimenting. There was no basis for that. That wasn't good, but that doesn't mean that working with information wouldn't be good. That's always important. That is the nature of our work: we need to understand the environment in order to ultimately use our people as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u164	Mrs Leijten, let me finish. And then Mr Kuzu and then Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u165	Agreed. The Minister is now saying again: the commitment to core tasks 1 and 2 - security of your territory or that of allies and the enforcement of the rule of law in an international context, for example with missions and military deployment - gives the right to set up such an experimental space. That is the mandate of the Commander of the Armed Forces. He does not have that for core task 3: helping and assisting in crises and disasters. And we were in that situation. Why did the DOD believe that this was a situation of the first or second core task? If that was the thought, then who was the danger, then what was the situation of war with an enemy?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u166	There was no enemy or danger in that sense. If you wanted to see a threat, covid was the danger. We're still in that together. What was meant to be, I've already explained. We wanted to use our people as best we could. By looking at what happened in an environment, we could prevent all our people from being deployed in the south while, so to speak, a fireplace in the north would suddenly arise where people would have to go. That was the danger. Moreover, I have to correct Mr Stoffer's point about those hundreds of people. It's not hundreds of different names. Some names are very often in it, because they are well-known public figures. One person, for example, is in it 30 times. So you shouldn't think it was hundreds of people. We need to get that image out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u167	I saw that little schematic, too. I think the Minister is saying very clearly: there was no legal basis. Agreed. She admitted it. There were no evil intentions. It's been admitted, too. She's intervened, she's stopped it. Fine. Maybe a little late, but okay, fine. She did it. Then there's the question that comes up more often. Why was it necessary to put those personal data in those reports and how did that serve the purpose? Why? What has been the reason to write down the name of a certain politician 27 times, with whom I do not always agree, in a report? What was the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u168	It was indeed bycatch, as indicated. I don't think there was a real reason. Those personal data did not serve any purpose at all, because it was about the phenomenon analysis. There was no purpose, there was no reason. I also find the question of why to answer complicated, because people just shouldn't have. They should have had the knowledge not to. You have seen that we are correcting that, too. I think it's wrong, too. It won't happen again, as you understand. Thank you for agreeing to that. Just as I can't always answer the question of why you do things, I can't answer them now for the people who did it. It shouldn't have happened, that's what I can say. And you can't. I think we should stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u169	If it is okay with you, I do not want to leave it at that, because it can of course also be a sign that there are more situations where things are not allowed to happen. If we do not have an explanation of why these personal data have been reported, the logical follow-up question is: do we actually have an idea or does the Minister have an idea whether this is more common within the organisation of Defense?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u170	What I know is that people thought that using public data, because they did, fell within the legal framework and they didn't. So that was wrong. Following the advice of the Data Protection Officer, you have seen that we have sent people everywhere. We strengthen the GDPR function and strengthen the legal function. So it can no longer happen with the measures we have taken, because a privacy impact analysis must always be made in advance before people start doing their job. You were able to read that in the letter we sent. We have followed all the recommendations that have been made. It must not be possible to prevent this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u171	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u172	Let me ask the question in a different way. If we can't put our finger on the sore spot, which is an answer to the why question, can you understand that the Chamber, or rather I, because I am not speaking on behalf of colleagues, have an uncomfortable feeling about what has happened and what may happen in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u173	I have just told Mr Kuzu that the answer to the question of why, if I had to answer him, was that people thought that public information could be used. It was a phenomenon analysis that was done. I hate to break it to you, but it was bycatch. That's what the report says, so let's use that word. Those personal data did not serve any purpose at that time. With the strengthening of the GDPR function, the strengthening of the lawyers involved, the talks with the commanders everywhere and the privacy impact analysis that must now be made in advance of everything that is happening, it must no longer be possible to prevent it. So everyone has to ask themselves that question in advance. That just didn't happen. That question was not asked in advance. That's just wrong. I can't make it prettier. It's wrong. I've said it's wrong, and people realize that's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u174	It served no purpose. There was no mandate. That is a clear intermediate position of this debate. Moreover, I think the Minister is quite clear when she states what the intentions were there. It just hasn't been properly thought out. On one point, I have a question. I'll come back to what she just said. She said: I stopped it as soon as possible. I would like to question that, because the Minister was aware of the existence of the Land Information Manoeuvre Centre and on 6 August there were already serious legal doubts as to whether this could be done in this way. However, it eventually took until the end of November before it was stopped once. Of course, that's richly late. That is why I ask the Minister to come back to the statement that she stopped it as soon as possible. Does she think, if she looks back into this debate now, with everything we know now, that it really was as soon as possible? Or maybe you could have done that sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u175	The answer is: it could have been faster. That's absolutely true. I don't remember saying "as soon as possible." When I found out, I did it as soon as I could. That was the intention of what I wanted to say. I am sure you know, as I do, that there will be a discussion between us before it arrives on my desk. It's been too long. You should've done that before and you could've done it. There's no misunderstanding about that. I think the Commander of the Armed Forces also said in the technical briefing that if we had known earlier, we should have done it sooner. It could've happened sooner. Look, the legal doubts about sharing the information have taken too long. That was the first part and then we did research into how it happened, about the acquisition of those personal data. Of course, we first looked at it ourselves. I think that took too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u176	Thank you for showing the Minister that reflection here. I think it is indeed the challenge, then, that some legal discussions, we have seen that in other cases too, we do not continue to be conducted among ourselves, but at some point to a different level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u177	In this kind of larger executive departments, where people are all employed themselves, you see that more often. You also know from other departments that discussions are held long before they reach a higher level. This is another lesson that can be important faster scaling up, especially if you don't get out of it. It's been a long time trying to get out and look at it, and that's not good. Sometimes you have to scale up right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u178	The Minister has now acknowledged that personal data have been processed unlawfully, which came from public sources. She apologized for that. But according to the article in NRC it went a lot further and has also been infiltrated in online networks using one or more aliases. Although that is denied by the commander of the LIMC, he even calls it apekool, but I wonder: do these sources suck all of this out of their hands or is there something more going on? That is why my question: can the Minister give her opinion on this and rule out the possibility of infiltrating closed online networks at any time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u179	No avatars have been deployed and closed networks have not been infiltrated. The commander you just mentioned said the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u180	That is very clear, for which I would like to thank you. However, according to NRC, there were several sources that claimed this. Perhaps the Minister can give a guarantee that if we go a little further into this and find out in the near future that this has happened, if that can be demonstrated, the Minister will then offer her resignation because she has misinformed the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u181	Mr. Chairman. It is as it has just been said: with the knowledge of today. Yeah, I got it, too. This is the knowledge that I have and which I can give here to honor and conscience. That's what we've been investigating, including us. It's not unknown. That is what Mr Van Meijeren has to do with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u182	I have one factual question. We were just talking about numbers of people. The Minister indicated that there aren't hundreds of them. I tried to say it was over a hundred. I referred to the report of the Data Protection Officer, page 52, Table 6. That's the number of 105. I have assumed that these are 105 unique people, including 31 politicians, and so on. Is that true, or is it perhaps the same politician 31 times?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u183	Yes. They're not all unique people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u184	Thank you for that. When I've listened to you like that, you're already moving through your little blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u185	Yes, the cubes have become a mess, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u186	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u187	I'll see what questions are left.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u188	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u189	Shall we just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u190	Yeah, I would. Then we'll know which questions haven't been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u191	Block two is about the base. I leave the basis behind, because I have already answered the questions in detail. But Mr Kuzu asked for perspectives for action. Ah, there you are; I still need to get used to all the new positions in the Chamber. Your question was not so much about the LIMC, but broader: if you have information, how can you deal with action perspectives and possible DOD deployment options? Let me take an example of what I saw in Lithuania. If you've collected enough information on what the Russians are spreading to disinformation about my Lithuanian colleague in this case, you might be thinking of debunking that information. That also applies when falsehoods are spread over corona. Then you can do the same. That's one of the options there are. We need to think more and more about this: what are action options you might have? Then I have Mrs Belhaj's question. She mentioned the numbers of people who worked at the LIMC. At the height of the activities, 20 people worked at the same time. Sometimes it was two or three. I thought Mr Boswijk explained quite well that it was people who were always brought from other parts there. They were therefore lent by their parent units to collect information. Then we talked about spreading reports and stopping. I had put the debate on the lawyers on this block, but we have just discussed it with Mr Van Wijngaarden. So that has already been discussed. Then there was Mr Van Wijngaarden's question about when it ended up on my desk. I can still answer that. The concerns of the data protection officer, at DJZ, at the CDS and at the minister, did not actually live until 18 November, so not so long in advance. Then the Data Protection Officer announced to conduct an investigation. He's an independent official. You know the procedures. It is independent and has been announced independently to carry out a monitoring visit. That information was distributed internally, and then we picked it up faster. Mrs Belhaj's question has already been answered. I hadn't given a mandate to spread facts. There was no mandate either. I think it's all been dealt with further. Then follow-up steps. That's the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u192	Before you start, Mrs Leijten will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u193	Now that the minister says she's answered all the legal questions, I thought I'd have to get up anyway. I asked the Minister if she thinks we're crazy, sending this story of fact. In fact, the Minister states: it is incomplete, because I did hear on 18 November that the Data Protection Officer intended to launch that investigation, and that fact is simply not included in that account. I would like the Minister today to undertake to give a new account of the facts and to include all the legal signals that have been sent to her office or not, so that we can take note of them. That's what I asked her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u194	I mentioned this question, because the question was how it came that November 27th was the briefing. So that's the Data Protection Officer who's independent. That was a question from Mr Van Wijngaarden. The Data Protection Officer has announced a monitoring visit. It was distributed internally to the Defense Department. Then we picked it up and came up with the briefing. In this sense, the legal discussions that have taken place between us, which have finally been put on the table for the reasons, have not all ended up in my office either. I have just indicated this in the direction of Mr Van Wijngaarden. It's often the case that people try to get out of each other. Then you see them thinking: okay, we'll put it up on a higher deck, as we call it. That just didn't happen fast enough. I have just told Mr Van Wijngaarden that I believe that this should be strengthened, and the GDPR function................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I told you that what happened shouldn't have happened. Everyone agrees on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u195	Mr. Chairman. There's been an unlawful act. There has been an attack on the basic principles of citizens in the Netherlands, because of what happened to the LIMC. On 26 August, the Commander of the Land Force decided not to allow the dissemination of those 80 reports to take place outside of Defence. This is based on legal advice. That's what I want. I also want to know why that did not come to the Minister's office at the time. We need that analysis. I asked the Minister: who is in charge here? And then I really do not believe that the next moment after 26 August will be the official moment for the investigation, and that it will take eight days for the Minister to be briefed. We have all expressed our surprise at this. But where do we read about the newspaper which contains this enormous, large reconstruction, which gave rise to this debate and to the series of parliamentary questions? Parliamentary questions which, by the way, have had to wait for a final point to be answered for five months, which the Minister says was perfectly normal, because she wanted to wait for a report. Well, that's not normal. Answering parliamentary questions is the moment you have the answers. That is not in fact the case either. I don't want to be sent out with a brat in the reeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u196	However, the report of the Data Protection Officer was necessary in order to be able to give answers to the Chamber. Moreover, it has been properly discussed with the Chamber that it was important to have that and to wait for the answers, because we did not know a number of things in the end. This report also contains the analyses of the orders given. This is an independent judgment of how everything went. De facto, this is also a factual account of how everything has gone. I do not think that the internal legal debate adds anything to that. You have an independent judgment. So your room knows that it wasn't right, that it was stopped and that the function has been strengthened. This report shows, with the beams, how it went. I've delivered everything to you, including all 80 reports that have been written. I have made a summary of the facts on the decision-making process. In the end, you will have to judge me on the decision-making process and not on all the underlying legal opinions. That decision-making is based on the documents that I have here and which you have, of which all the other pieces are anchors. So you have that independent judgment. You also know when the decision-making moments of the directors have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u197	Okay. Finally, Mrs Leijten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u198	This fact-finding report is not a fact-finding report. It is very nice that we have had the report of the Data Protection Officer. We also had a briefing from her this morning. But from this it becomes clear that the peer review is, with wide scope for hearing and hearing again. Even then there will be such a rigorous report, because it is not legal on all sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u199	It's really independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u200	I would like to understand so much what is happening when an unlawful decision is taken on the basis of two of the core tasks of Defence, which were not discussed at the time when assistance was provided in a crisis, which also had a major impact on confidence in public trade. We haven't even talked about the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u201	Mrs. Leijten, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u202	That's why I want to know when the red flag went up. I would therefore like to know at what point in time the Legal Service has warned and how it is dealt with. That's relevant to us to know. I do not think the Minister can just say: I do not think it is relevant and so I do not send it. So I'm officially asking here, for the second time...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u203	It's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u204	So I'm gonna get those documents right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u205	First of all, let me say that I am very far removed from the point of view of peer review. That is absolutely not the case. This is governed by a law. The Data Protection Officer shall be governed by law. He's independent. I have not been able to follow the technical briefing myself, because it was decided. It is likely that this morning the Data Protection Officer also gave a clear indication of how the process went. At least I can see people nodding. It's not a peer review. This is an independent official, who is therefore covered by the Personal Data Authority. It's an independent judgment. It is legally established that the opinion of the Data Protection Officer is independent. So I really had to correct that. Furthermore, we simply will not agree on that point. I have nothing to add to what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u206	No, that's clear. Mrs Leijten, there is a second term. Then you can go through at this point. Perhaps Mrs Belhaj also has a question on the same point. You're gonna have a lot of room. Now I really want to be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u207	I get it. The Minister says what I'm saying is wrong. I have here the hand-out of the sheets we had this morning. It states: the procedure of the LIMC investigation, peer review, hearing and hearing, preliminary report. I am not saying that it would not be independent, but even after this procedure, if such a rigorous report were to be produced, it would have to be done. This is the M.O. The Minister then says: I am far from it. No, the Minister must insist that she refuses to give the Chamber information requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u208	I believe that I have given all the information necessary for the decision-making process. I have nothing to add to what I just said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u209	Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u210	And the Data Protection Officer remains an independent officer, who has to make an independent judgment in the organisation. That's how it's arranged in the law. The report has also been presented to the Personal Data Authority, as it covers the staff member.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u211	I have been on the Committee on Supplements, but I can also remember that over the past few weeks we have talked a lot in this Chamber about how the Chamber does its work, what we expect ministers to do and how we can do our work better. We never want to see that again depend on MPs who are able to play detective. We just want to be able to rely on a minister. That means you say if something goes wrong, "I trusted you. Something went wrong, but now I want to check, huh?" That's not annoying, because that's just the way we do our job. We've asked for a factual account. We've asked for a reconstruction. Mrs Leijten is now asking for something that is important for her to be able to do her job properly. It is not for the Minister to say: I have nothing more to add. It's a request from the parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u212	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u213	The discussions about what we expect to do well, that is what we are talking about. You can now prove what all these recent debates have been about. Actually, it almost looks like things aren't going well, and I want it to be okay. The Chamber now says: "We want the whole story of the facts and not half A4's. We want a whole reconstruction and we want answers to Mrs Leijten's questions about the legal opinions." And then you're supposed to say, "Dear Room, I'm gonna take care of that. And if there's any names, I'm gonna paint them black." That's the question!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u214	I'll look into it. I really need to take a look at that, also to know exactly what those legal opinions, which have been exchanged, mean. I will return to it in second term. Ms Belhaj asked about the recommendations concerning GDPR. We have taken over all the recommendations of the Data Protection Officer. I have just mentioned a number of them. We explicitly include the principles of data protection in the information-driven action policy framework to be drawn up. A final legal framework for action throughout the information domain has been established. That was also given to you as an annex to the documents. We also organise these working groups with lawyers, the GDPR officer and ethical experts. I have answered Mr Van Wijngaarden's questions. Finally, an external agency is going to examine the questions I have not answered just now to ensure compliance with the GDPR in the information activities of the various defence components in order to really ensure once and for all that this cannot happen anymore. It has actually already been discussed, but Mrs Belhaj asked if the LIMC still exists. There is no longer any activity there, but it still exists in itself. I explained that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u215	That is an important point, because every time that Land Information Manoeuvre Centre comes along like a ghost. Is that ghost still out there or not? So I can hear the Minister say quite clearly here: 'They are doing zero activities'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u216	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u217	"They just don't do anything. It is something that still exists on paper and could be brought back to life." Is that how I'm supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u218	There are still a few people left and all they do is process the staff member's advice. It is a Land Information Manoeuvre Centre and the activities we have just discussed are no longer carried out there. This is where the lessons to be learned are processed and whether the IT structure should be built up at all in order to be compliant with the legislation at stake. So there is no operational activity anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u219	Exactly. So no more operational activities. One only carries out the lessons that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u220	And the ICT structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u221	Okay. That's important. I think it would be a good idea to inform the Chamber when it is finished. Then we have it very clearly before this debate. I'm saying that because it caused me confusion all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u222	Okay. Mr Boswijk has just outlined how it went. They are indeed people who go there from different sides. But here's what I want to say. If at the end of the year we can say a little more about how we dealt with all these recommendations and what the follow-up was, I thought, a question from Mr Stoffer and Mrs Belhaj anyway; I do not know whether you were going to do so early. That is actually the point Mrs Belhaj made. Then you can follow what happened. It is not necessarily just about the LIMC, but it has to be implemented throughout the organisation. The debate is of course about the LIMC, but the recommendations are much wider in the organisation, as you have seen. I was thinking at the end of the year, perhaps before the budget debate. Moreover, I do not know when it is planned and whether it is planned at all, but most of the time our budget treatment is somewhere in December. If it is much earlier now, I do not know, but otherwise I would say that we will at least report to you at the beginning of December on what we have done with the recommendations, so that you, too, may say so in response to Mrs Belhaj's justified question; she began to follow the way it went. Mrs Belhaj also asked for a roadmap for the IGO. It is indeed so that Mrs Belhaj from the Defence Vision knows that we are making it. As soon as it's finished, I'll send it to the Chamber. About the PIA, these impact analyses, I've already said a few things. I believe that all the points have been raised. As far as I'm concerned, there's still a cliff-and-ready standing that without a foundation going into work shouldn't have been and shouldn't have been, and that that has been stopped. I hope, like all the members of your Chamber, that the lessons will be learned. We'll send for that, too. I will therefore inform your Chamber in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u223	I had one more question that hasn't been answered, but I'll just repeat it. An article by NRC of 15 November on this issue included a block with a response from the Defence Department. It says: "After reading this article, the Ministry of Defence states that what the LIMC does is allowed, even without a mandate. The reasoning is that the centre only uses public sources, that they cannot be traced back to individuals and that the reports are only distributed internally. Even if the LIMC would like to share the reports externally, according to the Defense Department, there is no 'any legal barrier'."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u224	Well, that doesn't seem right to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u225	Now the PVV knows like no other that not everything the NRC writes is true. But if this really was the word response sent from the Department of Defense to the press, then I would like an explanation. Because we now know, especially at this moment, that this really is a dragon of a reaction and that it is not a word of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u226	Well, it doesn't add up. I do not have the text of 15 November in mind. I can't look up to what's being responded to. But this is not true, because there was no legal basis. We weren't supposed to share. It was shut down in August. There was also a need to collect everything on the basis of public sources. There was no assistance request and there was no MSOB, so that's not true. It's been noted. I'll find out who made that reaction, but for me it's clear that this isn't right. What I told you is true. So the basis was not there and it should not have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u227	No, but I would like to mention this as a major point of interest. Assuming the NRC isn't lying at this point...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u228	That's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u229	...this has been said. Apparently, they tried to cover that case up. We see that the cabinet has been too busy trying to muffle away problems. If this problem comes up, it is of course not good for confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u230	No. You can't tell me that I've gotten rid of this problem. Mr Fritsma himself said it in his speech. This is just not right. I will find out who said that and I will address the person who said that. The only thing I can think of right now is that someone just didn't know well enough, which turned out to be the case with more people in the organization. As a result, we have really had to speed up the implementation of the recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u231	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall continue with the second term of office and give the floor to Mrs Belhaj, D66. You have a third of four minutes, so that's not a lot. You're gonna do it as soon as you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u232	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas at the Land Information Manoeuvre Centre there were no clear boundaries between experiment and assistance;]] [[Whereas it is not clear under which (core) tasks Defence may experiment;]] [[calls on the Government to establish clear frameworks for future experimental environments such as the LIMC, so that it can always be ensured that Defense does not experiment with constitutional tasks or other bases or military-legal frameworks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the GDPR report "Research compliance General Data Protection Regulation Experimenting Environment Country Information Manoeuvre Centre (LIMC)" in Recommendation 2 states that the Catalogue National Operations 2018 should be updated;]] [[Whereas not the armed forces but the intelligence services are responsible for gathering information at home and abroad;]] [[calls on the Government not to implement recommendation 2 of the Data Protection Officer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the underlying purpose of the LIMC was not clear;]] [[Calls on the Government to launch an independent investigation specifically into how the decision-making process concerning both the establishment and performance of the tasks of the LIMC has been conducted, taking into account the military-legal context of the LIMC in relation to the core tasks of the armed forces;]] [[calls on the Government to draw lessons for the future and to suspend all activities of the LIMC during the investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the military has the ambition to work information-driven;]] [[Whereas the activities of the Land Information Manoeuvre Centre have shown that there are no clear legal or operational frameworks for elements of the armed forces wishing to act in an information-driven manner;]] [[noting that the GDPR officer found that the GDPR guidelines were not in order at the LIMC;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a policy vision for information-driven action (IGO) and to forward it to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj, Mr Stoffer, Mr Boswijk and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-184]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj, Mr Leijten and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-185]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj, Mr Stoffer, Mr Boswijk and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-186]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj, Mr Stoffer and Mr Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-187]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u233	Mr President, thank you for your support. Unfortunately, I had to file these motions. I insist that I still hope that the Minister will send the reconstruction and the facts. I've been through it several times: if we don't get that, there's a Wob request, I have to read it in the paper, I have to get angry. And I don't want to; I just want to know what's going on. So once again, I would ask the Minister to consider whether she does not wish to send additional information to the Chamber. I noted today: there was no request for assistance, there was no basis and the Minister was not aware. She apologized. Let me hope the armed forces learn from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u234	Thank you. Take a sip of water. Then we will go to Mr Van Wijngaarden, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his self-criticism and reflection. I think that's exactly what we need. In the first period of time, I referred to the facts as 'a bit short', but I think it has been supplemented during the course of the debate, for example in the legal debate. Because it is at some point, especially in a crisis situation, that legal questions can be raised, but that they have to end up in the right office and there must be room for them. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is not up to the armed forces to take action without an adequate legal basis;]] [[bearing in mind the recommendations made in response to the unlawful activities of the Land Information Manoeuvre Centre;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen the position of legal experts within Defence and to ensure that they can inform the Defence Summit and political leadership of illegal activities in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Wijngaarden, Boswijk, Belhaj, Leijten, Kathmann, Stoffer and Van Meijeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-188]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u236	Mr President, thank you. I thank the Minister for all the answers he has given. It is clear that this Defence project has really crossed boundaries and that this falls within the category "one time, but never again." I do not have any motions, but I should like briefly to make two points. The first point is that it took no less than eight months to deal with this issue. The LIMC has been collecting false information for eight months. It's just weird that no one in the Defense Department felt called to inform the minister about this activity. It's also odd that the minister himself didn't hold a finger on the wrist. She did say it couldn't be done, of course. That makes sense, but of course it's more crucial than that. It is, of course, the role of the Chamber to control the government, but if the government itself does not know exactly what is happening in crucial areas within a ministry, then you have an unworkable situation. I'd like a brief response to that. The second point I would like to make is the reaction that went to the press from the Defence Department, namely that nothing was going on. That's bad, because this was a mistake. Of course, you have to come up with an informed reaction, and this reaction seems to be that a problem was being muffled away, at least that was the intention. Of course, that also falls into the category "once, but never again." I can leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u237	Thank you, Mr Fritsma. I now turn to Mrs Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u238	Mr. Chairman. As a non-Defension spokesperson, I have learned quite a bit about something coming up on a higher deck, about awareness and about preparedness and all of you. This is a kind of culture that comes from 'we can, so we do', and that is about fundamental rights in this case. That is why it is so important that we learn from this. What made it happen? Where did that go wrong? I didn't get an answer to that when I really tried. Why didn't the legal advice mention what went wrong? Sure there was an emergency flag waving in August, because then those reports didn't go out of DOD. Why then is it decided that it is not shared with the politically responsible and ultimately the government? I would like the Minister himself to have an analysis of this. If you don't learn from this, but apologize, it happens again. That is why I would also like to see the reconstruction of these legal advices. I really hope the minister's just gonna give it to me. I'm not interested in Jantje, Pietje and Klaasje. It's about seeing the mechanism. I had another request. The Minister didn't go into that. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the LIMC was established in March 2020 without the knowledge of the Minister of Defence;]] [[noting that the LIMC carried out activities for which it had no competence;]] [[noting that these activities concern the collection of information on parts of the Dutch population;]] [[Whereas the collection of information on the Dutch population is not and should not become a task of armed forces;]] [[calls on the Government to lift the LIMC,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-189]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my speech I started with the following question. We've been here more than once in the last few weeks, because both municipalities and NCTV did the same thing. I call that spying on civilians. The Minister gives different qualifications, but that is precisely the crux. We don't want to bashen anyone here, not attack the minister bashen or the Defense Department on how the work is done. The point is that we do not have a good framework in the Netherlands and we do not have a proper review when the fundamental right to privacy is violated. I ask not to come up with answers like: "Yes, but only open data has been used. There hasn't been any spying. It's not really meant to be. The basis wasn't there, but maybe a little if we were on open dates..."That just doesn't work anymore. The issue is really more fundamental. That is why I would very much like to ask whether this Minister would like to join the club which has already been formed by Minister Ollongren, Minister Dekker and Minister Grapperhaus. They all want to look at how things could have gone wrong and how people thought they had powers that they didn't have, following the same debates on other bodies that we have had today. How can we come, if a new set of tools is needed to do the job properly and to violate that privacy but then that you can ensure it in the law... What tools are needed, including in the Defense Department? How do we guarantee that in the law? How do we ensure that there is a proper framework? And how do we ensure that this can be properly monitored and tested? I hope this minister wants to join that club. I think it would be best if we park the letter that follows from this club in the new digital committee. There's a reason he's here. We should have a good talk there, so that we can get this point by point. I also believe that I agree with all the motions tabled by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u240	Thank you. A great apology towards Mr Stoffer, whom I have just skipped. So ruffle, ruffle, ruffle... there's Mr. Stoffer!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u241	Where work is done, mistakes are made, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u242	Sure. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u243	Thank you, and I certainly don't blame you. That's how I've been able to think about it a little longer. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering all my first-term questions. Thank you also for the apologies that have been offered because something did not go well here. However, I still have one hook on this debate. That is the hook that we discussed in the interrupting debate, which began with the questions that Mrs Belhaj asked. You're gonna do situational awareness, situational awareness for a particular task you're doing, and you're gonna figure out that you're actually gonna do something completely different, which isn't right. We agree on that, but the Minister says she doesn't understand why either. I think we should not want to understand that either, but we should get it out of the way. That is why I supported Mrs Belhaj's motion on further external research. I think it is very important that we get that investigation done, so I hope that a majority of the House will vote in favour of that motion. That it should not happen is clear, but it should not happen again and we need to understand how we keep getting out of it. That is good for us, that is good for society, but that is also very good for the defence industry itself. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u244	Thank you. I call Mr Kuzu van Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u245	I would in turn like to thank the Minister for the answers she has given in the first term. Of course, I would also like to thank her for seeing that there has been a bit of a fatal error here, for which she has also apologized and made it clear that this should never happen. Following Mrs Kathmann's speech, too, I said in my first term: is it not a good idea to start inter-departmental work, because we do encounter the same problem in several departments? I think that a working group, initially an official working group, can get on with it and inform several ministers about it, so that we, as a Chamber, will eventually get more information about it. Mr. Chairman. I also think it is important that we stick our noses in the organisation of the defence. The Minister has indicated that she is going to conduct external independent investigations. I think it is wise that we should not leave that at one moment, but that we should choose two moments for that. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Report on Research Compliance with General Data Protection Regulation LIMC contains useful recommendations;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to review periodically whether the recommendations have been sufficiently incorporated within the Ministry of Defence;]] [[Calls on the Government to carry out two independent audits within the Defence Organisation on the basis of the recommendations of the Research Compliance Report General Data Protection Regulation LIMC, the first of which will be carried out before the end of this calendar year and the second before the end of 2022, and to forward the results of these independent audits to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Belhaj.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-190]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u246	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u247	Thank you. Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u248	Thank you. We have now had to learn three times from the media in just a few months that certain public services are illegally following citizens. This raises the question whether these are the only cases that have just come to light in a few months or whether this is perhaps just the tip of the iceberg. That needs to be clarified. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that several times recently several public services, including the Royal Army, the NCTV and various municipalities, have unlawfully followed innocent civilians;]] [[noting that action was always taken against these abuses only after they were brought to light by journalists;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to exclude as soon as possible the involvement of other public administrations in such illegal practices;]] [[calls on the Government to proactively identify which public services follow citizens without a clear legal basis, and to inform the Court as soon as possible about the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meijeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-191]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u249	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u250	Thank you. Finally, Mr Boswijk of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for the apologies and the clear answers. During the debate I had to think about the game stratego. There you have a very clear role for a scout and a very clear role for a spy. Yet in modern times you can see that these roles are becoming more and more interwoven. That has everything to do with the fact that we have a digital world, in which a explorer physically but of course also on Google will see what the situation looks like. I've been on Wikipedia a lot myself, and I just heard Mr. Stoffer ask how you'd end up there. I sometimes have to sit on Wikipedia for hours and think: how did I ever get here, where did I ever start? So I do understand how that goes in practice. That is why I have also tabled these motions by Mrs Belhaj. I really do see a clear role for the LIMC in the future, but we need to better frame these tasks and make clear agreements on them. That is why I think it is very important that this research should take place, but I do see its clear added value for the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u252	Mr Stoffer has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u253	If Mr. Boswijk is on the Internet on Saturday and is watching Wikipedia for a while, I think: fine. I'll let him do it here, too, 'cause he's got to get his goals. But if you work for the DOD, you're just gonna be on duty for a couple of hours. Does Mr. Boswijk think it makes sense that you spend hours watching Wikipedia because you happen to see all sorts of connections and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u254	I think a modern scout... Of course, you have the scouts who are going to look physically. They'll see if our machines fit down the street at all. The situation awareness has just been mentioned. But that best scout can of course also just on his phone and on Google see if there is another way, whether it is one-way traffic and how many inhabitants this place has. Wikipedia can be very useful for that again. In the past, the scout had a role in which he was physically in the field and the one with the fastest horse, but the modern scout has a telephone with him on which he also looks for things. Then, of course, the scrolls are mixed very quickly. My observation is that very soon you will be mixing your role with a task that is not really yours. That is why I think it is right that we should have this debate. It sucks that it went wrong. That shouldn't have happened. That is also the reason for the CDA to table these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u255	That is, of course, a fine reflection, but my question is whether Mr Boswijk really thinks it is desirable for someone working at the Defense Department to watch Wikipedia for hours, where you think: what else does that have to do with it? Because that may have happened in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u256	Whether those hours should be on Wikipedia... I rather think a specialist should do what he thinks is most useful and use the tools he thinks are most useful, whether that's Wikipedia or Google, or that these are scientific documents he consults through a digital library. The point is that he makes the assessment whether it is an effective method or not. At the same time, it has also been proven that these best employees were not aware of the GDPR's laws and regulations. Well, well, the Minister has already said: they are already in the process of doing so. I think it is a much more fundamental question how we will better frame it in the future in order to avoid this at all times. But I will not say: there must now be a motion to ban defence workers from watching Wikipedia during working hours. No, I think we should leave that consideration to the specialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u257	That last question, whether we should table a motion on it, was not my question. My question was whether Mr Boswijk considered it desirable. He doesn't answer that directly. I personally wouldn't like it, but we'll have another cup of coffee about that. Clear as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u258	I'd like to ask a question about that. Why doesn't Mr. Stoffer think that's desirable? If a specialist makes the assessment and thinks "I need to get certain information through a quick method," why doesn't Mr. Stoffer trust that employee with these possibilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u259	Actually, you're asking another question. Of course, that's not how it's supposed to be. But if it has a purpose, then one of my defense personnel can always be on Wikipedia. Because then it has a purpose. But the point was that Mr. Boswijk put that in the frame that he sometimes looks at it and then comes from one to the other. Here, of course, something has happened that you think should not be done and it has nothing to do with it as far as we know, but that still comes from further research. Then I think that's where I don't think it's going well. So the way it's happened now, it shouldn't be. That is my answer to the second question. I think that Mr Boswijk is looking at this differently, but we do not need to put that down to the extreme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u260	No, I think so, too. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u261	I think we're in agreement, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u262	I think Mr Boswijk is a sort of forest ranger who has said: no one should fire in the forest, because that is dangerous and the general safety is at stake. Someone's gonna light a fire, apologize and say, "Sorry, sorry, I don't know how it happened either, but suddenly something happened." Then Mr Boswijk says: you know what, you can continue to burn fire from now on, even though we have previously established that this is not good in the public interest. Does Mr Boswijk understand this parallel?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u263	I understand you're making him this way. I don't think the comparison's quite going to work out, to be honest. It's always hard to go along in an example. So I don't do that either, because that's always crooked. But I think we have a changing world and it's a search for the tools the military has to protect us in the public interest. That is what it is for all of us, and for Defence in particular, especially in the exceptional situation that we were in last year and which we are still suffering from. This is where the whole thing went wrong. We agree. You say, and we may take that tool away from them, that we do not want it anymore. I think: how can we improve it, and how can we train the armed forces so that they deal with these tools properly and responsibly within the laws and regulations? I'm not in it like you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u264	I find that really very difficult to hear from someone who belongs to Pieter Omtzigt's party, who wrote a new social contract and who says that the rule of law should be proud, and above all that residents should be able to trust the government. Here, the DOD has created an instrument for which there is no legal basis. The minister can't explain why that was necessary. It's all here. You don't need that for intelligence or an image. Then it's completely derailed. And then the CDA says: well, maybe this instrument will still be useful in the future, so we keep it. It was unlawful and even more unlawful in its application. And then the CDA says, "Yeah, we're gonna legalize that..."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u265	Another response from Mr Boswijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u266	I find it really incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u267	Some kind of frame is being sketched here that I really don't go along with at all. Let me be clear: we have scouts in the army. Those are specialists who know exactly what is needed. In fact, Mrs Leijten says that they have made a mistake; it is a mistake, and we really need to abolish these explorations altogether. I say we have scouts and we have a new situation, a digital world that we didn't have before. I'm sure I can see parts there that the scouts of our armed forces are allowed to use. I also see a clear demarcation where they have violated fundamental rights. That's why I'm filing motions with D66. We therefore see the same error. I also see that outrageous mistakes have been made. You will draw a different conclusion from that. But you are not going to blame me for violating fundamental rights, because that is not what I am doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u268	Mrs. Leijten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u269	This is a debate in which the Minister apologized, apologized, apologized. We all wanted to know what the reconstruction was. We're gonna talk about that. You even want an independent investigation. But then you say: because she concludes that it was and remains unlawful, and we do not need it, Mrs Leijten wants to abolish the scouts. No, we don't need it, because we already have scouts. We're being warned about the surveillance state it's creating yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u270	So, Mrs Leijten, you disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u271	Yes, but I find it annoying that my question of why is answered with a you-bowl: yes, Mrs Leijten wants to abolish everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u272	I'd like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u273	Very briefly, because this gets bogged down in repetitions, thanks to Mr. Stoffer, who started it...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u274	The Minister has just said that this role lies with the AIVD and the STIVD. I think exploring through the digital highway, which is relatively new, should be a method that the DOD should be able to use. DOD knows that certain trucks, vehicles or units have questions, and can use the Internet to answer those questions. To have those questions handled by the AIVD or the STUDY I find a completely different task. We really need to separate those tasks. It went wrong. There's been by-catches. That shouldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u275	This is really becoming a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u276	It's good to notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u277	On both sides, by the way. Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u278	My surprise is another one anyway. Mr Boswijk's name is also under the independent investigation requested. We've had a very independent investigation here. We've had an extensive account of the facts. We have been able to debate all afternoon with the minister of your own party. What do you want? Why don't you just ask the minister of your own party? What do you want to do with another independent investigation that has not been said this afternoon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u279	First of all, I do not think it is relevant that it is my own minister. I think I have to decide what's necessary for myself. I can see in the debate that there are still some notes and that there is still some room. I sincerely trust the military and the minister to have informed us well. That's why I dare to do that independent investigation. I see that there is still a hint of uncertainty around it. I am truly convinced of the usefulness and necessity of the LIMC. If this investigation is necessary for that purpose, I feel that this is how I shall move for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u280	Mr Van Wijngaarden briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u281	I hear you say: I trust that we are well informed, but still an additional investigation. My question concerns the motion on the clear framework that should be set. We heard the Minister say today that it did not go well. You yourself said it was wrong. You can only say that something is wrong when you've tested something against a standard. There is this standard: there must be a request from the civil authorities for assistance. Then those rules apply; that has been explained. There must be a clear mandate for missions and exercises. So that standard is there. Which frameworks are to be created that are not there now? If you don't think those frameworks are there, how can you say it was wrong? You can only say that something is wrong when you have checked against the standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u282	What went wrong, of course, is the bycatch that was there. That's what the Minister himself says. I think that is a very clear conclusion. We have new tools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u283	But the same frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u284	Yeah, but I think there's still a grey area: how far can a Defense officer, a scout, go without hitting the spy's grounds, just to stay in stratego terms? We all know in our sense that it has been wrong. That by-catch should not have been allowed, but where exactly that limit is, it is, frankly, worth an investigation to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u285	Finally, Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u286	Finally. I think that by constantly asking for additional investigations and constantly declaring things into a grey area, we, as a Chamber, are themselves cooperating in making things less clear, but well, that is my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u287	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u288	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm gonna suspend for ten minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u289	I will reopen the meeting and give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u290	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contributions. I will answer a few more questions and then give the assessment of the motions. Mr Fritsma asked another question about the wrist. Of course, you can assume that will happen. I have already said that the reaction to the press has been repeated once again in your second term of office. It will undoubtedly be well-intentioned in the context of that time, but it is not right. Mrs Leijten's points are also included in the motions. Mrs Kathmann had another point about what she called "the club" of ministers Ollongren, Dekker and Grapperhaus. I'll look into it. I myself understand that there is a desire to say something about this before December. We will take part in this in a broader sense. How your Chamber arranges this and with which committee, of course, is up to you. Whether that will be a new committee or otherwise, we will support it. I think the other points were raised in the motions. I would like to begin with the motion on part No. 184 of Belhaj c.s. with a request for setting up frameworks for experimental environments. In itself, Mr Van Wijngaarden was right: the law is the law and it must be applied. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber to look into that in those cases where you are going to experiment. I indicated in my response that we are also doing an external investigation to see what is being asked in the investigation. I'll get back to you on that. On the motion in part No. 184 I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 185 by Mrs Belhaj, Mrs Leijten and Mrs Kuzu, no, Mr Kuzu, I am sorry. Luckily, he's not here. Maybe he's listening after all, I see in the faces of members. In the motion, you request that recommendation 2 of the independent data protection officer not be implemented. I find that complicated. If I understand correctly, you explain this: before recommendation 2 can be implemented, these other things must be done. Recommendation 2 concerns the inclusion of this new instrument in the MSOB catalogue. In his speech, Mr Boswijk pointed out that these instruments are developing, given the changing threats. Such a catalogue of military assistance is constantly being provided with new instruments. I can also mention examples of instruments that have come into play. So in itself, it is actually a very good recommendation from the Data Protection Officer to include it in the MSOB catalogue. If you look at it that way, I should discourage the motion. If you would like to change her so that the catalogue will not be modified until the investigation has taken place, it will be easier for me to live with it. Otherwise, I would have to dissuade her, because I think it is important that it is properly secured in that catalogue. It really says "not to be executed" in the text. I would really regret that, even for those who have to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u291	If in fact the motion in part No. 184 and the motion in part No. 186 on doing the research so that we understand better how it is done, then recommendation 2 can be carried out. That is why I said 'not now', because otherwise they will continue. I would first like to give the Chamber an opportunity to understand and find something about it before it has been worked out in the catalogue and we have nothing more to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u292	But my text just says "not."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u293	Perhaps I should correct that: "The government requests recommendation 2 of the Data Protection Officer to carry out the investigation only after the investigation." If you're gonna do it already, it's gonna start already. I think we should know more before we should want to. So then I want to replace "not" with "not until after the investigation."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u294	Mrs. Belhaj, I'm just as strict. You will have to do so by means of an amended motion at the Registry. I am not in favour of changing the interrupting microphone dicta here. If you want to change that, we can ask the Minister's opinion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u295	If I don't, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. If it's meant to be "only after the investigation" I could leave the verdict to the Chamber. In this form, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u296	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u297	Then the motion to part No. 186. I have already indicated that we are already doing an investigation ourselves, including externally, to improve a number of things towards the future. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. That external research is independent and is mainly about learning from what happened. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u298	The first part of the request contains the military-legal context. Can I see that lessons are really being drawn from the legal discussion that has taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u299	Yes. I would like to broaden it and involve the legal debate. That is what your questions were about, and we have just discussed them in the debate. I just talked to my people about that. That research is already intended, but if we extend it now to the legal context and that discussion, we should learn lessons from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u300	That applies to the motion in part No. 186.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u301	Yeah, the motion to part No. 186. Then the motion to part No. 187. I said myself that we will be steering a policy vision on information-driven action. We'd already announced that in the Defence Vision. So I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. This is what we're up to anyway. I can't mention the deadline now, but it's not there either. The motion in part No. 187 gets judgment, then, Chamber. The motion in part No. 188 is also about the position of legal experts and ensuring that the Defence Summit and leadership are informed in good time. I don't think anyone can argue with that. That's just gotta happen. I myself indicated that that did not go well. I can judge this motion by Mr Van Wijngaarden and others. So leave it to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 189 by Mrs Leijten and Mr Jasper van Dijk I really must be discouraged. It calls on the government to lift the LIMC. The debate clearly shows why it is extremely important for the first and second main tasks and that there are now no activities on the other tasks. I would therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 190 is the motion by Mr Kuzu and Mrs Belhaj. I thought at first that the motion was superfluous, but I can't do that anymore, so I know. The Data Protection Officer, who, as you know, is independent, has indicated in the report that she herself is going to look every two months and that she is going to do so with the Personal Data Authority. That is a form of independent audits. So you're actually getting more than you're asking. Since it is unnecessary, I must formally discourage the motion. But I have no objection to it either, because it's already happening. Then let me leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u302	That is ultimately up to you. You can also discourage the motion if it already happens, within the framework of self-discipline. That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u303	The motion in part No. 191 by Mr Van Meijeren I am going to dissuade. It's not what happened. It has nothing to do with what's been discussed. I would advise against this motion. Then I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u304	There are still questions from Mrs Leijten and Mr Van Meijeren. First up, Mrs. Leijten. Or is Mr Van Meijeren's question about the motion? I call Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u305	I hear the Minister saying that she is dissuading my motion because this is not what happened and this is not about what the debate has been about. What, then, didn't the Minister say happened in the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u306	The first two observations I'm going to leave for a moment are what they are. It is stated in the recitals that it should be ruled out as soon as possible that other public administrations are also involved in such illegal practices. As you know, these are not necessarily illegal practices. You have received the report from the official. This should not have happened, because the foundation was not good. However, it was with the best of intentions. Other organisations and public services are not specified; that is not my concern. The motion calls on the government to proactively identify which public services follow citizens. That didn't happen here. I explained this in detail in the debate. It was by-catch of the phenomenon analysis. As I said, there is no legal basis. This is not in line with what I believe has been exchanged in the debate. Moreover, I am not dealing with other public services and it is very little specific. That's why I'm just going to have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u307	I am surprised that the Minister says: there has been no illegal activity here. The fact is that there has been a violation of the law. Information on citizens has been processed without a legal basis. I call that illegal. If the Minister does not call that illegal, I am very curious what she calls it. And I find it very easy for the Minister to hide behind the remark that she is not about other public services. The motion is addressed to the government and the government is indeed competent to take stock of whether information is being collected elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u308	Sure. On the first point, I would certainly like to agree with Mr Van Meijeren. I indicated how I looked at it and that something happened to it. I don't deal with other public services with illegal practices. That's what this is about. From my ministerial responsibility, I can only say something about the organisations that I am dealing with. That's what I was gonna say. It was a little short, Mr. Chairman, but I had to make you some kind of speed. I also agree that there has been extrajudicial work. There's no misunderstanding about that. I don't care about those other public services, and I don't need them because of my responsibility. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u309	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u310	Yeah, rounding it up. The minister says she's not about other public services. As I said, the motion is addressed to the government. It is very common for a minister to judge motions on behalf of the government. Isn't there a lot of government agencies that are in charge of the government, which it can take stock of, or even more so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u311	I told you, I don't need to do that. That's why we dissuade the motion. Those we talked about today have been interfered with. That is where I believe, although on the late side, I have said in detail that what should not have happened was stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u312	Mr. Van Meijeren, you've already had four ways...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u313	Well, I only need a few seconds to say at least that I am pleased that the Minister acknowledges that she does not need an inventory, rather than that it does not happen and that she is not responsible. Now we all know that the Minister does not need to take stock of whether this is happening anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u314	With other government agencies, Chairman. The Minister's individual ministerial responsibility is limited to what is stated in the Minister's budget. That's a very interesting piece of learning. I am personally responsible for that, and that is what I said something about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u315	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u316	In my opinion, the GDPR-trading of public services is indeed an assignment of the Chamber to the government, but it is mainly embraced by the chapter Unfamiliar injustice. Anyway, I'm gonna leave that discussion for now. I also asked the Minister to get the legal advice. The Minister would come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u317	I wanted to extend that investigation to the legal opinions.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So I want to broaden that investigation. Then it's just taken in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u318	But that's not meeting the Chamber's information request. You say, "I'm gonna have an investigation done and wait." No, I'm asking for that fact story I was talking to the Minister about. You can't take this seriously. I also think it would be good for the Minister himself to extend that. And I'm asking for those pieces now. This is also a discussion that is often held: the Chamber asks for documents and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u319	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u320	... because there's research going on, we can't get them. But we're just supposed to get them, despite that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u321	Sure. But I thought this would be enough for you. I'll see if I can provide you with anything that hasn't been named in those documents, or that hasn't been sent in yet. I will send it to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u322	Thank you for that. In doing so, I would like to advise the Minister to look closely at what is in the reconstruction and the fact story and whether this can not be supplemented. That can also just be helpful for self-conception. What can just be applied and doesn't need to wait for all kinds of research that are now going to run?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u323	Yes. By the way, I very much agree with Mrs Leijten. For this reason, the report of the Data Protection Officer, which contains a whole process, has been used and we have used these recommendations. Once every two months, audits are carried out on how it works now, how it works and how we control it from our side. We are not waiting for that at all. So if that were to seem like that to you, it would be a misunderstanding. On the contrary, we have taken this very actively and said that we are going to do so immediately, because this must not happen anywhere anymore. You have also seen the measures. I have mentioned the GDPR officials, the legal function, the external viewing, the audits, etc. So it is not so different that there is a misunderstanding that we are not acting on it, or that we would be waiting for external research. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Otherwise, I wouldn't have said that I really didn't think this could be the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u324	To take away the misunderstanding that I would think that I was not taken seriously: there is no misunderstanding, because I would have had this debate differently. It's the reconstruction that matters to me. How did this happen, where didn't flags come up? Don't wait for all kinds of research, but look at it yourself, try to make the reconstruction and send it to the Chamber as honestly as possible. That's my advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u325	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u326	I have just said that I would look at it and do it. I think I have come to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u327	Yes, then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-26-tweedekamer-9.u328	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I thank my colleagues and thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
