ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35367, Amendment of Book 2 of the Civil Code in connection with the convening of a reflection period by the board of a stock exchange company.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Frentrop on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have before us a bill which amounts to protection against dismissal for the best-paid workers of the Netherlands. It concerns the directors of large multinational listed companies. If one shareholder says "that driver may not be doing well; perhaps we should vote on dismissal," then the proposal is that the driver may say that he should consider whether dismissal is in the company's interest. If that director considers that it is not in the company's interest, shareholders are not allowed to vote on this for a maximum of 250 days. Their voting rights shall be suspended. Here in the First Chamber we always look at the quality of legislative proposals, at the necessity and proportionality of legislative proposals: what problem is solved with this law? To this end, we must first look at how many companies are actually involved. I have checked this: there are about 1.9 million companies in the Netherlands as of 1 January. But that's not what this is all about. This is one tenth of these companies, 157 listed companies. They could make use of this. But half of these companies, to be precise, already have a controlling shareholder, a large shareholder. So there is no need for that at all, because there can be no activist shareholder who says: you must do what this is aimed at. There is already a large shareholder controlling the shareholders' meeting. So when you vote, the big shareholder just tells you what it's supposed to be like. Of the remaining 74 companies listed on the stock exchange, 59 have, in addition to all kinds of protection structures which make this type of action virtually impossible, also the so-called binding appointment by the supervisory board in the statutes. So angry shareholders can never appoint a new director there at all, because that can only be done by the supervisory board. In short, there are 14 companies left for which this proposal could be useful. That, of course, raises the question of why there is a legislative proposal for up to 14 companies. For that, a look in the Acts of the House of Representatives helps. When this was discussed there Mr.Nijboer told us he will come here later; then we can check out what happened in 2017: "Really, the entire government summit of the Netherlands came to politics and said: save us, help us. They came to see us. I had a very exceptional moment, because Minister Kamp prevented early. He never did, but he was a missionary, and there had to be an important protection law in the Chamber. A letter from May 2017, in the middle of the formation process. Everything was controversial, but we had to and would protect our companies." That was in 2017, when there was some panic in the top of the Dutch administration through possible takeovers of large companies. It's about such small numbers that I have to fall into casuism. Which companies were involved? The Minister mentioned in the discussion the names of Akzo and Fugro, and Unilever was also mentioned extensively in the House of Representatives. This bill could possibly apply to these three leading Dutch companies. It could help their future, in theory. Mr. Chairman. Let's go over these three from 2017. Unilever, the biggest of them all, came on October 1, 2018, a year after this panic, with a press release, in which it said: Unilever has decided never to use the new law camp, which must protect companies from takeovers. That was because Unilever was in discussion with his shareholders at the time, because Unilever wanted to establish his head office in the Netherlands. Especially the British shareholders thought that we shouldn't have that weird law camp. Unilever didn't think that was necessary either and, quite unusually, issued a press release on it. Then number two, Fugro. Boskalis, a large shareholder of Fugro......................................................................................................................................... This is also mentioned by the Minister in the debate in the Lower House. Fugro didn't think that was such a good idea. That doesn't require the law, because the judge has already forbidden it. So this whole proposal never came on the agenda with Fugro. There's no need for that law. Moreover, the board of Fugro has also changed its mind. The then CEO said that Fugro couldn't join a construction company, but the new CEO, Mr Mark Heine, has now abolished the requested protection structure, plus one. That wasn't necessary either. He said in an interview in November: if that is beneficial to our shareholders, then we want to become part of a larger company. So Fugro doesn't need this law either. That leaves AkzoNobel. There, too, a new chairman of the Management Board has taken office. He said the following in an interview in August 2020 at an interviewer's question. The interviewer was former Prime Minister Balkenende; but well, that's for history. The question was: "In the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, you must do justice to all stakeholders. In the Anglo-Saxon model, the shareholder rules. Do you experience great differences there as a driver and as a commissioner?" What did Mr Thierry Vanlancker say? That's a Belgian, but it doesn't matter. He said, "I think that difference is shiny." He then said: "I am not in favour of the Dutch acquisition period of 180 or 250 days in terms of model." Mr. Chairman. These three companies have been mentioned as examples of the fourteen companies for which this could be useful. Those three have all informed us that this law is not necessary. That brings me to my first question to the Minister, because he thinks the law is necessary. As part of the question of how we are going to evaluate it, he says that he expects this law to be used on average five times a year. That seems to me to be on the high side. I have looked at how many times in the past shareholders have put an item on the agenda of a listed company whose board said you shouldn't do that. I went back to July 1, 2013. Since then, six attempts have been made by shareholders to get an item on the agenda. That was rejected five times and accepted once. Once, the board thought it was a good idea. How many times has a proposal from the shareholders come on the agenda to fire a commissioner or director? All times that has been tried, it is prevented by the judge. It has happened zero times since 2013 that at the request of the shareholders on the agenda of a general meeting of the stock exchange fund the proposal was: we should fire that director or commissioner. Zero times in seven years. Then why does the Minister expect it to happen no more than five times a year in the future? We're going to evaluate it in three years. It seems to me that zero times a year should be expected. Therefore, on the basis of past data and what companies themselves say, this law seems unnecessary to me. We must then look at the quality of the law. Could this law do any damage if we didn't take it? This could, of course, be done first of all if shareholders wanted to put something on the agenda that could be blocked by this law by the board. It could be that the shareholder might be right and that the driver he wants to get rid of is indeed doing badly. That's possible; at least, I think so. My question to the Minister is: could that be possible? Is it theoretically possible that if the shareholder says that a driver does not function in the interests of the company and the board says that dismissal of that driver is not in the interests of the company, the board is wrong? My next question to the Minister is how he will evaluate whether there has been any damage. If using this period of reflection could cause damage, namely by allowing a bad situation to last for 250 days, how are we going to measure it? And more specifically, what if the reflection period is invoked zero times over the next three years, as expected, does the Minister think that the bill has worked well, or could it have done badly and harmed? How do we know that? So, how's the minister gonna measure it? And more specifically, how's he gonna measure it if it's not used? So how's he gonna measure the effect? I am asking all the more because the intention of the bill is to have a deterrent effect. The aim is to prevent shareholders from putting something on the agenda that is uncomfortable for the board. If that deterrent effect were to work, it would happen even less often than it is happening now. Less than zero can't really be. Then there will be few such proposals, because then investors say: I am not going to try to change the policy of this company in which I sit; I am selling the shares and I am going to let it go. Then the company's in a bad way. That's damage, too. How is the Minister going to measure the damage in the three-year evaluation of the attempts to deter them? Then I have three technical questions. The bill is also intended to play a role in a public bid. In reply to the VVD's question, where an offer is essential to the company's interests, which must be determined by the court, the Minister has actually indicated two possibilities: a hostile takeover in which the bidder announces the dismantling of the NV and the termination of its operations, e.g. a proposal to divest a significant part of the company. This kind of thing doesn't occur in my memory either. My question to the Minister is: is the bill only intended for hostile takeovers where these two additional conditions apply? Is it therefore intended for the situation that an announcement has been made to dismantle the NV and terminate its operations, or is it intended to stop all hostile takeovers? What about a regular bid without a split-up? So can the board call in time to think about it? My next technical question: if an offer has been made, if it has been respected and the bidder has received the majority of the shares, can the board still invoke the reflection period? The Minister said: no, 25% is not allowed. But at 51%, it's okay. My last technical question concerns companies with large shareholders, such as Heineken, in which Heineken Holding has 51% of the shares. That is where the board already knows in advance what the outcome of a vote at the shareholders' meeting will be, because that large shareholder ensures the continuity of the company. If there is such a large shareholder, can the board also call for reflection, although that is de facto absurd? Mr. Chairman. Then I have a broader point. In his explanatory statement, the Minister often refers to the so-called Rhineland model. He says that Dutch companies are characterized by the Rhineland model. I dare to doubt that. I mentioned earlier in a written consultation with the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs that the term 'Rhineland model' is a little vague. This was then about criteria for aid to individual companies. From the written discussion it emerged that the ministers and I agreed that this criterion of the Rhineland-Palatinate model was so vague that you should not use it. Nor is it found in Dutch company law or securities law. So I'd like to be careful with that term "Rhineland model." I do understand what it means, and I am not against it, and I also know where it comes from. I'd like to check with the Minister to see if he knows that, too. Does the Minister agree with me that the term "Rhineland model" was devised by Mr Albert in 1991? My next question is: does the Minister know that this model is not about companies, but about economic organization in countries as a whole? It is also about wage formation, public transport, health care and many more things. This is also evident from the definition of the Rhine model, as given by Mr Albert himself on page 183 of the Dutch translation of his work. In this book, he says: "What I call "the Rhineland model" is a modern updated version of the social democratic ideal." That's the Rhineland model according to its inventor. This brings me to my final question to the Minister: does this cabinet believe that listed companies in the Netherlands should pursue the social democratic ideal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. My heart immediately started to beat faster when I saw that the Bill of Appeals would be discussed in plenary by the board of stock exchange companies in this First Chamber. Ever since I was a student, and especially since I was 20 years old, we've been talking here about the year 1987.I've developed a huge fascination for this subject and everything that has to do with the hostile bid that shareholders champion and CEO Elsevier Pierre Vinken put out on the Kluwer group that fell asleep at the time. During the preparation of my contribution, I also examined Chapter 28 of Pierre Vinken's particularly voluminous biography, written by fellow minister Frentrop, which deals in particular with this pioneering episode of 1987 for Dutch stock exchange companies. The brain surgeon Vinken, a competent outsider who did not come from the traditional Dutch on-kent-ons-nomenklatura, where at that time, and unfortunately still today, the top of the Dutch business community is often recruited, was opposed to Kluwer's smug somewhat regentesque corpsbal Alberdingk Thijm. It was a fascinating summer, I can assure the Minister. I followed that with great interest back then. In the summer of 1987 this takeover battle became more and more intense. Elsevier almost gained control of Kluwer and was very close to a majority stake. It was literally just a few shares. The last shares of Kluwer went on that last Friday afternoon, when the bid ended, for 20,000 guilders over the counter, in a final offensive by Vinken to get above 50% in Kluwer, but Elsevier didn't make it. It was a very close call. Years later the world of merger and acquisition specialists talked about this summer and this acquisition spectacle. Afterwards, Vinken publicly stated that the biggest mistake he had made in his career and in this takeover fight was that he had not hired one of the great American investment banks that did not look at a few million, but the Dutch MeesPierson, who at the end of the battle began to herbalize typically Dutch. For a few tens of millions more guilders it was still the good old golden age, Chairman... had succeeded the bid on Kluwer and Elsevier might have become a great global player. After the failed bid Elsevier later merged with the British Reed and ended up as a stock exchange fund more outside the spotlight. Kluwer fled in a panic in the arms of businessmate Wolters and willingly took over to get rid of the attacker Elsevier. That is now the Wolters Kluwer group. In that summer of 1987 I studied economics in Groningen. I was sure that I wanted to work in this market of corporate control. And that is what I have done over the past 30 years, first as a lawyer and then in the international financial world, always in the field of mergers and acquisitions. Hence my interest in this bill. What is the underlying problem that this bill is supposed to solve? This bill was introduced several years ago, after Dutch stock exchange companies such as Unilever and Akzo were targeted by moderate management, certainly by international standards, by foreign parties who saw plenty of potential for improving the performance of these companies. Mr. President, say you put one of your accommodation units for sale. You hire a friendly VVD broker, put it on funda and many buyers report for this undoubtedly attractive object. There is one caveat: if the buyer makes an offer, the seller may call in an equal period of 250 days. How many buyers are still interested in your housing unit, I ask. The same applies to the market for corporate control. In other words, who's in charge in a listed company? The risk of this bill is that it will result in a situation of survival of the unfittest, some kind of anti-darwinistic legislation, to protect a couple of comfortable nestled, complacent old boys and girls. Mr. Chairman. With the party I co-founded for this, I once thought up the slogan "dynamics, force and courage." For me, these three words embody the new impetus needed to revitalise the Netherlands and modernise it on all fronts and reconnect with the rest of the world. This bill runs counter to that. Why isn't this bill a good idea? First of all, Dutch stock exchange companies already have plenty of opportunities to protect themselves against a hostile takeover or unwanted shareholders, such as preferential protection shares, priority shares, certificates of shares or controlling shareholders. And most Dutch stock exchange companies make full use of that. In addition, it distorts the balance within stock exchange companies, where a comprehensive system of checks and balances has to discipline the directors and directors of the company. This legislative proposal puts this system at risk and makes it easier to evade the discipline of the financial markets. In fact, this bill provides the management of Dutch stock exchange companies with an additional legal form of dismissal protection. It is therefore bad for the dynamics that the Dutch economy so urgently needs, and not good for our locational climate. I can assure you that this kind of thing really plays a role in choosing a location for large listed groups. The VVD thought it was possible to keep Unilever in the Netherlands by abolishing the dividend tax, a plan that I told everyone from day one that it was not going to work, because Unilever's shareholders considered Unilever's corporate control regime to be much more important than the Dutch dividend tax. That has also been demonstrated, because they voted massively for departure to the United Kingdom, even though the United Kingdom had already left the EU itself. So this issue is so important. By the way, Unilever has already publicly declared that this period of reflection, should it occur, is not to be invoked, because it is contrary to the so-called "no frustratation rule" of the British Takeover Code, Article 21 for lovers. It is also difficult to be compatible with the Shareholder Rights Directive, in particular Article 6 (3) of Directive 2007/36, which explicitly obliges Member States to set a single specific deadline. The Attorney General of the Supreme Court also pointed out that there is a great risk here. We would also like to hear clarification from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then I get to the point of stacking. This legislation adds an additional measure to existing protection structures and is also undesirable from the point of view of stacking, i.e. the accumulation of different protection structures. Our company law already offers very generous and adequate safeguards to keep activist, short-term shareholders at bay, in particular the central paragraph of Article 8 of Book 2 BW, which lays down the general standard that states: "a legal person and the person who is involved in his organisation under the law and statutes must behave as such towards each other according to what is claimed by reasonable and equitable'. This Article 8 is a very important starting point and end point in the interaction of the various stakeholders in company law, but also for stock exchange companies. In addition, there is also a generous possibility, if necessary also in the short term, to call in the specialised Enterprise Chamber, including in takeover fights. For example, we saw this in 2007, when the Enterprise Chamber intervened in the short term when ABN AMRO's shareholders tried to frustrate the sale of the US branch of LaSalle. The Entrepreneurship Chamber rejected this, which meant that this ABN AMRO part was sold well just before the start of the financial crisis in 2008. So that was still a windfall for the Dutch taxpayer afterwards. The conclusion is therefore that this bill is disproportionate, disrupts the existing balance, could be contrary to EU law and, importantly, the Dutch climate of location deteriorates. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the legislative proposal is a step in the wrong direction and a step in the wrong direction, with the risk that the very generously protected directors of Dutch stock exchange companies, already by international standards, will lag behind their foreign competitors without the well-functioning discipline of the financial markets, and will become a takeover prey themselves or will not survive; survival of the unfittest. We therefore strongly advise everyone, like our group, to vote against this bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mrs Adriaansen, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Compliments to my predecessors. I have to say that both have made their speeches very passionately. It is a pity that there are so few speakers, but I enjoyed you both. Before I start, I would like to say that I am a Commissioner at PGGM, a cooperative pension investor, and that I have no influence on investment policy, because asset management is divided into a separate company and there is also a separate supervisory board. But for the sake of completeness, I do want that transparency here. By the way, my input has been discussed with the VVD Group and the group supports this contribution. Mr. Chairman. We try to regulate everything in the Netherlands as best we can and to exclude unwanted influences, but sometimes we go through with that, as with this bill. My group has questions about the necessity and proportionality of this bill. We therefore wonder whether this proposal is not contrary to European law, namely the free movement of capital. We often react to incidents in The Hague, as the previous speakers have said and as is the case here. In particular in 2017, the possible acquisition of Unilever and AkzoNobel played. The shareholders' existing rights of assignment and call-up would not provide sufficient protection against activist shareholders and hostile takeovers, and there was a call for peace and quiet. AkzoNobel turned to the Entrepreneurship Chamber, which, by the way, supported AkzoNobel. The judge refused Elliott and York Capital permission to convene that shareholders' meeting. Elliott and York Capital wanted to talk in that meeting about a possible takeover by the American PPG, but the Entrepreneurship Chamber did not see sufficient reason to take steps against AkzoNobel. In 2018, the following year, AkzoNobel sold the chemical branch and the proceeds went to the shareholders to a large extent. So there's been some movement caused by this Elliott and York Capital thing. On the basis of existing laws and regulations, therefore, an undesirable takeover bid could be resisted. Moreover, the court ruled that AkzoNobel should have informed shareholders better, but this aside. But the spirit was out of the bottle and the desire to insert a period of reflection and to create peace came even in the coalition agreement and thus also in the legislative proposal before us. However, as Mr Otten and Mr Frentrop pointed out, there are sufficient means of protecting drivers to create peace in the event of an unwanted takeover bid. I will mention a number of them. There is the way of the Enterprise Chamber; that is the way AkzoNobel chose in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u8	Of course, Mrs Adriaansens has not yet completed her speech, but I have heard a number of things that sounded like music to me. Do I hear a form of moving insight at the VVD that this may have gone through the Lower House a little too quickly and is not really such a good plan afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u9	I saw you look very happy when I made some critical comments. I think it is our job to look very closely at the need and proportionality of a legislative proposal and I still have some questions about it. How we will finally vote will then become clear at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u10	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u11	Another protection measure is the issue of preferential and priority shares and the certification of shares, which can be used to protect them. The statutes can also include provisions that make it difficult for shareholders to nominate their own candidates for boards and the supervisory board and to dismiss directors or Commissioners, as Mr Frentrop said. Furthermore, the Dutch law prohibits the abuse of power by shareholders. Article 8 of Book 2 states that one must behave fairly and fairly. Article 13 of Book 3 states that you must not abuse your jurisdiction. Moreover, with the response time of the corporate governance code, which we also have, there is a means of holding back shareholders' movements. In the case of Cryo-Save, the Enterprise Chamber indicated that this response time could be effective. My group is therefore very pleased to hear from the Minister why these protection measures are insufficient. Mr. Chairman. My group also sees risks from this bill. We support the purpose of the bill; let that be clear. Careful decision-making is needed and the interests of the company and stakeholders need to be sufficiently taken into account. However, the question is whether the legislative proposal before us is the right way to do this. The legislative proposal can also damage the locational environment in the Netherlands. The Minister also admits that there can be an impact on the investment environment. In the explanatory memorandum, this is mentioned on page 13. My group is really concerned about these possible negative consequences. We must realise that 90% of stock exchange shares are held by foreign shareholders. That is not self-evident, because they can also choose to invest elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u12	I hope there's still time for a question. It is very good that Mrs Adriaansens is bringing in the climate of establishment. We heard a great deal about this at the time as the Prime Minister's argument in abolishing the dividend tax. I reject that as a determining factor for the locational climate. Does Mrs Adriaans agree with me that for large groups of international shareholders, the regime of corporate governance, as in the United Kingdom with the Take-over Code but also in the Dutch regime, is a very determining factor in the choice of location?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u13	As I have just said, this certainly plays a very important role for shareholders to make a decision to invest. We must also be economical because we are a small country and we should not be too easy to deal with. So you have to weigh these cases well against each other, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u14	Yes, but in practice, a lot of activity has already left the country. We've seen Unilever. There was always a Dutch discount. Maybe he's overtaken a little bit since this bill was filed. That's probably why this bill is a bit out of date, but that discount is now mega back-introducing if this law is passed. Does the VVD agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u15	I think the key question is what the effect of this law is going to be. The aim is to create a certain effect, namely more protection and careful consideration, time and tranquility to engage with all stakeholders. The question is whether its impact cannot also have negative consequences. You present it as a logic; I still wonder. But we do think you should look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u16	As I said, I've spent 30 years of my life on this field. Hence my enthusiasm for this subject, because it is simply very important. I am thinking of the sight of many people, including in politics, but of the international headquarters and the large financial institutions, banks and investment banks operating worldwide, this is very well analyzed before settling somewhere. If you put your house on the market and you have to wait 250 days as a buyer, you're going to buy another house. Of course, that's the way it's supposed to be. You agree with me, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u17	Mr Otten and I fully agree, which in itself is a very fine observation once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u18	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u19	These foreign investments contribute to the growth of the Dutch economy, as Mr Otten just pointed out. They do this by participating in these companies. This creates jobs for employees and suppliers. When we raise too many bumps for these investors, they stay away, while it is not clear what the benefits are. My group would like to hear the Minister's response to the expected financial consequences of these measures. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a very beautiful country, with great ambitions, but in size we are small. My group therefore wonders whether this bill fits in with the development of the European Capital Markets Union. The Capital Markets Union should make it easy for investors to invest in companies outside their country. The barriers to international investment must be removed so that we can stimulate economic growth. But this bill could possibly create a barrier. We would like to hear the Minister's response to this. Mr. Chairman. According to designation 2.2 of the Regulatory Instructions, there is a need for sufficient certainty that the proposed regime will lead to a solution to the problem and that there are no less burdensome alternatives. The bill is based on the assumption that short-term interests such as winning are bad, but that has not been demonstrated beyond doubt. Moreover, the pressure to show results in the short term does not necessarily have to be bad. Indeed, there is no evidence that this will put pressure on long-term value creation. But the opposite also applies; for example, look at Tesla's valuation, which, with a very low profit, records bizarrely high prices. That is precisely the opposite of the argument that shareholders are only short-term profits. My group would appreciate it if the Minister would indicate which problem is actually being solved and why this law is the solution. It is also a question of regulating the law. The company can rule out the period of reflection by law. The legislative proposal will therefore lead to the amendment of the statutes, and then everything will remain the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u20	I was surprised by the comment about Tesla's appreciation. That is, of course, a company listed on the NASDAQ in the United States. I didn't quite understand what you meant by that in the light of this bill. Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u21	The whole line of the bill and its justification are based on the fact that shareholders are mainly focused on short-term interests. There are a lot of examples, particularly in the case of tech companies, that they do not and that the long-term expectations are decisive there. That's what I'm trying to disprove.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u22	Okay, that's how I understand. I didn't quite understand the example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u23	That was a little out of the box.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u24	I agree with Mrs Adriaansen that the financial markets can weigh this very carefully. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u25	Yeah, that was the message, exactly. I just said it was about regulating justice, too. All this is overlooking the question of what this bill actually delivers, except negative pr for investors. Mr. Chairman. Another point on which my group has questions is the proposed dismissal protection for directors and Commissioners. It is not clear why this group has such a need. My group would like to hear from the Minister why this additional protection for dismissal is desirable. A final point of interest is the free movement of capital and establishment. This law may be contrary to European law, as the Council of State also states. The Council of State says as follows: "By offering the legal possibility of a reflection period, investing in a Dutch listed company can be made less attractive. This will affect the free movement of capital and freedom of establishment." European law allows such restrictions if those restrictions are necessary and proportionate to the purpose. To this end, I have indicated that my group is wondering whether the obstacles involved in this legislative proposal are necessary and proportionate. If the answer is no, this regulation may be contrary to European law. I'd like the Minister's reflection on this. Mr. Chairman. In short, my group is wondering whether this proposal will help us. We look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mrs Adriaansens. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-03-16-eerstekamer-3.u27	I shall suspend the sitting until about 10.15 a.m., pending the initiator, Mr Nijboer, and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
