ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate at first reading on the own-initiative proposal 35129, the proposal for a law of Mr Van Raak declaring that there is reason to consider a proposal for a change in the Constitution to include provisions relating to the corrective referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. As a phoenix rose from the ashes that image comes up at the examination of the initiative proposal in the Lower House. The referendum, in its various forms loved and misguided, introduced and abolished, has been bravely and decisively saved from the ashes of history by our cow knight Van Raak and is now on the table for us, ready to be embraced by us, to be revived and then to fly. Medicine for the frustrated voter, bridging the gap between the people and the representative of the people, icon of a democracy that takes the citizen fully seriously. It is the use, and rightly so, that initiators of a legislative proposal, especially in the event of a constitutional change, receive congratulations here and thanks for the commitment. I am therefore happy to begin my wish of luck for Mr Van Raak. He knows that GroenLinks appreciates his commitment to making a referendum possible. I also commend the modesty of Mr Van Raak, who himself is the first to admit that he has not done so much about it in this case: to deepen existing proposals, to cut and paste from previous drafts, to pass on the report of the Remkes committee on the work of others. That is extremely important work, because someone has to. He has done his best to get that through the House of Representatives unharmed and has succeeded in part, I would say. But whether this short-wiped phoenix that lies before us is going to fly or remains a mythical figure, a strange bird in our parliamentary democracy, or worse, whether the citizens here are not happy with a dead sparrow, that is the key question of this debate. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say at the beginning of the debate that the previous debate and the answer to the written questions in two rounds do not vote very hopefully for this debate. A series of pressing questions have been asked about the definition and workability of the referendum. First of all, the definition, because not every bill lends itself to a referendum and, for example, the position of minorities must be protected from the power of the majority. This is essential for the rule of law and our group is satisfied with what is now in place. We are also pleased that it will also apply to local authorities, including water boards. A referendum was secured there too. However, the questions raised by this Chamber on the workability of the proposal have, frankly, been answered disappointingly, particularly as regards the threshold of outcome. There we had, certainly from this seasoned initiator, expected more. It seems to me that when he answered the questions he had already thrown the towel in the ring, that he himself knows best that the proposal in its present form will never lead to an effective referendum, that it will thus give citizens a fake instrument and give them false speech and that we should not be surprised if they are left behind more frustrated because 'the politics' means that the voice of citizens is smothered even in a referendum. It is not for nothing that the Christian Union spokesperson stressed in the Lower House that an inactive referendum is a recipe for disappointment. I'll get back to you on that. My group is in favour of the correct referendum. My party is not mentioned repeatedly in the explanatory memorandum as one of the consistent supporters. My group also understands that you need to build up thresholds to make the referendum credible, but those thresholds must be properly applied to prevent it from becoming a referendum, and that is exactly where it goes wrong. We fully understand the choice of a threshold of outcome rather than a threshold of turnout, because a threshold of turnout has the perverse incentive to sabotage the referendum by staying at home. The outcome threshold has been discussed extensively in the Lower House, because it was initially non-existent. The initiator wanted to fill that in ordinary legislation. The House of Representatives decided by amendment that it should be incorporated into the Constitution, with half of the turnout of the last elections to the House of Representatives. There was a fine discussion in principle about whether the threshold was of a constitutional nature. Mr Van Raak mentioned that mostly ugly, and I understand that. This Chamber also attaches to aesthetics. In the words of our colleague Witteveen, unfortunately killed in the MH17 attack: "the law as a work of art." Mr Van Raak also rightly argued that the level of the threshold is important and that he is in favour of a lower threshold. But in that debate and also in answering the written questions, he avoided the substantive discussion on the level of the thresholds. In the Lower House he got out of the way in the hope of maintaining a broad majority. He literally said: "I am defending this law here, of course, but in some respects I am a spectator of this debate. In the end, there will have to be a two-thirds majority for any referendum." Very pragmatic. He concluded with: "But send me across the street with something I can work with." That's a little less pragmatic, I think. He said: "Once again, let the discussion begin, let the views of the state committee on thresholds be kicked off and make sure I can go across with something good." Mr. Chairman. Apparently that did not work, because in his written answer he avoided the question of this Chamber, not with substantive arguments and answers, but only with the argument that the House of Representatives had just laid down it. Even after having had three experts explain to this Chamber the effect of this high threshold of outcome, he had no other defence. So we are sitting here today with a bill that the experts say is not going to work. The chance of a law being corrected by referendum is marginal. This has also eliminated the preventive effect, because if drafters of laws do not have to worry about a possible referendum, they do not take that into account. The gap between The Hague and the citizen is thus only widening. The State Committee on Parliamentary System had recommended that the threshold be set at one third of the number of voters. That was seen as a feasible but not easy to take hurdle. In other countries with an outcome threshold, it is often between 20% and 30% of voters for ordinary laws and for constitutional changes. The experts' opinions are also in this order of magnitude, as referenda are sufficiently representative from that border. Professor Van der Meer literally says: "The added value of a higher threshold is nil." The percentage referred to by the state committee, a third, is thus already at the upper limit of what is feasible. The 40% currently in the proposal is unfeasible. That has to do with the division between fronts and opponents. If all, literally all citizens were against an adopted law, a 40% exit rate would also be a 40% turnout rate. But when it comes to it, and it will often be so, especially in our country and especially in the case of controversial laws, especially in the case of laws which may be the subject of a referendum, the result must be at 80% for a valid result. It is precisely when it comes to it that citizens will stay at home, because they do not have a very clear opinion. Even at a threshold of 33.3%, a turnout of 66.7% is already needed, even if not a simple task. All this for a referendum that is often separate, that is to say citizens should go to the ballot box only for that purpose. All three Dutch referendums held so far and almost all referendums in similar countries would have been invalid at a 40% threshold. Mr. Chairman. The conclusion is therefore no other than that the initiator has been sent in this direction with something that he himself cannot work with and frankly neither the citizen. The suggestion of this Chamber to return to the House of Representatives with new expert insights because there was no discussion about this, and to change the outcome threshold per novelle, he called a chase-patate, a beloved statement: the useless effort of a cyclist who lingers between peloton and leading group. Of course, the first question is whether he considers this Chamber to be a leading group or a peloton, but the most important question is whether the referendum itself with this threshold is not the real chase-patate, in which the citizen can make an effort to the utmost and yet not get the say that is due to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mr Ganzevoort's enthusiasm for this bill is changing, and that is also to be expected from a party that has always been enthusiastic about a binding corrective referendum over the past few decades. He now pretends that the House of Representatives has passed a hopeless bill and now brings it to us through the initiator, but has colleague Ganzevoort seen that his party has also voted for this bill, like the vast majority of the House of Representatives? Isn't it perhaps a little too pedantic to say "totally wrong of the House of Representatives; this is nothing at all, this isn't what we meant"? It's just a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u5	I find it extremely sad that Mr Kox is making such a party politics thingy about it. We're here in the First Chamber. I am not here to defend or attack my group colleagues and my fellow party members in any area. I'm here because I'm in the First Chamber facing the task of checking if any of the laws we adopt are right, if they're right, and if they're going to work. As far as the latter is concerned, the answer is based on the more detailed information that we have and which the House of Representatives has apparently not looked at... They did not ask the experts what outcome threshold would work and what its impact would be. I am sure that if they did have these advices, they would also be scratching behind the ears, like "ehm, is this indeed a law that we can still support? Is this the correct referendum we want?" Certainly, as a party, we are passionately in favour of a genuinely corrective referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u6	I'm sure the other side didn't look at something. Some of us can. I do not, I always follow it with interest, but I have noted that this amendment has been brought into the law against the opinion of the initiator and that it has received sufficient support in the House of Representatives. Mr Ganzevoort's statement that they have not even thought about it would imply that amendments are tabled in the House of Representatives by groups that are not considered at all, and a majority will say: let us do it this way. Isn't that a little too critical of our colleagues across the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u7	I have a very small tip for Mr Kox: it is useful to look at data sometimes. The dates of the expert reports are from after the debate in the Lower House, so they had no knowledge of that, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Kox, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u9	The initiator has been asked by the President of the House of Representatives: are you prepared to defend this proposal as amended by the Chamber of Representatives in the House of Representatives? It is good practice to ask for this and it is also good practice to agree to it. But that does mean that the initiator is kept to defend the bill passed by the House of Representatives. Mr Ganzevoort's speech 'at this point it is nothing at all, Mr Van Raak' is a bit strange. Then you say that to the entire House of Representatives, because that is where the bill came from and that bill, and not the perhaps much better original texts by Mr Van Raak, is on the agenda. We agree on that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u11	But that's not the question at all. Mr Van Raak is being addressed here because he has been sent on the road with this bill that he has to defend, certainly. So it's about this bill and so it's about how the House of Representatives decided on it, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u12	I suggest you continue your argument if Mr. Kox agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u13	I'm okay with it, but a MP of the House of Representatives who's gonna be "sent out by the House of Representatives"? I do not know whether this is the right language in terms of courtesy in traffic between the Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u14	I am simply quoting Mr Van Raak himself, who said: send me out with something I can work with. If that's not courteous, then I don't remember. Mr. Chairman. My group is in favour of the correct referendum, but a real referendum, with the possibility of really correcting it. That is why I have a very limited number of questions to the initiator and to the government. First of all, I would like to hear from Mr Van Raak himself as the initiator and defender of this proposal whether, having looked back and taken note of the expert's analyses, he should not characterize the amendment of the threshold of outcome as a de facto destructive amendment, because it affects the heart of the matter, the possibility of the corrective referendum. I have mentioned a few quotes from the debate on the other side that point to this, including those from the author of the amendment, who spoke of a recipe for disappointment. She did not say that about her amendment, but my question is whether that does not apply to it. Did Mr Van Raak's colleagues in the coalition and the classic referenda opponents simply cut off the wings of his beautiful phoenix per amendment? That is my first question to the initiator, the defender. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she has taken note of the expert analyses. Will the Minister persist in her advice to the House of Representatives, saying that she was able to agree with the outcome threshold in the amendment? In doing so, she joined the "Let us be honest" suggestion of the Council of State. Does it share the view of my group that the opinion of the Remkes Committee on this matter was a better one in retrospect and that such a high threshold of outcome is dangerous for citizens' confidence, given the expert's analysis? Finally, I would like to ask the initiator whether he is prepared to cooperate in ensuring that there will be a genuinely corrective referendum, as we want and as the initiator personally wants? The initiator is here as a representative of the House of Representatives, Mr Kox has just underlined. Is the initiator willing to contribute to the fact that there will be a genuinely corrective referendum and that the House of Representatives will therefore have to amend this proposal by means of a novella before we adopt it? Let me even make it a warm call to Mr Van Raak. Do not let your parliamentary swan songs run out that the citizen remains in his hands with a dead sparrow. Because between phoenixes, sparrows and swans, chairman, this bird is not going to fly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u15	I have a question for you about the bird that may not be flying. I have not heard you talk about the two-thirds majority required at second reading, both in the Lower House and in the Upper House, if there is to be any change to the Constitution. My question to Mr Ganzevoort is as follows. Suppose this proposal is rejected and there will be a novelle or a whole new bill. Do you think that if the outcome threshold goes down, suddenly a phoenix will rise from the ashes and a two-thirds majority will emerge in Second and First Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u16	One of the lamest tricks in a debate is to get out of the way like-dan questions, so I won't let you do that. But this is a like-dan question. Let me answer him something else. What's better? Is it better to say that there will be a bill called 'correct referendum' with a lot of strings and strangles, when it doesn't seem to be, and to say to the citizen, 'Look, we politicians have made sure that you can correct us', when that's not really true? Is that what we want with each other? Or do we say, if that's the way it's supposed to be, then don't we? The More Democracy Foundation, which has been committed to this for years, says: rather not a referendum than this, because this is not going to work. So the question is not so much whether we are achieving a two-thirds majority as it would otherwise be. No, the question is next. There's a bill in front of it now. Is this a legislative proposal that allows for a binding correction or not? As it is now, with this threshold, the answer is: no, this is not going to make it possible. If we want to be responsible, I ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u17	I can imagine Mr Ganzevoort thinking something strategic. We can table a new legislative proposal and we can do that by a simple majority, but ultimately we want a corrective legislative referendum and we need that two-thirds majority. Parties have different views. I therefore believe that it is important to look at what threshold that two-thirds majority is reached. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance in the House of Representatives has answered that question, because it voted in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u18	The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance voted against this amendment, precisely for the reasons I mentioned. In the end, she voted in favour, not knowing exactly how that threshold would work. That is more detailed information that we do now have at our disposal. The House of Representatives could look at that again. Mr Dittrich asks if I think strategically. In any case, I have put forward a substantive argument, namely that we now have a legislative proposal with a threshold of outcome, which will not be able to achieve that binding corrective referendum. In my opinion, parties who are in favour of a corrective referendum cannot be pleased with a legislative proposal that seems to offer a corrective referendum but makes it impossible to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u19	Finish your speech, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u20	My argument was that of all the birds that fly around, this is not one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I call Mr Kox on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. I have to confess, I'm not an expert on birds. Yet I always get very happy when I see everything that Our Lord has put here on earth flying around, whistling and flapping. There are many species and one I like better than the other. The colourful woodpecker is perhaps a bit more beautiful, the icebird is perhaps also a bit more beautiful than the sparrow or the cabbagebird, by which I mean the bird. But it always makes me happy. It is just to say that I still think that if a proposal is adopted in the House of Representatives, it needs to be considered seriously here and that our opinion in advance that they will not have got it there is just a little too easy. But that is good for the debate; then the positions are placed. Mr Ganzevoort's statement that he is not here to defend his group in the House of Representatives; of course not, because they are husbands and wives enough to do so themselves. But they did vote in favour of this bill. In a political body, the Minister for the Interior will confirm that this is a political body. It is not strange that there is a relationship between what is said there by one group and what is said here by the related group. Mr. Chairman. It gives me great pleasure today to have Ronald van Raak back here in our midst. At the at least provisional end of his parliamentary career, which began here a long time ago in the First Chamber, he today defends on behalf of the House of Representatives a bill initiated by him and subsequently amended by the House of Representatives and subsequently approved by the House of Representatives. That bill concerns the constitutional possibility of a binding corrective referendum at national, provincial and local level, as well as at our waterboards. In the Lower House only the groups of VVD, CDA, SGP and DENK have not yet supported this bill. All the other groups supported it. If, after that broad support in the House of Representatives, this Chamber also gives its support to the bill, there is a chance that after the next elections of the House of Representatives both Chambers will soon be able to deal with the bill in the second reading and give it the power of law. That's something. Since a two-thirds majority is required in both Chambers, it is important to achieve as much support for the legislative proposal as possible at first reading. I hope we can do that together today. In any case, it is a challenge for the initiator. Mr. Chairman. It is also nice that the Minister for the Interior is present at the hearing in her role as advisor. And it is quite nice to know from the debate in the Lower House that the minister and the government say: "Let's just do it. Why bother when it's easy?'. And so it is just in this case. Mr. Chairman. This position also fits perfectly with the assessment of a legislative proposal by the Council of State and is in line with the opinion of the State Committee on Parliamentary System. As we know, that committee was set up by the government at the request of both Chambers, in which this Chamber was the initiator. Should this bill eventually make it to the State Gazette, it's a unique one. Never before did our country have a constitutional possibility of holding a binding corrective referendum. Although some referendums were held at the time of the Batavian Republic, some time ago, in which the citizens were allowed to give their opinion on a Constitution to be introduced, both the nature of that republic and the design of those referendums were in doubt. Anyway, since 1815, the concept of referendum has not been included in our Constitution. That does not mean that the subject was taboo in the past. On the contrary, in the nineteenth century there was talk of the desirability of a referendum, in the twentieth century as well. Before the war, among other things, by the first Liberal Prime Minister of our country, Pieter Cort van der Linden, and after the war by a state commission chaired by former Christian Democratic Prime Minister Barend Biesheuvel. Three times before, there was a similar proposal in our Parliament: once as a government proposal, twice as an initiative proposal. All three proposals reached a majority in both chambers at first reading. Two times the proposal was then rejected in second reading in the Lower House, one time a referendum proposal died in the second reading in this Chamber. The "against" of VVD-senator Hans Wiegel prevented a two-thirds majority from being achieved, and that night went into history as the night of Wiegel. The times when the referendum died in the Lower House did not receive a similar predicate, but they were remarkable anyway. In 2004, a majority of the House of Representatives said no to a proposal from 2000, from Party of Labour, VVD and D66, because the second government-Balkenende, consisting of CDA, VVD and D66, had so agreed. And in 2014 a similar proposal did not make it at second reading because the initiators D66, Party of Labour and GroenLinks still pulled their hands off it. An attempt by Ronald van Raak then to get the orphan bill approved, was not to benefit. Mr. Chairman. During the years behind, Parliament has also said goodbye to the possibility of a consultative referendum and a consultative referendum after voters said no to a European constitution, an association treaty with Ukraine and a so-called drag law. As a result, it became apparent that the referendum in our country could be put away for good in the museum of failed constitutional innovations, which is already well filled. Fortunately, however, this did not happen because the State Committee on Parliament, set up by the Rutte II Cabinet in 2017, chaired by liberal figurehead Johan Remkes, with several former senators as a member, presented the binding corrective referendum as one of its most prominent recommendations to government and parliament after two years of examination of our parliamentary system. On the basis of extensive research and many discussions, the State Committee sees the introduction of the binding corrective referendum as, I quote, "an important contribution to modernising and supplementing representative democracy and to the future stability of our parliamentary system'. In this context, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities points out that various studies show that there is considerable support for both representative democracy and the referendum among the population, particularly the non-academically educated, with the referendum as a complement to representative democracy. A well-known and appreciated liberal like Johan Remkes to hear such a thing, sounds to me as simple socialist as music in the ears. Liberals and socialists can both appreciate the valuable addition to our representative democracy through the referendum, which my group very much likes. Ronald van Raak immediately works out of the recommendation on the referendum that the State Commission handed over to this minister in December 2018 in the report Low thresholds, high dikes. Just a month later, he converted the recommendation of the State Committee into a new initiative proposal, and indeed, as Mr Ganzevoort said, he gratefully made use of all the preparatory work that had already been done by all kinds of political parties at all times. I think he's set a record with that. With his proposal for a binding corrective referendum, he is at least placing himself not only in a good liberal but also in a good socialist tradition. After all, such a referendum was already included in the first political programme of the Social Democratic Workers' Party in 1895 before Cort van der Linden became enthusiastic about it. In that programme, the introduction of the referendum was linked to the abolition of the First Chamber; I see the Minister's interest. As a former senator, Mr Van Raak has been prudent enough not to include that part in his bill. He would not have known the state committee by his side either. Moreover, the party to which Mr Van Raak belongs is not in favour of the lifting of the First Chamber, but rather of the lifting of the two Chambers into one large and more effective State-General. As long as we are not there, we are in favour of introducing a return right for this Chamber and a greater role for the United Assembly of the States General. Those are proposals that were already addressed in a book by Ronald van Raak and others about the Eerste Kamer from 2011, after which they were incorporated in the report of the State Committee and are now being dealt with by this Minister of the Interior, hopefully all just in time before the House of Representatives is dissolved. I would like to hear the Minister's latest news on this. Mr. Chairman. Today, however, we are mainly talking about the proposal initiated by Mr Van Raak and amended by the House of Representatives and subsequently approved. This proposal has been amended on three important points on the other side. First of all, there can be no binding referendum on the conclusion of international treaties. Secondly, local and provincial binding corrective referenda are made possible, but not constitutionally anchored. This also applies to a referendum on waterboard decisions. Thirdly, a so-called outcome threshold is set out in the Constitution for national binding corrective referenda. Mr. Chairman. My party, which has for many years been in favour of supplementing our representative parliamentary democracy with the possibility of holding a referendum, was not on the banks when the House of Representatives amended the original bill. We would also have liked to have declared international treaties referendable. As far as we are concerned, an outcome threshold does not fit well into the Constitution and much better into an ordinary law. I would like to hear the views of the initiator and also of the Minister. But, Mr President, cookies are rarely baked in politics. And then the pragmatic rule of former CDA Minister Jan de Koning applies: if it can't be done as it should be done, then it has to be done as it can. On balance, our group attaches more weight in this respect to saying yes to constitutionalising a binding corrective referendum for the first time in our history than saying no to some of the amendments made by the House of Representatives. That is a political choice, but it is also a matter of substance and by-product. Nevertheless, I would like to hear the appreciation of both the initiator and the minister of the changes made by the House of Representatives in the original proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u23	It took a while before Mr. Kox got to the content, because we first got a very long history in which all kinds of referenda came along that weren't all the same. The proposals differed. They weren't even worn out sometimes, et cetera. But now we come to the content and he mentions the implementation threshold. It actually sounds as if Mr Kox says: it doesn't thunder, if we get a referendum. That surprises me, because the Remkes committee he so enthusiastically quotes rightly, as far as I am concerned, too, says that the first principle is that the introduction of a binding corrective referendum should give the people a real opportunity. Is the outcome threshold indeed one of the paraphernalia, one of the decorations that can or cannot reach it? Or is it one of the conditions to be able to talk about a well-corrective, binding referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u24	I understand that Mr Ganzevoort does not need much history, but I thought: well, in a Chamber of reflection, with a historian and philosopher as initiator, it is not bad to see things in their context. I always thought that was more or less the role of this Chamber. Anyway, not everyone likes history, neither do my children, and neither does colleague Ganzevoort. He says:...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u25	A personal fact, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u26	... now the SP comes to the bill itself, and apparently it doesn't thunder for the SP what proposal is coming, but it just says blindly yes to it. No, it doesn't matter what kind of bill comes up, but this bill is ahead and has been amended and accepted by the House of Representatives. We have to take that into account. My party, like Mr Ganzevoort's party, is in favour of a binding corrective referendum, at least until recently. If there is a proposal from the House of Representatives that allows for a binding corrective referendum, my first response is: I am very happy about that, because it takes us a century and a half to get that bill on the table and in the Constitution. That further adjustments have been made to the initiative proposal in the House of Representatives which do not have my preference, even more so, which I would much rather not have seen. I have to take that into account. I'll explain to the initiator and the minister what they think of that outcome threshold. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, through Mr Ganzevoort, has evidently already established that this can never work, but we have never seen it work before, and I am a very big supporter of the idea that knowledge comes from practice, but we will see if there is anything left to do about it and how to do about it. I'll ask the initiator and the minister. But at the top is for my group and, I hope, for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and for many groups here, that we must include a binding corrective referendum in our Constitution. The alternative is that we don't record it. Then this proposal will indeed return to the museum of the ingenious political modernisations. I'm not much of a fan of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u27	I am a great fan of history, but I am sorry to use half the speaking time in this Chamber. For me, that's not necessarily reflection. The question is, what exactly is the situation here? What's the bill before this? It is good that it is called a 'correctly binding referendum'. We are in favour of this, that is not the discussion at all. The question is: is it true what is happening de facto, the proof of the pudding? Then of course you can say: let's try it out, but we have asked a number of experts to do that for us. How's this gonna work? And all three of them say this isn't gonna work! Can Mr. Kox reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mr. Kox, I'd like a quick answer. Bondy, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u29	I guess it shouldn't be about history, then, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u30	A brief answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u31	The brief answer is that there is a legislative proposal with an outcome threshold that has never been tried, which we do not know about, but which the House of Representatives apparently thought was doable. That is why I ask for the opinion of the initiator and the Minister. GroenLinks' group in the Lower House found that no reason not to support the bill and send it to this Chamber. Now the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance in this Chamber says: well, that's nothing at all! By the way, when I talk a lot about history, you talk a lot about birds yourself. Everyone has their own thing, we have no comment on it, but I have gone into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u32	Ganzevoort, third, final.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u33	Redundancy, but no answer. My question was whether Mr Kox can reflect on the opinions we have received from experts who have analysed for us how this is going to work, namely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u34	Certainly I can reflect on that. I've read all those reports and all those advices. Even stronger, I very much agree. I just said that, a sentence ago, when Mr Ganzevoort was on his way to the interrupting microphone. That threshold of outcome should not have been laid down in the Constitution, but could have been regulated by ordinary law, but the House of Representatives decided differently. That doesn't mean I say, "I'll just throw away the whole kid with the polluted bath water."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u35	Thank you. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u36	I would like to ask Mr Kox whether he agrees with me that the First Chamber is a chamber of review. This means that all proposals of the House of Representatives, all of which have been adopted by the House of Representatives, can in principle be reconsidered here. This can be done, for example, on the basis of new information. This Chamber, unlike the House of Representatives, has asked experts to shed light on that threshold. We ask Mr Kox how he himself judges, bearing in mind the opinions of the experts, the threshold of outcome as laid down in the Constitution. I know that Mr Kox is asking the initiator and the government for their opinion on this, but I would like to ask what Mr Kox thinks of it when all three experts say: it is impossible in practice, it is not possible anywhere in the world. Do you have to put that in the Constitution at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u37	As I said, my group in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber is not in favour of including a threshold in the Constitution. That should have been done by ordinary law, because that gives more room for both chambers of the States-General, but also for the government, to deal with the legal referendum. Whether it works in practice or not, I'm reasonably conservative in that. It hasn't been in practice yet, so we can't see that yet. I can imagine that it is causing great problems and, again, I would have preferred not to see it in it. I can also imagine that, when we get to work on it, the tradition arises that we link referendums to elections. Then the problem gets a lot less big in one go. That could be a possibility. You can say: a referendum is about a separate subject from elections. That may be so, but it is obviously important and the other demands are also very high. It is very demanding to get a referendum off the ground, to let it fly and ultimately to make it successful. I believe that this could be an opportunity to compensate for this indeed ugly distortion of the original legislative proposal. But again, I've asked the initiator and the minister about it...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u38	Thank you. Mr. Koole, do you have any...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u39	...but the practice isn't there yet. So I cannot say that practice proves anything, even if three experts predict that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mr. Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr Kox described the threshold of outcome and its inclusion in the Constitution as a very ugly thing. I agree with him. He says "the practice isn't there yet," but that's why we in the First Chamber have invited those experts. If you want to introduce something new in the Netherlands, you do so on the basis of as much scientific information as possible. If that scientific information is unambiguous that this is not feasible, then I ask Mr Kox whether it is not prohibitive to include it in the Constitution. My second question is this. Mr Kox proposes to combine it with elections. Take the case where a new government proposes a law after six months and is adopted by both chambers, but in society the feeling is that it wants to talk about it. If you want to combine that with elections and you want an election that really has a high turnout, then that referendum may have to wait three and a half years for the next national election.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u42	What's your question, Mr Koole?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u43	My question is whether the proposal to link the referendum to elections is really a solution to meet that threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u44	Mr. Kox, please give me a concise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u45	The best solution is not to put that threshold in the Constitution, but the House of Representatives decided otherwise. Second best could be that we're linking it to elections. Mr Koole's question is what if it is just a few months after the elections? I can turn around. Maybe it's only been a few months before the elections! Then I am convinced that Mr Koole would agree with me that we are doing it together with the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u46	Thank you. Given the time, unfortunately, I have to be somewhat brief. Mr. Schalk just one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u47	Certainly, my question will be very short, but not after I have said that, as far as I am concerned, in all openness, the threshold of outcome cannot be high enough. Now my real question follows. Mr Kox is now linking the situation that has arisen with possible elections. He thus makes a very wonderful movement, because in elections it is very common for a cabinet to be outgoing. That outgoing cabinet, or a new cabinet, you then saddle up with a huge problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u48	As I said, I would have been very much in favour of this amendment not being adopted, and I would have liked it if the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats had voted against this amendment on the other side, even if it was in principle against a referendum. Unfortunately, however, this amendment was mainly supported by a majority of political groups which later voted against Mr Van Raak's proposal. But the business is done. Your group has supported this amendment by a number of other parties. It's in there now, and I don't think you can argue the fact that it's in there as a reason to criticize this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u49	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u50	Mr President, I do not. The fact that we were in favour of that amendment has to do with the fact that we could not have reached the threshold. It will be clear that that has weighed heavily across the street. Then we still think that such a referendum is not a good idea. I would like to hear a response from Mr Kox to my question as to what he is doing to a missionary or a new cabinet by linking the referendum to possible elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mr. Kox, would you like a brief answer and then continue your speech, given the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u52	If we include this possibility in our Constitution, it will be a right of our citizens. That right of our citizens is always higher than the problem that a cabinet can experience because there are also elections on other matters. Once again, if we had not adapted this in the House of Representatives, with the support of among others the group of the SGP, we would not have had this problem here. Now the reality is I like to be an optimist for the future, but I also like to be a realist in today's world that this bill is here in this form and not another proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u53	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u54	I would like to hear, for example, from Mr Koole, who is also an expert, whether he still has creative solutions to overcome this problem, rather than saying: it is a problem that the House of Representatives has put into it. This is my last sentence, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because I do not see a chance to change it. If the initiator and the minister go back to the House of Representatives and say "the one thing you put in it very strongly with the support of the SGP and other groups, that has to come out," the groups say: not at all! I can already see the SGP colleagues laughing at: look, now we have finally achieved what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u55	Mr. Kox, your speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u56	Mr. Chairman. The exclusion of international treaties, which can sometimes intervene deeply in the rights of our citizens when there is a transfer of sovereignty or a division of sovereignty, is the wish of a large majority of the House of Representatives and, I assume, of a majority of this Chamber. We accept that for the moment without mugs, although it remains our group's declared wish to give the people control in any way in the future if there is a transfer or division of sovereignty. If it comes to that, we will see how we can find a mode with other parties, but today it is not about that. The possibility but not mandatory of local and provincial referenda by the amendment of the House of Representatives is for us an entirely acceptable amendment of the original bill. I would also like to hear the views of the initiator and the Minister. We leave the local authorities free in this by the amendment of the House of Representatives, and that actually fits in with a modern democracy. In this context, it is nice to remind you of a piece of history that was smothered by the House of Representatives at the beginning of the last century. After some local referendums had already taken place in Hillegom and Naarden and the residents of Almelo had also announced that they wanted a referendum, the House of Representatives intervened. According to the then Lower House, people's consultations were contrary to the Municipal Law, which stipulated that the municipal administration should be independent. "Following the fun," said the House of Representatives to the local parliaments. All three local referendums had fun as a subject, namely whether or not to keep a fairground, but that aside. Well, if this bill is passed and it also reaches second reading, there can be a binding corrective ruling in municipalities and provinces on everything, from the fair to any other subject that concerns the local population. We think that is a good thing. Mr. Chairman. I would now like to talk about the threshold, but I have already done so, so I do not need to go into that now. The question is whether this Chamber should ask the initiator, as we sometimes do for a few years, to submit a novelle to the House of Representatives. It happens every now and then, and sometimes it works. But the initiator has informed this Chamber that he does not want to follow the path of the novelle in this case, because he assumes that the House of Representatives will not agree to it. Then it's lost time. So does our group. However, as I have said, I would like to hear the views of both the initiator and the Minister on this point. I have already heard the opinion from some groups and I would also like to hear from some groups a solution to the problem rather than a dead end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u57	Given the time, I suggest we let Mr. Kox finish his speech, because we are already way behind. Then we can see if there are any more interruptions. Is that okay, Mr. Koole?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u58	I accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u60	Mr. Chairman. All in all, our group welcomes the fact that, after three unsuccessful attempts, it has been possible to re-table a proposal for a constitutionally binding corrective referendum to the States General. After all, we know that many citizens are in favour of this addition to representative democracy, and we also know, with the State Commission, that people with lower education in particular are often in favour of such an option above average. It is the people who often feel above average underrepresented in our parliament and on average have less confidence in our current democracy than the more educated and better paid citizens. Increasing the confidence of this large group of citizens in our democracy should be something that is of great importance to all of us. With the adoption of this bill, we are undoubtedly contributing to this. Mr. Chairman. In the preparation and in the report of the State Commission, the so-called Ostrogorski paradox has been increased to see and transcend the apparent contradiction between representative and direct democracy. Especially in a country like ours, where coalition formation is always necessary and political compromises are inevitable and common, it can happen that the majority of the population disagrees with the majority of Parliament at some point. A correct referendum can then achieve an acceptable solution to that contradiction. For some it may be reassuring to know that Ostrogorski was not only the founder of political sociology with Max Weber and Robert Michels, he was also politically liberal. He was a member of the Liberal Constitutional Democratic Party in the first Russian State Duma. He has had a great influence on political thinking in the last century, and I assume he still has an influence on thinking, especially in liberal circles. Finally, Mr President. After Pieter Jelles Troelstra, a long line of parliamentarians has rallied in favour of this substantial addition to our representative democracy. Klaas de Vries advocated it, as did Gerard Schouw, Femke Halsema, Paul Kalma, Niesco Dubbelboer and many others. Farah Karimi has presented us with proposals on the referendum, just like Jolande Sap and Boris van der Ham. Now it is explained and defended here by Ronald van Raak. This indicates that the referendum goes far beyond party politics. A referendum is not a left, a referendum is not a right, a referendum is a legitimate and valuable improvement in our democratic system for which many have fought and for which all praise is due. My group welcomes this important legislative proposal and therefore looks forward with interest to the reactions of the initiator, the minister and the other groups. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u61	Mr. Koole, another brief interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u62	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Mr Kox also mentioned the novelle. He said that the initiator had said that there is no chance of obtaining a majority in the House of Representatives and that he agreed with that. I think that is a little quick to speak and very little to testify to the reasonableness of Members of Parliament to be open to new information. That new information is available. I would like to ask Mr Kox whether this novelle is not to be considered, partly to make possible the solutions he also expects from me as an expert, as he said, in the form of a new legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u63	When I say that Mr Koole is an expert, I do not mean that as a joke but seriously; I have seen the long list of publications on this subject, among other things. The question of a novelle has gradually become unwritten state law. This Chamber has been involved, and that is all right. But it is actually also unwritten state law that this Chamber is not going to ask the House of Representatives to take out the things that they have turned into a proposal. On the one hand, because it is a dead end and, on the other hand, because it does not fit in with parliamentary relations. But can I ask Mr Koole again if he has any signals that groups that voted for a threshold in the Lower House will change their opinion on the basis of the expert reports they have read in the meantime? If these signals are not there, it is only a dead end and I am more curious about other creative solutions from, among others, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u64	Finally, Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u65	This can also be in my input later, but it's about trying to fix something with a novelle that you don't like in a law right now. With regard to the threshold of outcome, there are many signs that it is unfeasible. Why couldn't I? Mr Kox's recital I ask the question whether he really believes that is what we should do, because otherwise we will not get a majority in the House of Representatives. Isn't it about the content of the proposal first? If the content of the proposal were prohibitive in terms of its operation in practice, I think that a Chamber such as this should be vigilant in terms of its implementation, and you should at least reconsider it. My question is: would he not be open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u66	A concise answer, Mr. Kox. Then Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u67	I want to be open to everything. I have not received any signals that the groups that proposed this amendment in the House of Representatives and subsequently adopted it are prepared to change their minds. If such signals have not reached Mr Koole or the initiator, then we have to take that into account. It is really good practice that this Chamber is not going to amend parts of a law that have been explicitly adopted by the House of Representatives. I have already told Mr Ganzevoort, I am not saying to the House of Representatives 'you decide what'. A decision has been made here, knowingly. Of course, the fact that the SGP colleagues voted enthusiastically in favour of it had everything to do with making the referendum more difficult, I am sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr Ganzevoort, a single question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u69	It is simply not true what Mr Kox says that we do not. It is often the case that this Chamber wishes to withdraw an explicit amendment from the legislative proposal by means of a novella. A recent example is the Media Act. Each amendment was introduced that no active politicians should be on the Supervisory Board. It was an explicit amendment from the House of Representatives, which was accepted by a majority; anything you want. It was taken out by novelle because it couldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u70	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u71	My question to Mr Kox about this novelle is whether he wants to consider it. There is new information and the cabinet has fallen and there is no government agreement in this respect. Perhaps parties that were already not happy with that are voting differently now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u72	It is not for me to submit a novelle to the House of Representatives. The representative of the House of Representatives will have to do so here in the end. He has to answer that question. I know the proposal of the Media Act, but this is an essential amendment. This is an essential amendment, which was also necessary for the Christian Union to vote in favour of the bill in the House of Representatives. Then I find it a little too easy to assume that the House of Representatives voted in favour of an amendment in this way. A decision has been taken, knowingly and knowingly. If a decision is made knowingly and there are no signs that there are other insights, I am realistic enough to know that it is a dead end to ask for a novelle. Mr. Ganzevoort knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u73	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u74	I find it too easy to assume that the House of Representatives does not want to listen, that it is not open to substantive arguments and that a new political situation does not lead to another solution, because practice will have to prove it. Let's try.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the response of the initiator and the Minister with interest. I hope that in future this debate will also come up with creative solutions to problems that have been identified, including by my group. That seems to me to be more useful than pointing out that it is not going to work again, because we have had this all too often with the referendum. I am, as I said, a realist for the present, but still an optimist for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u76	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u77	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by expressing a great deal of appreciation to the initiator. Thank you on behalf of 50PLUS for doing the much work. This time and energy is accompanied by legislative initiative proposals. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS has always been in favour of binding referendums on major legislative proposals that have a major impact on citizens' lives. This has traditionally been stated in our election programme. Mr. Chairman. The path of holding a binding corrective referendum has been a long one. I'm also quoting some historical facts. If we go back in history, the need for a referendum arose early last century. Despite the fact that there was no right to public consultation, the opinion of the bourgeoisie was still sought in really serious cases. In 1906 a local referendum was held in the town of Hillegom on whether the inhabitants would prefer an annual carnival or a folk festival. Because the result was fifty-fifty, it was decided to keep both; I think an excellent compromise. A local referendum was held in Naarden in 1912 on the abolition of the fair because it caused so much nuisance. None of you will be surprised that the majority voted to preserve the fair. These examples already show how important it is for consultation to take place at regular intervals outside elections and for an opinion to be sought from the Dutch electorate. This must be done not only through representative democracy, but also through direct democracy. Mr. Chairman. In 1999, a bill for the referendum in this Chamber fell because of one vote against. Subsequently, on 1 July 2015, a weakened form came back: the consultative referendum. This was seen as an appropriate means of increasing citizens' influence on policy, but was not long-term. After three years and only three referendums, the Bill Repeal of the Advisory referendum Act was adopted on 10 July 2018 with 40 votes in favour and 35 against, including 50PLUS. Mr. Chairman. Then back to the present. Today we are discussing the corrective referendum, which means that a legislative proposal can be ratified after a referendum has been held on this proposal, unless it has been established that there is no need for a referendum. This proposal is based on the report of the Remkes State Commission and the opinion of the Council of State, both of which concluded that the parliamentary system should be made more future-proof. The idea is that holding a referendum can contribute to closing the gap between government and voters. That gap seems to be getting bigger and bigger. If laws are adopted which the majority of the population absolutely does not agree with, this must be corrected. Referenda can ensure greater public support for policy and greater involvement on important societal issues. The provision of information and information on key issues will need to be more widely shared so that the public is no longer excluded. Because the result could be that the legislative proposal passed will still be dead after a referendum has been held. In this way, the electorate can bring the politicians to justice. Mr. Chairman. Is this just a jubilation story or is this correct referendum still a drawback? 50PLUS makes a few comments on this proposal. Other groups rightly pointed to the possible danger that minority rights or protection of their interests might be lost in the majority. How does the initiator intend to ensure that these interests of minorities are always safeguarded? It should be made clear that the provision of information on a legislative proposal is crucial in order to inform citizens sufficiently so that they can make an informed choice. With the 2.5 million low-literate people in the Netherlands, 50PLUS provides a problem. How do you reach the most vulnerable groups in society? Does this go by analogy with the adopted bill of active donor registration system by, for example, sending out a lot of commercials? Is it realistic to expect that this medicine will also be used in the referendums to be held? I would like to hear from my group both the initiator and the Minister how they believe that this necessary provision of information should be made to less easily accessible groups. A second question on the provision of information concerns proper information on the consequences and consequences of the legislation adopted. How do you prevent the so-called disinformation from getting the upper hand? Can incorrect information be filtered at all and, if so, in what way? Again, I would like a reaction from the governor and the initiator. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the amendments that have been adopted in the House of Representatives. My group thinks it is an improvement that municipalities, provinces and water boards are also given the opportunity to hold referendums. The Sneller amendment states that international conventions are not subject to referenda. This also applies to treaties conferring sovereignty. Transfer of sovereignty is an excellent subject on which the people should have a decisive vote. My group in this Chamber regrets this total exclusion. It would have been better if it had only applied to the mixed treaties. I would like to hear from my group whether the initiator sees this exclusion as a violation of his proposal. Mr. Chairman. I mentioned earlier that the bill of the 1999 referendum was blocked by one vote during Wiegel's so-called night. Mr Kox mentioned this as well. Democracy as a state, in which the people rule through the parliament, which is the parliament, had spoken. Half plus one determines the majority. Any decision resulting from this is a democratic decision. The Van der Graaf amendment sets the threshold of outcome in the Constitution at the majority, half plus one, of the number of voters who voted in the most recent Lower House elections. This implies a higher outcome threshold than the threshold of 33.3% recommended by the State Committee. The higher an outcome threshold is set, the higher the turnout must be to reach that threshold. In response to the questions of the PvdA and 50PLUS, the proposer replied in the reply that the practice will have to determine whether this raised threshold will prove to be an impenetrable hurdle. In fact, the initiator says that he cannot estimate the effect of this increased outcome threshold. Mr. Chairman. My question is how, as Members of Parliament, we can then make a proper assessment of this proposal if it is unclear what effect the increased threshold of outcome will have on the feasibility in practice. Mr Ganzevoort also mentioned it. After all, the binding corrective referendum must give the people a real opportunity. It shouldn't be washed nose. The real probability of this happening is reflected in the letter of 13 January last, in which Professor Van der Meer concludes that at a turnout threshold of roughly 40% none of the three referendums held in the Netherlands would have made it. What does this outcome say, so I ask the initiator? The Minister replied by letter dated 13 November 2020 that the development of the increased outcome threshold in practice also depends on several factors. It explicitly mentions the subject before the vote. My group interprets this as follows. More imaginative subjects will make citizens feel more involved and therefore it is reasonable that this should lead to a higher turnout rate. Does the Minister recognise the danger that the involvement of less appealing subjects may decrease, while the consequences of such a law may be more profound than those of popular issues? How does the Minister intend to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u78	I now hear 50PLUS rightly objecting to the exclusion of referenda from international treaties and to the high threshold of outcome. At the same time, I have to say that the 50PLUS Group in the House of Representatives voted in favour of both amendments which have been riding this in the legislative proposal. So I would like to ask what other considerations and beliefs the 50PLUS group in this Chamber has to argue against this now. Does it therefore distance itself from the action that has been taken in the House of Representatives by supporting these amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u79	At 50PLUS it is arranged that the Lower House of course has the political mandate. That goes for all parties as I may assume. But that does not mean that we do not have an independent role here in the First Chamber. As a Member of the European Parliament, I will have to make my own decision on legislative proposals every time, in which I may find things that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats may have voted in favour of, of course, with my entire group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u80	It's good to hear you're making that assessment yourself. But can you perhaps also indicate how you support that consideration and on what grounds you have reached different judgements than your political colleagues in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u81	That has just been debated. Certain information, the letter of 13 January, has just come to us. Among other things, Professor Van der Meer made it very clear that such a very high threshold of outcome could contribute to the fact that in practice the instrument of a referendum turns out to be a shambles. I'll take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u82	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u83	The Minister states that holding a referendum at the same time as a vote or election may affect the turnout rate. The Minister's reasoning holds. I would like to hear 50PLUS or such a merger of referendum and election will then take place consciously or will be kept consciously separate, so that you can steer the turnout rate as it were. This way of manipulating is really undesirable in the eyes of 50PLUS. I would like an answer from the Minister as to whether she recognizes this danger and how she thinks it can be countered by this manipulation. Mr. Chairman. So much for my first-term input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u84	Thank you, Mrs Baay. Mr Nicolaï has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mr President. I was somewhat surprised, because I saw Mr Otten standing for twenty minutes. I thought I could think about what I'm gonna say. But I'm ready. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to thank Mr Van Raak. Our group has always been in favour of such a referendum. I would also particularly like to thank Mr Koole, my fellow senator, who has given us in committee a number of expert opinions which are very critical and, in fact, have put on the table, in a manner of speaking, beyond the dagger punch already caused by the Christian Union amendment. I must also honestly say that I actually missed those expert opinions, because they were not available at the earlier stage. They were also not available at the Lower House when the Christian Union tabled the amendment. In the First Chamber, too, our group has indeed voted in favour of the legislative proposal, but like others, we have an independent review here. We now have those expert opinions and they also call on our group to consider whether or not it is possible to say no to the proposal as it stands. We note that the experts actually say that it is not going to work at the high threshold. You could say that's what made the proposal a wash nose. And when it comes to a referendum in which we give the people the chance to speak, others might say that if we adopt this when it doesn't work, there is talk of folk polishing. I would also like to point out another point raised in Professor Hendriks' expert report, namely the alert function. He actually says: the presence of a real legislative correction leads to activities that should prevent the actual activation of that legislative correction. That is a very wise observation. He then writes: this underlying function of the corrective legislative referendum as a proverbial stick behind the door requires a real chance of activation of the instrument. It does not work if it is very unlikely that one can ever deal with the stick in question. That is a point I should like to take into account both the initiator and his group here in the Upper House. If that outcome threshold is that high, that function actually evaporates. This is a very important function in our group's view. I have a number of questions, including to the Minister, because he is not here for nothing, I would say. First a question to the initiator. You write in the reply: "This is how a high threshold of outcome is laid down in the law, higher than in the opinion of the State Committee. Whether this threshold introduces an 'invisible hurdle', as the members of the political groups of the PvdA and 50PLUS fear, will have to set out the practice of this referendum." Then my question is: how does Mr Van Raak look at the expert opinions that lie ahead? I'd like a response to that. And in the course of his quotation, should we first go into practice to prove that those experts are right? There is also a reaction to this. Finally, what would be wrong if today's proposal were to be withdrawn, or rejected, and if a new draft were to be put forward very quickly, taking into account what the experts are saying at the moment, that the threshold of outcome that has finally been achieved through the amendment would make it a shambles? These are my questions to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u86	A question to Mr Nicolaï. Does he have any information that if it is to be discussed again in the Lower House about the outcome threshold, there will be parties voting in favour of the corrective legislative referendum bill but including a lower outcome threshold?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u87	I don't have that information. But I can also ask the question differently. If we adopt this proposal today, our Constitution will have an unenforceable regime. Do we have the information, then, that is a bit of a suggestion, that if we start to work in practice and it turns out to be impossible, then the House of Representatives will be prepared to lower the higher threshold of outcome laid down in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u88	I believe that this threshold could be met if a corrective legislative referendum were to be held at the same time as high turnout parliamentary elections. We can learn from this and then in due course a whole new constitutional proposal can be made based on practice and perhaps with renewed enthusiasm. It is likely that this will result in parties who are now opposed to the proposal being in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u89	I thought that Mr Koole had already replied extensively with the example of a referendum held six months after a new cabinet took office. You'll have to wait three and a half years. This seems to me to be as absurd as the 40% threshold we have now been faced with. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the questions to the Minister. The Council of State has paid close attention to the history of the whole issue of the introduction of a referendum. But the Council of State has gone even further and has also paid attention to research into social displeasure. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to this and, moreover, to the fellow senators. On pages 13 and 14 of the opinion of the Council of State, recent research is discussed. I'm quoting something. "The fact that not everyone is satisfied is becoming increasingly visible in society and in politics." The researchers point, among other things, to the emergence of protest parties in parliament in the Netherlands now accounting for about 20% to 30% of the votes, as well as spontaneous social movements such as the yellow hoops. They say: "The loss of control is stronger in groups of citizens with lower incomes and lower levels of education, who mainly live outside cities." This, too, is highlighted in these investigations, and finally the Council of State says: "Insofar as this study seems to confirm that the possibility of holding a referendum is one of the measures that could contribute to the reduction of feelings of isolation, alienation and exclusion existing among certain citizens." Mr. Chairman. I live next door to the Museumplein and have seen with amazement how many people have demonstrated there, but especially what kind of disinformation we had to deal with when some of those people were interviewed. That is actually a problem which I would like to put to the Minister. I also tasted, in the words of 50PLUS, that attention is being drawn to this. We can only see that there is an increasing level of disinformation. In the opinion of our group, there is an even greater chance that referendums will take place. How does the Minister see that? That's my first question. My second question is what is currently being done by the government to launch the attack on disinformation and fake news. Not insignificant. Mr. Chairman. Then we get to the position of the big tech companies. I do not know whether the Minister has seen the documentary The Social Dilemma, in which people from different companies, like Google, Facebook and so on, have at some point raised as whistleblowers the extent to which the algorithms used can lead to the emergence of social unrest. They actually say: if you want unrest in Kenya, we turn a switch somewhere and then there will be unrest in Kenya. When you look at that documentary, it scares the hell out of you. Then I say: in history we had to deal with whip speech at mass meetings where "Hail!" And now we're dealing with algorithms that cause the same effect. My question to the Minister is whether she sees it that way. Does she see any danger in that? And would it not be time, especially if we were to give the people more participation through referendums, to tackle these big tech companies? That would give me a lot more peace of mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u90	I share with Mr Nicolaï the great concerns about disinformation and what can happen with it, but my question to him is whether that is specifically for referenda. If you look at what happened in ordinary elections in other countries, for example the rise of Trump, then it happens there as well. Shouldn't it be the case that we do everything we can to prevent disinformation at all in political and electoral processes, whether it be referenda or elections? It's not specifically for referenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u91	I fully agree with Mr Koole. It's not specifically for referenda. It also plays in elections, of course. We have all seen this and it is also pointed out in these studies. But my question is whether this is not the time, when we are faced with the question of whether a law should be passed that will give the people more control, to pay even more attention to that issue. I fully agree with Mr Koole that the issue is not on its own. However, perhaps now is the time to wake up and see how we can take steps in this area as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u92	Thank you for Mr Nicolaï's reply. It is a time to give "the people" more influence, says Mr Nicolaï. Soon there will be another proposal here that is still on the shelf. It wants a different electoral system, in which the preferred vote is increased. Then "the people" will also have more influence. Doesn't that apply equally?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u93	I understand. It may be a little short, but I think Mr Koole agrees with me that, even with regard to disinformation, it is a little tighter when you are organizing a referendum on a specific subject that you can say yes or no about, than when it comes to elections where you can choose between different parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u94	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After D66 Minister Ollongren took away the displeasure consultative referendum of the Dutch voters in her cabinet in 2018, there is finally another bill to make referendums possible. Thanks to Mr Van Raak's own-initiative proposal, for which I would like to thank you very much. It is not, therefore, the case of the Minister of BZK, whereas her argument when repealing the Advisory referendum Act was correct that it had to be withdrawn in order to replace it with something better. We have not seen any concrete initiative by the D66 Minister in the meantime. Instead of proactively brushing up this instrument once considered as a crown jewel of D66, the minister put it deep into a messy forgotten corner of a cellar of Thorbecke's house. Somewhere deep hidden behind a huge pile of black-painted government documents with personal policy ideas, it lay there dust and also some cigar ash from the Night of Wiegel to catch, under a stack of reports from state committees and previously withdrawn or rejected by the established order proposals to introduce a correct binding referendum. Fortunately, thanks to Mr Van Raak, the remedially binding referendum was dusted and even at first reading came to this House. But there are still a few questions to the Minister. Why didn't the Minister himself take any initiative in this area? Does the Minister consider this bill to be the improvement it intended to achieve in repealing the Advisory referendum Act? And does that apply in full to the current legislative proposal, including all restrictions such as the very high threshold of outcome and the limitation of referable issues such as international treaties and constitutional changes? Or would the Minister have chosen a different approach or scheme if she herself, as D66-regent, had come up with something better? In repealing the law on the consultative referendum, the Minister argued that this law was flawed and did not meet expectations. Can the Minister state whether this bill meets her expectations and is therefore not flawed? What made previous referendums supposedly flawed was not the ruling of the electorate, but the succession of the cabinet. Following the referendum on the EU Constitution, the Treaty of Lisbon was agreed. The Ukraine referendum? Still continue with a goat path and an inlay sheet. Ignoring the outcome of the referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act was a long nose to the electorate from the cabinet. The same applies to the retroactive failure to refer to the repeal law of the Advisory referendum Act. Such regent political choices have nothing to do with the instrument of referendum, but everything to do with the defeat of Dutch citizens by the Rutte cabinet. Big words about strengthening the democratic system are hollow words when the electorate is treated in this way. As for the power of representative democracy, what is left of it when certain groups in the Tower are invited to make deals with the cabinet in the backroom for a majority vote on matters that have never been put to the vote in an election programme? It is clear that a democratic emergency braking procedure is essential. Voters can gain greater involvement and confidence in our democratic system through direct democracy. The present correct and binding referendum can contribute to this. The Dutch citizen also needs it. Research carried out by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau in 2018 shows that as many as 70% of Dutch people are in favour of a binding referendum. As a PVV, we are always in favour of as much direct democracy as possible, of the participation and influence of our citizens. In all of our election programmes, we have been clear about this from the start, and this year too, we make it clear that the PVV wants a government that is there for its citizens, not only for those who belong to the left-liberal elite, with directors who can be dealt with for their actions. The power must go back to the Dutchman. For example, we want an elected mayor and a low-threshold, binding corrective referendum. It's literally part of our election program. That is why the present legislative proposal for a binding corrective referendum is also a step in the right direction. At first reading before the amendment of the Constitution, we are asked to give an opinion on the desirability of this. It is clear that this is a very desirable step, but it should ultimately be a low-threshold corrective referendum and, unfortunately, the outcome threshold of about 40% in this bill is extremely high as a result of an amendment by the Christian Union in the House of Representatives. The criticism, including from experts, of this high threshold of outcome is quite justified. It cannot and should not be the intention that the binding corrective referendum be virtually unusable for our citizens. At the same time, however, it is not desirable to use this as grounds for rejection for the legislative proposal as such. Better a referendum with a high horde for now than no referendum at all. It is a first step in the right direction, and if a legislative proposal is heavy enough for the voters, then the threshold of outcome is not absolutely impossible either. For example, in the 2005 referendum on the European Constitution, there was a 63.3% turnout of voters, around 7.7 million voters. 61.6% voted against the EU Constitution, some 4.7 million voters. There was an 80% turnout at the previous parliamentary elections in 2003, with 9,654,475 valid votes. The outcome threshold would then be around 4.8 million voters, which would not have been achieved in accordance with the rules of the present legislative proposal. But it was very close and that shows that the outcome threshold can be met with some democratic challenge, as long as the interests of voters to reject a law are large enough. New Zealand, for example, has shown that it is a feasible hurdle, including in a referendum on a legislative proposal on the corrective tick. That is why, despite this unnecessarily high threshold of outcome, this law deserves a fair chance, so that our citizens can also give a democratic corrective tap.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u96	It is not every week, but Mr Van Hattem and I share the intentions, and that is a good thing. We want there to be a better connection, that the citizen has a say, that he can correct and so on. Mr Van Hattem says that this is a step in the right direction. But the question is this. It is a gap that needs to be bridged. A step towards the rift doesn't help. He himself says that the threshold is actually very high. We know from the analyses that none of the referenda would have made it so far. The question then is whether this step is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u97	In any case, it is a constitutional possibility that is given to the electorate. It's either this or not at all. If we have to go back to the House of Representatives with a novelle, a motion or whatever, we have to wait for a new election round anyway, and then we will be a few years further before we can settle it constitutionally. That is the first restriction that will then be imposed. The second point is that it is very much the question whether there will be a majority in the House of Representatives at all. As we have just heard, there are no signals for that at the moment. Then it would be better to come up with a new constitutional change after the next Lower House elections to lower that threshold. Then we have the opportunity to settle it in a better way. It is essential that we take that step now, so that there is that possibility. Even if the horde is high, rather a high horde in which the citizen gets the chance to do it, it is not easy, but at least there is no referendum at all. That last thing is what we have if we let it go now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u98	I understand the pragmatic reasoning. At the same time, I think it's a little too easy. I see 50PLUS is under consideration and I can't imagine D66 not thinking. So I think there is a possibility of a conversation. But the question is another. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u99	Follow up on your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u100	The question is another one. The question was whether the step in the right direction would bring us closer to the gap or bridge the gap. That is the point that I think Mr Van Hattem should be very concerned about, precisely because a group of voters does not consider themselves represented. The question is whether we're not making the problem worse by prepping them some kind of pacifier that makes them think they can do something, but can never actually do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u101	You can see that from a few angles. This gap, which Mr Ganzevoort van GroenLinks is talking about, is largely caused by the establishment, and in particular the left-wing liberal parties, by simply refusing to listen to the citizens on many points. Think of the ever-increasing power of the European Union, the asylum invasion that continues, the Islamisation, the wind farms...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u103	... et cetera. There is simply no listening to the citizens and then you get a gap, just by continuing blind political agitation. At least now there is an opportunity for the citizens, if the legislative proposals are horrible enough, to come up massively and say: we are not going to take this, we are going to put this proposal aside. At least they have a chance, and otherwise there's no chance at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u104	Mr Ganzevoort, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u105	Now we had just gotten as close together and Mr Van Hattem has to say these words again. Let's not do that, let's not talk about all those things that we might think differently about. We have a shared interest in giving the voters, the citizens, the chance to have real influence through collective referendums. My question was: aren't we going to widen the gap when we're telling them something that's never gonna work, which just makes them more frustrated? That was my question. Let's leave the other things out for a while and see what we can really talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u106	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u107	Then I would like to quote Mr Goethe in a slightly different direction. Goethe said: "Wer Großes will, muß sich zusammenraffen; in der Beschränkung zegt sich erst der Meister, und das Gesetz nur kann uns Freiheit geben." In other words, if we as citizens want something to change, we can do so. In any case, this gives them the constitutional opportunity to say: we are going to launch a binding corrective referendum, so that we can put a terrible climate law out of the way of GroenLinks. As long as it's serious enough, they have the opportunity to do so. Now they have absolutely no such opportunity, and it will be a possibility in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u108	I think that Mr Van Hattem is right to raise a point that our group has raised some doubts about whether we are going to vote for or against. If the citizens are against something, they must, of course, be given a chance to speak through such a referendum. That is undoubtedly the case. But our group is actually more concerned about the following. This is in line with the previous question, and I would like an answer from Mr Van Hattem. In many cases, this massiveness will not occur and people will try to achieve something through that referendum that is being introduced. Then they simply cannot achieve it because that outcome threshold is simply too high. Those people are getting even more frustrated than they already were. I have already referred to the investigations which the Council of State has also looked at. Isn't that a dangerous thing? How does Mr Van Hattem view this? Of course, in the event that citizens are against something massive, we need this, but it's not always massive. Then you might get a situation where the gap gets even bigger. I would like a response from Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u109	I have to say this: the thinking does not dwell solely on this bill. There are opportunities to approach the citizen even without amending the Constitution. In any case, you could listen better and take more into account, but other instruments are also possible. Council and consultative referenda may also be used without amending the Constitution. This can be done in the short term. If legislative proposals are put forward to make this possible, at least this hurdle will be overcome and there will also be other ways of taking into account citizens' concerns and wishes. So in the area of direct democracy, you can take more paths than just this path. But for the few times that it is necessary to use the heavy instrument of a binding corrective referendum, as far as I am concerned, it may be used more often and that threshold may be lower, and now it has to be with a high hurdle, but for the time being with that high hurdle. But then at least there's the possibility of picking up the people together and doing it the once or twice that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u110	Mr Van Hattem talks about the process: let's start now; rather not with that high hurdle, but it is in it. I'd like to talk about that process. What does this mean? If, according to the experts, this high hurdle means that it will never be feasible and that people will also refrain from trying a referendum at all, experience must first be gained. Then you may be six or seven years away, because you have to have some experience and have held a referendum several times in order to conclude what the experts are already saying, namely that it is unfeasible. A new constitutional process should then be launched. Then you'll be together maybe ten, twelve years before you have a binding referendum. The question is whether you should not say: take this proposal back now and try to improve it through a novelle; then you can have a much better proposal within four years. Isn't that the way you should be going? Otherwise, wouldn't the PVV actually vote for some kind of pacifier for the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u111	We're not for a pacifier. At least we want to give a constitutional opportunity to do it, if it is really necessary. How many referendums have we had in recent years? They can be counted on one hand. It is better to give at least now a chance to do so. For example, in New Zealand it has already been shown that it is also an opportunity to do it even with such a high threshold of outcome. I'm not happy with it, but at least it's a good starting point. If we say "we'll be four years later," we'll have nothing for four years. You'll still be empty-handed. So if Mr Koole says we're gonna do it that way, we're gonna have to start from scratch. Then it is a procession of Echternach: one step forward and two steps back. That does not help the public at all. You leave the citizen empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u112	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u113	No, I don't think so. I really want to give the citizen influence and take their concerns seriously. Then the proposal has to change. On the point of New Zealand, which has been mentioned a few times. Two referenda would have had it. It was two referendums that are not the same as the proposal that is now before us. One was initiated by the government and the other was a bottom-up initiative and was then ignored by the government. That has not made the people of New Zealand any happier. That was right, indeed, a pacifier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u114	Thank you. Mr Van Hattem, you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u115	Mr. Chairman. I was at my next point. As soon as the political relations lend themselves to this, perhaps already after the forthcoming Lower House elections, new steps can be taken to make any adjustments in this context. Now, just before the Lower House elections, drawing up a novel would only cause unnecessary delays throughout the legislative process, especially when there are enough legislative proposals that affect citizens deeply. Dramatic climate legislation, taking away natural gas connections, laws facilitating mass immigration, nitrogen laws, disproportionate degradation of civil liberties, and politically correct undermining of the free internet, social media and freedom of expression, et cetera, et cetera. There are plenty of things forced on by the left-wing liberal and europhile elites that are heavy enough for many citizens to pull the democratic brake on such legislation with a binding corrective referendum. If the formal outcome threshold is not reached, at least a strong signal has been sent to politics. Moreover, the possibility of a possible referendum already puts the necessary pressure on the front of the legislative process to think carefully about the interests of our citizens. In addition, this proposal also provides for the possibility of binding corrective referenda at decentralised level. It is essential that citizens can also locally and provincially whistle back their directors with a referendum on, for example, council proposals for the construction of mosques, azc's sites and the construction of wind farms. Now all too often, citizens are being beaten and drivers are hiding behind vague agreements in regional energy agreements or climate objectives, or they are simply trying to do the right thing collectively, and no council member is seriously afraid to object to asylum reception or the establishment of a mosque, out of political correction fear of being called racist or populist. It is precisely then that citizens need to be able to correct this by means of a referendum. Finally. It cannot and should not be the intention of government to circumvent referendums by shifting many cases to AMvBs, general measures of governance. Can the Minister indicate to what extent this can be prevented? Mr President, as far as first time is concerned. I look forward with interest to the reaction of the petitioner and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u116	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u117	Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying that I like history more than birds. On January 1, 1999, Doris Haddock, also called Granny D, started a walk right through the United States to demand a review of how election campaigns were funded. She started as a 88-year-old on January 1st in Southern California and followed the southern route to Washington D.C. She arrived in Washington on February 29, 2000, at the age of 90. Meanwhile, she had celebrated two birthdays; she was born on January 24th. She's crossed 12 states. In all major cities, she gave lectures and interviews on politics. In particular, she denounced the way election campaigns were funded. "This country has become one in which, in order to run for office, a poor man has to sell his soul, or he has to be a multimillionaire. That's not democracy." Mr. Chairman. Granny D was concerned with the quality of democracy. That's why she ran that march. That's why she didn't rest until she was stopped at the age of 100. Mr. Chairman. In our group's view, this proposal also deals with the quality of our democracy. The key question is: does a binding corrective referendum lead to a better quality of our representative democracy? The Christian Union Group congratulates the initiator on his law. He has already travelled a considerable route and, to put it this way, has the necessary kilometers ahead of him. Our group also shares the intention of the initiator, namely to improve the quality of democracy. Our group also hopes that the necessary answers will be forthcoming in the debate. I would like to raise three questions in a row. The first question is: is a corrective referendum a good solution to the problems of substantive representation identified? The second question is: does the corrective referendum lead to greater confidence in democracy? Thirdly, does the corrective referendum fit in with our fundamental views on the democratic rule of law? Mr. Chairman. Why a binding corrective referendum? The explanatory statement, which is largely based on the Remkes Committee's report, points to the importance of a representation of the electorate in terms of content. The root of the problem is that the way in which we organized our representative democracy enables decisions to be taken which are not shared by the majority of the population, the so-called Ostrogorsky paradox. This paradox relates first of all to the phenomenon that agreements in the government agreement can lead to a parliamentary majority sometimes representing a minority of voters. The explanatory memorandum also mentions a special feature of this paradox, namely the phenomenon of higher-skilled citizens being better represented in the representative bodies on some topics rather than lower-educated ones. I only put that in quotes for a moment, so there is an imperfect reflection. Mr. Chairman. The original paradox relates to a political minority. The specialization concerns one specific socio-economic group, and it is also possible to set up other socio-economic groups there. But it is also possible to replace other cultural, religious or philosophical groups. There is more to this. All these groups can form a majority, but they can also form a minority. I come to the key question. Is the corrective referendum a solution for the representation of the different groups that make up our society? Imagine that the specialization involves a majority of the Dutch population. In that case, a binding corrective referendum would indeed lead to a beneficial correction. Our group sees that as well. But what if there is a political minority, as with the original paradox? Or if you're going to look at the specialization of a social minority, a minority group? Imagine that on the basis of the coalition agreement or on the basis of whatever the two chambers adopt a law that protects the rights and interests of certain minority groups. Imagine having a corrective referendum on that law and the law being rejected. In this example, the corrective referendum would therefore be counterproductive. The minority group's voice is not heard and is therefore, even more so, defeated by the corrective referendum. A question from our group is on the basis of which scientific data the initiator can suggest that this counterproductive effect does not or hardly occur. Or do I now use the wording of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance in the report, in other words: how can we ensure that legislation protecting minority rights is corrected by a majority? I would like a response from the initiator and also from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u118	A brief question to Mr Verkerk. He's right to display a number of risks. He also likes history. Green of Prinster once said: I desire popular influence, not popular government. Shouldn't you say stop this route around the corrective referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u119	Thank you for the question. I understand this question. If we also look at the time when Green van Prinster wrote his books, then it was also against the revolution, against the French revolution, which also has all kinds of unconstitutional aspects. Our group does not believe that the corrective referendum should always be at odds with our representative democracy. To put it this way, our group goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u120	That's a clear nuance. Maybe a little clearer. Not always, but if in some cases it can, doesn't Mr Verkerk see that great risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u121	Thank you for listening so closely. I shall come back to this in the course of my speech. Mr. Chairman. Then, when a vote is taken, how should we interpret such a result? The initiator says that in such a case the compromise cannot count on sufficient support. This answer raises questions. After all, it is not clear how the rejection of the law should be interpreted. Does the majority of the population disagree with the law? Does the majority not agree with the compromise contained in the law? Or does the majority disagree with the need to protect the interests and rights of the minority in question? In other words, how can the initiator be so sure that the majority of the population only envisages the balance of the compromise? I'd like a substantiated response from the initiator. Mr. Chairman. It is very interesting that the explanatory statement on page 3 actually says about a particular specialization of the Ostrogorsky paradox: "It is precisely those groups of citizens who are less covered in representative democracy and the parliamentary system and who are less using other channels of political participation that are particularly welcome in the referendum as an instrument." The Christian Union Group is sensitive to this argument. In 1964, the philosopher McLuhan introduced the theorem "the medium is the message." The core of this theorem is that the way you communicate the message marks an important mark on the meaning of that message. If there is a political variant of this statement, I do not know, then it would mean that the right choice of a democratic means is of great importance. And then it might be that the choice of means of corrective referendum will indeed have the meaning that the views groups of citizens who are less addressed in our present democracy really matter. So our group's question is: is it reasonable to make it possible for citizens to vote in a correct referendum and not in ordinary votes? I have borrowed that last expression from the SGP, thank you, and will the corrective referendum really have the meaning of having to hear the voice of those citizens? I'd like a response from the initiator. Mr. Chairman. I come to my second question. Does the corrective referendum lead to greater confidence in representative democracy? One of the biggest problems could be in our democratic political climate of our time. Our group is thinking of the phenomena of disinformation and polarisation. The key question is: could it be that populist groups are getting on with these kinds of issues, which frustrates the social debate and increases the contradictions in society? The Council of State also points to this danger and to several colleagues. The standard response of the initiator to these kinds of points is: "I don't think so." This answer surprises us. The corrective referendum is about social hot issues. And every hot issue is interpreted from and/or incorporated into conspiracy theories. Again the question: could the holding of a corrective referendum not lead to an increase in the contradictions in society and to a reduction in confidence in democracy and in government? Would this not be strengthened if the result was that a majority rejected the proposal, but that the outcome threshold was not met? I'd like a response from the initiator and from the minister. I come to my third point. The corrective referendum raises fundamental constitutional and philosophical questions. The Council of State points out the danger that a corrective referendum could contribute to the idea that important aspects of the existing consensus democracy would be exchanged for that of a majority democracy and that a corrective referendum would give more scope to the view that the will of the majority should determine political decision-making. And so, warns the Council, a certain tension can arise with our consensus democracy, with the result that minorities could be less protected. This kind of criticism is not refuted, as the initiator does, by saying that a corrective referendum does not change the process of our representative democracy. This kind of criticism is also about the "spirit of time" that is nestling in our views on democracy. It is the "spirit of postmodern times" in which the "I" is a priority. above "the other." A sign of that spirit is the many e-mails I get in which citizens command me to listen to the voice of the people, to ask certain questions, to send out specific ministers and to align some laws. I'd like a response from the initiator. And I'd also like a response from the Minister on how the cabinet looks at that. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. Our group sees a number of positive points in this initiative law. The Christian Union Group recognises that the corrective referendum can contribute to improving the quality of representative democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u122	Will you finish your contribution? Then we'll go to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u123	Yes. I refer to the McLuhan version of the Ostrogorski paradox and to the example of failing representation. Our group also welcomes the amendment tabled by her party member in the House of Representatives. The high threshold of outcome is best suited to the idea of representative democracy. Our group also sees considerable objections. In the view of the Christian Union, a "principal and profound change in the state system" requires a "fundamental motivation." I use the words of the Council of State here. In my group's view, this in-depth justification is lacking until now. It also finds it painful that fundamental questions asked by this Chamber have not been answered. Our group also points out the danger that minorities will be less well protected. That is a danger that weighs heavily. In a pluralistic society like ours, there are by definition many minorities. Finally, the Christian Union Group invites the initiator to reflect on the political-democratic climate in which a corrective referendum should be held. I'm closing up. The story Granny D. may inspire this Chamber to fight for the quality of the rule of law up to an old age. From that perspective, even our oldest member has more than 20 years to go. In this battle, the journey may be more important than the result. The same applies to the political variant of McLuhan's message: the journey gives meaning to the message. The group looks forward to the answers of the initiator and the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u124	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u125	Thank you for your speech. I have heard you say that you agree with the threshold of outcome contained in the amendment of the Christian Union in the House of Representatives. My question to you is: how do you respond to the criticism of the three scientists who have been asked by the First Chamber to give their opinion on that threshold? They were very critical, as you know. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u126	I welcome this question. I'll be honest with you about what happened to me. When I read those reports, my first reaction was: they're right. And of course you have in mind: my fellow party member in the House of Representatives has done this wrong and misbalanced. Nevertheless, in the light of the opinion of the Council of State and also of contacts and discussions within the party, I have wondered what is actually happening. This corrective referendum also has to do with our representative democracy. If you look from representative democracy, you can imagine saying: I have to have half plus one of the previous elections. That is to show respect for all those citizens who voted in the previous elections with a certain result for the Chamber. A cabinet emerged from that and a legislative proposal came out of it. That's the bill that a lot of Dutch people say: well, that's not good. Then I find it in line with this reasoning to say: let half plus one vote against. We are not alone in this line of reasoning. The Council of State, too, is a very important body with a lot of stature. That would be my response to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u127	Suppose that outcome threshold would be lowered in a new bill, a novelle or whatever. Would that be a good reason for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to reject the corrective legislative referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u128	I think it is too early to answer that. In my final word, I said that a number of fundamental questions need to be answered. I don't know if the initiator wants a novelle either. He even said in a debate in the Lower House that he found novelles semi-unconstitutional. If he keeps doing that here, I don't expect him to. So that is just too far ahead of the final evaluation that our group will be doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u129	Continuing at this point: I was a little surprised by that statement. That was not so much because of the thought that Mr Verkerk would follow his partymates across the street. I can imagine. But I think what he's saying contradicts what he said before. He said paraphrasingly earlier in his speech, because I do not literally remember the words "it would be very damaging if citizens voted against massively and then did not reach the threshold." I do not understand why he claims to be at this very high threshold, except when he says that this representative democracy is so essential to him that he actually sees that remedially binding referendum as a risk to parliamentary democracy and that he therefore prefers not to see it happen. So I don't understand the contradiction in his argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u130	Thank you for this question. If you put it that way, I realize I might have had to formulate a little more clearly. In that part of my story I was talking about disinformation and the growing social contradictions and that a corrective referendum is being held in such a situation. If that is kept and it is then rejected because the outcome threshold is not reached, however high it may be, then that is not important, then my question to the initiator and to the Minister is: how do they look at the use of that referendum from that phenomenon? That was the context of this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u131	I understand that and that point of disinformation, of course, deserves serious attention. The question is, of course, whether it is entirely right to limit this to the risk that citizens will get frustrated when they see that they are voting against massively and with a clear majority and still fail because of the threshold of outcome. Wouldn't that lead to frustration in every circumstance? And isn't it the question whether those disinformation and polarization are even there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u132	I understand your point. I would ask you, however, to put my point in the context I indicated, because our group is in line with the Council of State's thinking, which is based on representative democracy and the democratic legitimacy of the cabinet which is issuing the law on which a corrective referendum comes. That cabinet was elected with 80% turnout, say half plus one; I'll just mention something. From this point of view, I also understand the choice made by the House of Representatives on the proposal of a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u133	Thank you. Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u134	Yeah, because there's just another point being raised right now than I asked for. I understand the reasoning of the Council of State, but Mr Verkerk must also admit that that was a very moderate reasoning that did not include a comprehensive story. That reasoning is also lied to by the scientific analysis that we received afterwards. As a man of science, Mr Verkerk must also be sensitive to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u135	Yes, Mr Verkerk is sensitive to the voice of science, and Mr Verkerk is also sensitive to the fact that, if a majority rejects a proposal while the outcome threshold has not been reached, it also, of course, causes frustration to those who are in favour. But that is independent of the level of the outcome threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u136	Mr. Kox. I'd like a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u137	Mr. Chairman. In the House of Representatives, the groups of the Christian Union and the SP voted in favour of this bill, although the Christian Union is sceptical about this point and the SP enthusiastically, let me put it this way. But now I hear Mr Verkerk say that he is asking the initiator to better support his proposal, because he says that it is not sufficiently substantiated. Is it not the case, I would ask Mr Verkerk, that this proposal is based on a major investigation by the State Committee on the Rules of Procedure, established at our request, and that it builds on previous legislative proposals? Is it not true that the idea of a binding corrective referendum is respected in this proposal, as was done by the State Committee, and that it is relatively simple? The idea of a referendum is not complicated and the idea of a binding corrective referendum is not complicated either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u138	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u139	So what else needs to be substantiated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u140	In an opinion, the Council of State made it quite clear that the argument was limited in relation to a number of fundamental constitutional considerations. In the response given by the initiator in the further report, I have not been able to find that further justification. Let me give you one example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u141	I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u142	The question of what a corrective referendum does to the interests and rights of minorities is not discussed in the explanatory statement, or in my view not sufficiently. Nor is that question discussed in the pleadings on the basis of the report. For example, I think that is a very fundamental shortcoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u143	Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u144	That question has been asked to the initiator, so I assume he will respond to it, but it is not the case that a binding corrective referendum is something out of the blue. It is something that exists in all countries in Europe except Belgium and Bosnia. It's something that's had years of experience. And it is what the state committee, set up at our request and at the request of the House of Representatives, has proposed as a modernisation of and a complement to our parliamentary democracy. The answer to the question about the importance of minorities will certainly come, I suppose, but otherwise this is a well-known proposal. It's not something new, it's just new in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, we have never mentioned it in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u145	Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u146	I agree with Mr Kox that it is a well-known phenomenon and that it is only new in the Netherlands. But it is fair to say that the Council of State also finds that the argument about this law is limited or at least can be deeper and wider, let me put it this way, and that a number of questions are not discussed by the Remkes Committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u147	Finally, Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u148	We do agree that the Remkes Committee is in favour of the Council of State giving a positive opinion on this bill and that a majority of the House of Representatives, including your group, voted in favour of this bill. So there seems to be some basis under the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u149	Thank you. Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u150	A fine speech by Mr Verkerk ended with a comment on the threshold that his colleague on the other side put in this bill through an amendment. He said: I was actually convinced at first by the opinions of the experts, but later I started to think about it and we discussed it in the party. The reasoning is: if it is then a law based on a majority of the Lower House through the elections, then at least half plus one of them must be opposed. You can say a lot of things about that. So that ignores all behavioral information about referendums that are separate from such a general question of power as is the case in national elections. But my question to Mr Verkerk is: does he mean that if you continue with that reasoning, then you can only hold such a referendum with such a high threshold, at the same time as Parliamentary elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u151	I personally did not think about that last question in terms of timing. That has already been said in this debate and in interruptions. I think, of course, that it would be preferable to do this together, but if that is not possible, it should be possible for us to do so separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u152	Thank you. I'll suspend the meeting on request for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u153	I give the floor to Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u154	Thank you, Mr President. It is already 22 years since the second reading of the legislative proposal in the First Chamber came to the vote on a binding corrective legislative referendum. D66 had it included in the government agreement of the second purple cabinet of PvdA, VVD and D66. I would like to quote from the programme Other Times of public service broadcasting: 'It has been brewing in the Senate for some time now, because five members of the VVD............................................................................................................................................................................................................ D66 leader Thom de Graaf threatens a cabinet crisis if not all VVD senators will vote in favour in line with the coalition agreement. During the 16-hour debate the pressure on this 'gang of 5' will be increased further. By Prime Minister Kok but also by the VVD party summit, who wants to prevent a cabinet crisis and new elections. This political thriller will be broadcast live by the NOS from midnight: more than 400,000 television viewers will stay on. Each voice counts and the stakes are high: the survival of Purple II. Finally, in the roll-call vote, it appears that four dissident senators are succumbing to pressure and voting in favour. Finally, Hans Wiegel's name is called on to cut the tension. Do you think he's gonna end up dealing with it? But then his impeccable "against" sounds. For the time being, the referendum can be put in the wastebasket and a few hours later, Prime Minister Kok must offer the resignation of his second purple cabinet." "For now, get in the trash." Now, 22 years later, there is a new proposal to regulate the binding corrective legislative referendum. Thank you to the initiator, Mr Van Raak, who has redesigned the subject in an initiative law. This also means that the subject is important enough to try again. This is, of course, also due to the report of the Parliamentary Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which has low thresholds, high dikes, which has the subtitle: democracy and the rule of law in balance. The State Committee led by Johan Remkes clearly supports the introduction of the binding corrective legislative referendum. The State Committee sees the corrective referendum as an important contribution to modernising and complementing representative democracy and to the future stability of the parliamentary system. The corrective referendum is as valve, safety valve or emergency brake of value and significance. It keeps politics sharp, ensures that political choices become more responsible and offers an additional incentive in advance to respond well to changed preferences and views among the population. By the way, there have been more state committees that advocated its introduction. I refer to the Biesheuvel State Commission in its final report from 1985 and the Deetman Commission and the section of Mr De Koning in 1993. For a long time, D66 has advocated the introduction of this type of referendum, with the same argument as that of the State Committee. It is also included in our new electoral programme. We see the emergency braking procedure as a means of closing the gap between voters and elected representatives and strengthening the involvement of citizens in representative democracy. But, Chairman, that does not mean that D66 is following the present bill as amended by the House of Representatives without criticism. We have difficulty with the threshold of outcome specifically laid down in the Constitutional Treaty, which means that the number of votes against should be at least 50% of the turnout at the last Lower House elections. At the 2017 Lower House elections, the turnout was 82%. This means that, in a corrective legislative referendum to be held, more than 41% of the voters who are entitled to vote must have voted against the present legislative proposal if it is to be rejected. The fact that an outcome threshold has been agreed in the Constitutional text has so far been a possibility for it to be incorporated into ordinary parallel legislation, but we are concerned with the level of the outcome threshold. Too low a threshold risks results that are sometimes not representative, but too high a threshold risks that a successful referendum will become almost unfeasible. Each threshold must find a golden middle ground between these two extremes. The D66 Group believes that the chosen construction has a very high threshold and will therefore become an obstacle to a valid referendum in the future. This seems almost certain when it comes to a corrective legislative referendum outside the Lower House elections. Suppose a law was passed a year after the election. Then the referendum will be held well before the next Lower House elections. A high turnout reaching the threshold of the outcome threshold seems to be excluded in advance. Perhaps it will be possible to make it possible for a correct referendum to be held at the same time as the Lower House elections. The question is therefore quite justified as to what this will do with the confidence of voters who have gone to the polls, but do not see their judgment processed and yet see the law they were hoping for enter into force. How does the Minister view this? I'd like a reflection. And how does the initiator view this? Of course, we are not alone in our criticism. This has already been shown in the previous debate in this Chamber. The Permanent Chamber of the Interior has asked three scientists to look again at that threshold and all three are quite critical, very critical. They consider that the outcome threshold contained in the legislative text is unrealistic and unnecessary. They point out that in countries with similar referendum legislation, the outcome threshold is around 30%. The state commission led by Johan Remkes came to 33 1/3%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u155	I have a question for Mr Dittrich. Your party helped the amendment with that outcome threshold to a majority in the House of Representatives. In view of the position papers of the professors, what they argue in them and what you now indicate: to what extent are you prepared, if this proposal goes back, to engage with your colleagues on the other side, your colleagues, and to say "ladies and gentlemen, this may not have been considered so well"? Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u156	I am always willing to have good discussions, especially with my fellow party members, but I also have in mind what it will bring in terms of the legislative proposal. Will it yield a two-thirds majority in due course? I think that the balance in the Lower House Group of D66 was made with the calculator in hand: if the Labour Party and the GroenLinks in the First Chamber were to vote for the bill we are discussing, it could come to a second reading and then there would be a two-thirds majority in this composition of the First Chamber for the bill and then we have a corrective legislative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u157	Okay. Suppose, after all, that they would be chosen for a novelle, for example, would you then be willing to convince them that they should be in favour of that change? Is that your conviction? Do you think you will succeed in convincing your partymates of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u158	Yes, I'm willing to consult with them. By the way, we should first see if there is a majority for a novelle and send it back. That is a question that has already been asked to Mr Van Raak, the initiator. First of all, of course, I would like to hear his answer to that. Assuming that a majority and the initiator say: we are going to send the whole proposal back and we ask the House of Representatives to reconsider, of course I am in favour of consulting. In the end, I am concerned about introducing a corrective legislative referendum in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u159	Do we indeed have a correct binding referendum or do we have a photo of a referendum: Ceci n'est pas une pipe?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u160	That is a very fair question. I should like to comment on this in detail in the course of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u161	Then I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u162	Do you want me to do that? For in practice, as measured by the turnout at the last Lower House elections, the threshold of outcome contained in the legislative text is more than 40%. By accepting the amendment of the Christian Union in the Lower House it seems as if the Lower House has made the corrective legislative referendum extremely difficult. We regret that. But we also see different views between political parties on the corrective legislative referendum. That is why I have interrupted Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union and asked him how he is opposed to the corrective legislative referendum if that high threshold does not appear in the legislative text. By introducing a high threshold into the Constitution, some opponents have managed to cross the line and to see the proposal before us as a final piece of representative democracy. Without such a higher threshold in the Constitution, they would again oppose the whole proposal and then there was no corrective referendum at all, because unfortunately that is also the reality. Mr. Chairman. Here, in fact, the Court of First Instance has no right of amendment or a right to return. For us senators, the bill is swallowing or suffocating. If we vote against the initiative legislative proposal, we are sure that this corrective referendum law will not be adopted. But if we vote in favour, with this threshold, there is a good chance that few successful referendums will be held. Another possibility is to submit a whole new Constitutional proposal to the House of Representatives, but then the existing problem comes back here, namely that parties think very differently about the conditions and the threshold of outcome and that a compromise has to be found in political practice. My question is then, both to the initiator and to the minister and to my colleagues here: would that compromise be very different from what is now before us, bearing in mind, of course, that a two-thirds majority must be found in both the Second and the First Chambers at a second reading?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u163	Mr Dittrich always insists on achieving that two-thirds majority and that compromises must be made. But, of course, in this Chamber, we are also looking at the content of that proposal. The content of the proposal is very high in terms of that threshold. He also says that there will probably be very few referendums. My question to Mr Dittrich is: why not try to take that back and indeed ask the House of Representatives: there must be a high threshold, but why, for example, is the high threshold proposed by the State Committee not also working? Then maybe that could be put in a novelle. So the discussion is not about whether or not a high threshold, but is about whether it is a feasible high threshold or an unfeasible high threshold. Would Mr Dittrich consider finding a way to get a viable high threshold in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u164	I would like to devote my power of thought to a legislative proposal that ultimately achieves a two-thirds majority in second reading, so that we have a corrective legislative referendum in the Netherlands. I believe that this is possible with the proposal as it stands, but it also depends on your group, those of GroenLinks and others who may now wish to vote against it again. But if that is not the case, then at least we have a corrective legislative reference. Your question to me is: isn't that some kind of pacifier? Because in practice this may hardly ever be possible. But I think it would be possible if it were combined with Lower House elections, depending on the subject matter. Then we have something we can build on. Then we have a start of a practice and perhaps people will become even more enthusiastic and also colleagues in the First and Second Chambers. Then we can indeed come up with a new constitutional proposal in due course, for example, to bring down that threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u165	Mr Dittrich says that we will have the beginning of a practice, but it may well be a practice of disappointment, in which the people will be disappointed by the fact that every time a referendum is held that entry threshold cannot be met. That's what the experts are warning us about. Then why not go for the road of a referendum with a feasible, high threshold? And why is Mr Dittrich not confident that colleagues across the street are open to new information, as suggested by those experts, so that they can also change their opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u166	We can do a few things. We can continue with this bill and vote in favour of this bill. Then it was adopted by us at first reading and it goes back to the Lower House after the elections, so then the route of this bill runs. Thought could be given to table a whole new bill, perhaps even to agree on a cabinet formation, and parties could then agree on it. All that can be done, but what I would like to warn you about is that we can all die here in beauty, by sketching beautiful views of brilliant corrective legislative referenda, but they will never make it to the finish line. Then we're 50 years away and we haven't achieved anything. So I think a little pragmatism is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u167	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u168	Mr Dittrich talks about magnificent views, but it is just very practical whether it is feasible or not. There are not impossible suggestions, it must of course be feasible high thresholds. If Mr Dittrich were to go along and say 'we are voting in favour', we would at least have a referendum. But that is a referendum that could turn out to be a pacifier. D66 is sensitive to the discussion on referenda. D66 doesn't want to be known as the party of the pacifier referenda, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u169	No, and we also don't want to be known as a party to the corrective legislative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u170	You continue your argument, Mr. Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u171	But there's a dilemma we're facing. I would therefore like to hear the Minister's reflection on that dilemma that I outlined and, of course, the initiator. I would ask the Minister to give her appreciation of the contribution of the three state lawyers who are so critical of that threshold of outcome, and also an appreciation of the initiator. Mr. Chairman. We certainly consider other thresholds to be negotiable. Those thresholds are not in this bill that we are discussing today, but they can be dealt with in parallel legislation. The state committee has already written extensively about this and has argued it. Then I am thinking of the number of signatures of the introductory request, 5,000 to be placed at the town hall within four weeks, after the promulgation of the bill in the State News, and the 400,000 supporting signatures that can be digitally placed to enable the final referendum request to be made within six weeks of the approval of the introductory request. We will discuss all this in due course if that parallel legislation is in front of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u172	I would like to go back to a little while ago when Mr Dittrich spoke to the Minister and asked some questions. That minister, also from D66-huis, indicated from the consultative referendum, that it should be the prelude to the corrective referendum, that it was very good to cancel it, because it resulted very much in confusion, disappointment and opposition in society. Is he not afraid that the Minister is right and that this would also apply to the corrective referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u173	Well, I'm not so scared when a specific bill has been passed by the Second and First Chambers that is very appealing. In New Zealand, for example, this was the whole education debate: can parents and teachers give children a corrective tap? A referendum has been requested from the people, and that has become a huge success. I was in Wellington in New Zealand myself and I saw how people really were doing that. That was a successful referendum in the end. So there is a good experience of this in New Zealand. I think that, if we have such a kind of subject in Dutch law practice that really speaks very much to the imagination, we should not be afraid of disappointments at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u174	I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u175	This is an initiative legislative proposal at first reading. Assuming that it is assumed that, in view of the contribution of some people, it has become a cliffhanger in the saga of the corrective legislative referendum, which has been held for decades, it will be retabled after the Parliamentary elections of 17 March. It must then achieve a two-thirds majority in the Second and First Chambers. So it remains, in short, a political thriller with a lot of subplots. In any case, the D66 group in the Upper House looks forward with great interest to the continuation of that political thriller. I can actually say that we will not know the real final result on this file until we have read the last page of that book.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u176	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u177	Thank you, Mr President. It is under special circumstances that we are dealing with this bill. The cabinet just fell. The minister is here as an advisor, but in missionary status. Then you may sometimes be tempted to accentuate the wrong thing, but let's not overlook the right side of the cabinet either. For example, it was this government that was so wise to repeal the Advisory referendum Act. That consultative referendum was also introduced as an adaptation to a correct binding referendum. The cabinet had rightly noted that the political support for this had crumbled. So stop. That's a good idea. This Minister has defended that withdrawal in this Chamber. It is a pity that she must now see another attempt being made to force the corrective referendum on the people. That is what it is all about. For the umpteenth time, an attempt is being made to make the corrective referendum a reality. In 2017, the penultimate attempt was thwarted, I believe, but Mr Van Raak has rejected the draft bill, and I quote his own words "fished and polished out of the trash." And, of course, I congratulate Mr Van Raak on his perseverance, because I also understand that he has gained more than 20 years of political experience on draft legislation on referenda. Today, we're handling his bill. Mr. Chairman. We live in confusing times. Society is plagued by a serious pandemic, the consequences of which are unlikely to be great and serious. This has consequences for all areas of life. On an individual level we notice that the fuse is extra short. We can't have much more of each other and we're looking for scapegoats, more than that: we're looking for our own truths. They're all too easy to deliver. That's what we see all around us. Something happens, someone comes up with a theory, swings it on social media, and we have a new conspiracy theory. Of course, we all know that the first plot was ever forged in paradise. That's where the vile question was asked: is it true that...? And with that first question the doubt was brought in, man began to sin against God, and that gave rise to a society with increasingly complex questions, with increasingly more legislation also to prevent chaos and to regulate society. Laws are given, first of all by God in His good commandments, but also by governments given by God to us for good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u178	There's no definition of conspiracy theory. It's something that obviously doesn't add up, but it's being made up. That God gives laws is an idea, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u179	Faith even.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u180	Of course, I'm never gonna say that's a conspiracy, but some will say that they've never seen a law God has given. I was triggered by Mr Schalk's remark that there is now another attempt to force the referendum on the people. But isn't that also a form of conspiracy thinking, especially when we are talking about a bill that must be adopted by the Lower House at first reading, then by the Upper Chamber and then after elections of the Lower Chamber with two-thirds majority in the Lower Chamber and the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u181	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u182	If that process has been completed, has the people of the Netherlands been forced to do something, or has democracy spoken very extensively with high standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u183	Well, at least the latter is true, that democracy has talked about it for a very long time. Except I think we've lost count. I believe that such a bill has now been killed eight to ten times and every time there are people trying to force it on us again. Perhaps it was not imposed on society, but we are forced to speak about it again. It is perhaps a firm expression, 'enforcement of', because in the end the people have to know for themselves whether or not they will try to achieve a referendum if this ever comes through.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u184	Mr. Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u185	So, Mr Schalk and I agree that nothing is being forced on Parliament here. Parliament is its own master in both chambers, especially with this procedure. The only thing that is consistent is not so much that attempts are always being made to impose something on Parliament, but that there are always two parties in Parliament, the SGP and the CDA, who have consistently tried to prevent the referendum from happening since Pieter Jelles Troelstra's proposal. That's what honor and praise are for. That's the only consistent thing. That we see this as a forced bill, we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u186	I'd say continue your argument, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u187	Thank you. In any case, it is nice to see some consistency in the position of the SGP. I hope it stays that way. By the way, I still believe that God has also given his salutary commandments which also apply to us as a society. However, we are also dealing with parliamentary democracy and in our country the happy fact is that laws are being made and adopted in that democratic rule of law. The principle is that a representative delegation, the so-called People's Assembly, should come to an overall balance with the government in dualism. Our rule of law also does this in two respects. After the Second Chamber, the First Chamber also looks at draft laws. Mr Van Raak is undoubtedly pleased to look back at the period when he was allowed to do so in both chambers, looking here at legality, feasibility and enforcement. That is the playing field and it is well known that Mr Kox has just mentioned that the SGP is in favour of representative democracy, in which elected representatives of the people control the government on behalf of the people. Citizens shall, for a period of four years, give the political party of their preference the power to influence that government policy on the basis of their programme. In a subsequent election, citizens may again give a political party the power to make choices. Politicians who have not fulfilled their promises can also be voted off. Mr. Chairman. This tried and tested system is, in the opinion of the SGP, undermined when a foreign element is introduced, such as the referendum. The practice proves that. Three examples from the recent past have only stirred up confusion and opposition. The outcome was disappointing. I know that was about the consultative referendum, but the cabinet did not withdraw that option for nothing. My question to the Minister is: does the government now think differently about this situation? The question to the author is: why should a corrective referendum not lead to the same thing, namely disappointment, confusion and contradictions in society that are being increased? There's one more thing. This Chamber has suffered a great deal from the possibility of a referendum alone. All kinds of legislative proposals had to be made on the basis of deadlines, which could be invoked in the event of a referendum being launched, under steam and boiling water by committees and by the Chamber in order, for example, to reach the date of 1 January or 1 July. This did not benefit the legislative process at the time. It seems that this can happen again, as can be seen in Article 89c, where it says: 'The ratification of a proposal for a law can take place only after a referendum has been held on this proposal or after it has been established that no referendum will be held on it'. So, after each legislative proposal, we need to observe a period of time when we are looking at whether someone might say after a certain peridode: well, we want to have a referendum on that. How does the petitioner think that this element could be addressed when a referendum is launched? Mr. Chairman. Not only have the experiences been confusing, but also the means of the referendum has simply been abused by dragging entire population groups into a game of "yes" versus "no," while in many cases the complexity of legislative proposals cannot be caught in a single "yes" or "no," at least not without a thorough consideration. Otherwise you would say: we cannot do with this either for or against; here we should be considered to be a thorough consideration, with all the elements taken into account. That is not easy for everyone in the population for a long time. However, does the author agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that a simple 'yes' or 'no' does not do justice to complex issues? And how does the author see this difficulty in the light of past experience? Mr. Chairman. What if there's a corrective referendum after all? What happens after a referendum? Or what? 'Cause the law's gone, in the trash can. Or someone comes by that trash can, fishes out that law, cleans it up and comes back to parliament. And then the whole carousel starts again. That, in my opinion, is exactly what is happening here. In 2017, the previous bill was rejected. And there it is again. The only difference is that it is rejected here on good grounds, on the basis of a debate conducted under state law. Soon, laws will be rejected on the basis of a yes or no from the population. If there is a government or an initiator who is just as persistent as Mr Van Raak, then we will have a new law in no time. The question then is whether the population is getting back into that carousel. What to do with the crippling effect of repeated corrections? Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions on the practical side of the matter. What to do with a referendum on legislation that is absolutely necessary? Think of emergency legislation, as we now have during the corona pandemic. How does the government view this? Let me ask you a question about the thresholds. There are at least two that are important: a turnout threshold, which looks at the number of voters to vote at least in a referendum, and an outcome threshold, which is about whether the majority voting against includes at least a certain percentage of the total number of voters or of those who choose their orphans. To the grief of the initiator, an amendment introduced an outcome threshold into the law. My question is, of course, why is that so bad? Could that outcome threshold be useful, too? Maybe it's interesting to reflect on that as well. What does the government think of the absence of an entry threshold? A threshold that is directly linked to the possibility of repealing legislation is certainly something to be dealt with in concrete terms in the Constitution. This can't be separated from the outcome threshold, can it? Could a turn-out threshold also help to reduce the stalemate in legislative procedures? Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to those conspiracy theories, because that's a sign of our time. It's very easy to put them on their feet. And next thing you know, there's a bunch of people on their feet who take what someone's come up with. Then a referendum is an eminent means of helping conspirators to frustrate the legislative processes in our country. The result has also been appointed by the government: this can lead to disappointments and that can fuel and strengthen social contradictions. What are we doing to society? Mr Van Raak has fished and polished this bill out of the trash. His colleague, Mr Kox, who is now arriving, has asked for a creative solution in this Chamber. My group is proposing that we avoid the trash can and start using the shredder. Maybe that's the creative solution that can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u188	Are you at the end of your speech with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u189	Almost, except for one comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u190	If you'd like to finish, we'll go to Mr. Kox in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u191	My conclusion would be a quote from my eminent predecessor, Mr Holdijk, who, in a previous discussion of the corrective referendum, indicated that democracy has a government that is in favour of the people and not of the people. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u193	It is always a pleasure to see our former colleague Holdijk mentioned here. We're happy to think of his input back. What I found less enjoyable is that Mr Schalk devotes a lot of his time to conspiracy theories in relation to referenda. The simple reality is that all countries throughout Europe have referendums, except Belgium and Bosnia. It cannot be done in Bosnia, because that is where democracy is divided into three constituent peoples, so nothing can be done there, and in Belgium they have a complicated system. Does Mr Schalk know a few examples, or even less, one example elsewhere in Europe that he says has gone completely wrong, where people were given the opportunity to say something about a legislative proposal and then things got completely out of hand? I am not asking for many examples, but if you are so convinced that referenda can be abused for conspiracy, then you must certainly have one or some in your head.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u194	I have concentrated mainly on the situation here in the Netherlands. So I didn't look in all those foreign countries about which referendums have already been held. I know, of course, that this is even common practice in a lot of countries, such as Switzerland. So in that sense, the answer is: no; I didn't investigate that way. But in the last referendums we have had here, although they were consultative, I have noticed that we were all confronted with ideas and thoughts that my group at least had a feeling of: well, whether all this is based on reality? We do not need to go over the Ukraine debate, but I had a very strong feeling, for example: boys, is this what this is about? In what we apparently had to call "drag" at the time, I also had the idea that a referendum would be very easy to use to put something away in a certain way in society. I would not suggest that if this law is passed, only conspirators will try to use a corrective referendum. That is absolutely not the intention of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u195	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Koole, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiator and the government for their response to our questions, although these reactions sometimes tell us more about what is not being answered than by the answers themselves. I will come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. This bill is about an adaptation of our parliamentary democracy. Sometimes it shakes on its foundations these weeks. Last week, the government resigned. Earlier, the political leader of my party resigned. The child care allowance affair led them to that. This affair, as stated by the parliamentary committee of inquiry, is affecting the democratic rule of law. The lives of many innocent ordinary people have been destroyed by a powerful government that faces its own citizens with inappropriate distrust. Despite the fall of the cabinet and despite the corona crisis, in the opinion of the PvdA Group, everything must be done to help these parents as quickly, adequately and generously as possible, so that they can put their lives back on track. Mr. Chairman. Today, in the Chamber, we are discussing the proposal to include provisions on a corrective legislative referendum in the Constitution. At meta level, this is in line with the childcare allowance affair, as I will argue later. But first the idea of a corrective legislative referendum. My party is very much in favour of the introduction of such a referendum as an ultimatum remedium in parliamentary democracy. My political movement, it has been said on many occasions, has been advocating the possibility of a referendum for 100 years, although we certainly had regular discussions on its modalities. Pieter Jelles Troelstra fortunately I have heard his name fall a few times already in 1910 for a referendum, but it would take until this century before, for the first time in 200 years, national referendums were held again. We have had three over the past decades: that on the European Constitution in 2005, that on the Treaty between the European Union and Ukraine in 2016 and that on the Intelligence Act, also known as the Drag Act, in 2018. The nature of the first differed from that of the last two, which were advisory. And we all know how things turned out. The now outgoing cabinet, with this minister, did not know how quickly it had to carry the Act of Consultative referendum to the grave, yet strikingly for a minister of D66. The proposal for a binding corrective legislative referendum also threatened to disappear in the trash, but fortunately Mr Van Raak took the initiative to make a proposal for this, for which he thanked. It is a proposal to amend the Constitution, which is necessary in the event of a binding referendum. Mr Van Raak can support the opinion of the State Committee on Parliamentary System chaired by Mr Remkes, of which I myself was also allowed to be a member, which had published its final report in December 2018. It advocates, inter alia, the introduction of a corrective legislative reference. The State Committee placed this opinion in the broader context of the relationship between citizen and driver. I quote the state committee in its final report: "The binding corrective referendum is a remedy against a poor representation of the population and a correction of parliamentary decision-making that is not supported by the majority of the population. The State Committee sees the binding corrective referendum in this sense as an addition to representative democracy and as an important contribution to the future stability of the parliamentary system." However, the State Committee stated that this had to be done under conditions: strict conditions for initiating a referendum from the people, declaring certain subjects unreferendable and strict conditions for declaring a result valid. Moreover, the binding nature of the proposed referendum precludes any discussion on how to interpret the outcome of a referendum. The bill voted on remains intact or lapses. The initiator took over this bill from the state committee, which our party was very pleased with, also with the reasoning. In the explanatory statement, the initiator, like the State Commission, writes: "Especially in the case of citizens who experience a great distance from politics, the binding corrective referendum (...) can be an important tool to ensure involvement in the political system. The referendum involves a wider section of the population in the decision-making process." The corrective referendum can thus contribute to increasing confidence in the democratic system. Our group is less pleased with the outcome of the parliamentary debate in the House of Representatives, in particular, it has been mentioned on many occasions with the amendment adopted to include a very high threshold of outcome in the proposal for amendments to the Constitution. A corrective referendum will only be a successful instrument if the outcome threshold is achievable. However, without that being based on any socio-scientific research, the bill included a threshold of outcome of the majority of the votes cast in the most recently held Lower House elections. The Council of State, too, I am sorry to have to say,.... had not mentioned any scientific behavioral argument for its claim that such a threshold would be appropriate. The turnout for the 2017 Dutch Parliamentary Elections was 81.6%. On this basis, the outcome threshold would thus have been almost 41% according to the present legislative proposal. Mind you, not a turnout threshold, but an outcome threshold. The State Committee recommended 33.3%, which according to scientific studies was the maximum limit of what is still a feasible threshold. Mr. Chairman. The experts consulted by the First Chamber on this issue are unisono of the opinion that the 40% threshold is therefore not a turnout threshold, but the required percentage of counter-voters............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of research, they note that the international standard for an outcome threshold is 30% with a lower limit of 25% for the desired representativeness. In their view, therefore, the 33% of the State Commission is indeed the upper limit. In our written questions we asked the initiator to elaborate on the arguments of the three experts. But he didn't. That is why we are asking him to do this again today. How does the initiator assess the unanimous criticism of the experts that the present outcome threshold is unrealistic? The question whether he considers that an outcome threshold should be feasible was also not answered. The State Committee stated in its report on page 153: "The lightly organising of a referendum can never be the intention, but it must be feasible." It therefore chose the maximum limit of 33%. Therefore again the question: does the initiator consider that a threshold of outcome should be feasible? If so, on the basis of what research does he consider a threshold of 40%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u197	Mr Koole and I agree that this threshold of outcome should not have been included in the Constitution and that its level is also extremely high. The initiator agrees. However, it goes a little too far for me to say that there is nothing underneath that decision that the House of Representatives has taken by amendment, which was not wanted by the initiator but has been adopted. Firstly, a majority of the House of Representatives, secondly, the approval of the Council of State and thirdly, the agreement of the Minister of the Interior. If you have the majority of the House of Representatives, the Council of State and the Minister, and you have three experts, then it goes too far for me to say that the three experts must by definition have the upper hand and that the knowledge at those three other levels obviously falls away from the knowledge of the three experts we have consulted here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u198	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u199	We agree on the essentials, but it goes too far to point the finger at the initiator and the minister and say that they have done something that cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u200	I didn't say there was nothing underneath. I said that there is no behavioral argument underneath it. Neither the author of the amendment nor the Council of State has cited any behavioural scientific arguments. This is about the turnout at elections and/or referendums. A lot of international research is being done on this. There's a certain skill. We later asked the experts about this. Such arguments were not used in the argumentation. Of course, politics decides, but hopefully the political decision will also be seen in corona on the basis of available, relevant scientific information. Behavioural and socio-scientific information is important for this subject. That has been ignored, and I said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u201	I'm not arguing that that information is important. I'm always very much in favour of getting your knowledge out of practice and not just thinking about everything in your head. But here the Council of State, the Minister of the Interior and the majority of the House of Representatives have said that we believe that this must be done in the light of everything. The question remains... This is an important point and we would like to get it out. I will come up with a number of suggestions in the second term, if you do not do them already. But the question remains, if Mr Koole refers to Troelstra who already made this proposal in 1910 and his party already in 1895...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u202	I did that to do you a favor!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u203	We can now for the first time include the term 'binding corrective referendum' in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u204	And what is your question, Mr. Kox?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u205	Is the Labour Party prepared to throw away that unique opportunity because it does not get what it, like my group, would want on a section, a heavy part?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u206	As a fraction of the Labour Party, we want a good bill. If there is any information to doubt it, we must take that information seriously. Then it is not about what the Minister found and what the House of Representatives said. If that's what you're saying, but I know that's what you want, too. We may reconsider here, even though I respect the positions adopted. But if, on the basis of new information, which we involve in the review, there is another outcome, then of course it must be possible. That's how it's governed by state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u207	I propose that Mr Koole continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u208	Mr President, just this: of course we must reflect and of course we have our own position, but I responded to Mr Koole's statement that it would not be substantiated if the Council of State, the Minister of the Interior and the majority of the House of Representatives had established something, and that we should only look at what the experts say. That went too far for me, but we agree on that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u209	No, I repeat, I did not say that it would not be substantiated in any way, but the behavioral scientific argument, which is essential for this subject, is missing once and for all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u210	I have one short question. Of course, we have all read with interest those scientific opinions, but where does Mr Koole read that under no circumstances... Mr Van Hattem has mentioned, for example, the imaginable situation of a massive turnout. Where does Mr Koole read that, with the outcome threshold in the draft law, there is under no circumstances the possibility that it would succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u211	I come to that in a moment, but I can say now that only if the threshold proposed now would always be combined with the Lower House elections, there is a reasonable chance that it might be reached. But that is not the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u212	But you'll get to that, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u213	Yeah, I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u214	Will we then allow Mr Koole to finish his speech first? Mr. Nicolaï?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u215	Well, my question was where Mr Koole read that in the opinions. But it's probably still being treated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u216	In my speech, I had stayed on the basis of which studies the initiator considered the 40% threshold to be feasible. That question wasn't answered at the time. The government answered the question, for which thanks, but the government's answer is not convincing. On the one hand, on the basis of Professor Van der Meer's paper, she says that of the international examples since 1995 in other Western countries with established democracies, only two out of the seventeen referenda have reached that threshold of 40%. Those are the examples from New Zealand that I have already made. These were referendums which were somewhat similar to the one proposed to at least make some comparison. On the other hand, however, I would like to say this in the direction of Mr Nicolaï, who replied to a specific question from my group: 'I am not aware of any practical examples of an optional, advisory, correctively binding referendum with a threshold of 40% or higher that was not held simultaneously with elections, which dealt with ordinary laws, and where the result was valid'. There is "no practical example known." In other words, what is proposed by this bill has not been successfully applied anywhere else. Can both the Minister and the initiator state with dry eyes that the proposed outcome threshold is feasible? Are all the experts wrong with their views? Mr. Chairman. The amendment with this unfeasible entry threshold has ruined a beautiful referendum proposal in itself. My group deeply regrets this, especially since the proposal, as it stands at present, achieves precisely the opposite of one of the aims of the original proposal, namely to increase the involvement of citizens in the political system. Also expert Jacobs warns about this in his paper. If the referendum is declared invalid in each case because it fails to reach a far too high outcome threshold, it undermines the confidence of citizens in politics. A simple calculation example can clarify that. Suppose, in recent years, this bill would have led to a referendum with a very high turnout of 70% of voters for a referendum that is not equal to other elections. That is much higher than in the elections for the Provincial States, to which we owe our seats, and much higher than in the European or Council elections. Let's say 70% comes up and 56% vote against and 44% vote against. That is a clear result, but that result would still be declared invalid, because the 56% opposed voters together account for 39% of the number that emerged in the previous Lower House elections. The 41% required would not have been achieved, so the result of the referendum will be declared invalid. What do you think that does to voters, I ask the initiator and also the Minister? My group fears that the electorate would see this referendum instrument as an impenetrable hurdle, as a pacifier. What's with the invisible horde? Does this not also show great distrust of the citizens, of which we hear so often in other contexts these weeks? That is what I meant by the meta-level interfaces that this bill has with the child care allowance affair, which I spoke about at the beginning of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u217	Mr Koole of the PvdA is constantly talking about an "invisible horde" and a "speech" for the citizens. But at the moment they have no possibility and there is not even a horde to jump over. Knowing that this horde is there, would it not be better for citizens to be given the opportunity to jump over that horde if such a referendum is initiated? In the previous consultative referendum, there was also a very high threshold for the submission of signatures. With practical solutions, it turned out that at some point it was possible to simply digitally instead of just writing the horde, that horde could still be taken. The EU referendum in 2005 almost reached 40%. If citizens know that there is such a possibility, this additional effort can be made again to achieve it, which will allow an effective referendum, rather than being empty-handed, as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u218	Mr Van Hattem talks about giving citizens the opportunity to do so, but that is precisely why we have asked the experts how that is going in other countries and whether that is a real option. They all say: that is not a real option. If you imagine it then, you're actually suggesting something that's just a recipe for disappointment. Then the distrust of the population will increase. The PVV does not want that either, I ask Mr Van Hattem. Then let's talk about the process I've been talking about before. If you let it go now, this is what's gonna happen. Either there will be no referenda, because one does not like it, or they will continue, with a high turnout, as in the example, but will be declared invalid. If you want to fix that, you'll be six or seven years ahead and you'll have to start a new constitutional process. Then these citizens, which you are so defending and which we are defending, may not have a real referendum until 10 or 12 years from now. Then you'd better make another proposal right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u219	A brief closing question, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u220	If we take it back now, they have nothing at all at the moment and then it all depends on what is going to happen in a subsequent cabinet period and then everything is still going to go down anyway. You can also say that we are going to use repair legislation to make it possible and thus give citizens an instrument in their hands. That is entirely lacking if your proposal is continued in this way. In addition, if we did not do this at the moment, it would be quiet. Then we'll just have to wait and see what happens in the House of Representatives. And then what? Can we expect the PvdA to come up with proposals in the area of consultative or consultative referendums as a complement to offer opportunities to do so in addition to the remedially binding referendum...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u221	Your question is clear. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u222	...to give the citizens a chance to speak out, right? 'Cause if you don't, you don't have anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u223	Mr Koole, I would like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u224	I hear Mr Van Hattem say: repair legislation. I can tell you that he would also like to consider the possibility of a novelle to repair this part of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u225	A final remark, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u226	Words are now being put in my mouth. I would like to co-operate, but if this has to be repaired at this time for the forthcoming Lower House elections, it is virtually unfeasible on the one hand, and on the other hand there is no majority in the present House of Representatives to make that repair possible. So we'll end up standing here empty-handed. If we let this bill go through and after the elections see if we can come up with a new proposal for a constitutional change, then we can look at that. But that's different than coming up with a novelle right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u227	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mr. Koole, I suggest you continue your argument. I suggest that you complete it before we allow any other interruptions and then we see what time it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u228	I would say, also responding to this: better a good bill later than a bad bill at the moment. Therefore, once again my group's question to the initiator to take back the bill and to ensure that a new proposal that destructive and ill-thought-out amendment has been taken out of it. We asked that question earlier in December in the written round of questions. The complainant's reply was that he did not want to commit a novelle, because otherwise he would end up in a chase-patate "it was mentioned earlier" between the First and Second Chambers. However, that answer is not convincing. The question is to take the proposal back, so that I have previously pointed out that also the Lower House can consider the insights of the three experts and any other experts in a new assessment. That won't work anymore for the upcoming Lower House elections, but better at a late stage I'll repeat myself a good referendum proposal than go along with a bad proposal now. Mr. Chairman. The First Chamber is the Chamber of reflection and review, a Chamber that should look after the execution in practice. In our view, this is a proposal that would create an instrument that is not feasible in practice. It is also an instrument which is very likely to have effects which are contrary to the good intentions of the proposal. Finally, it is an instrument which, because of this far too high threshold of outcome, shows great distrust in the citizens of that country. Take back the proposal, I ask the initiator, who himself cannot be happy with the inclusion of an unfeasible threshold in the legislative proposal. The initiator doesn't want his political legacy to be known as a pacifier, does he? Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group would very much like a binding corrective referendum, but without that much too high threshold. Apart from the level of that threshold, we have some other questions about this bill. I ask the Minister whether it would not have been much more logical, given the system of ground law, to place the general standard in the Constitution and its concrete impact in the ordinary referendum law. Take the example of the electoral system. The Constitution contains the principle of proportionality, the impact of which is set out in the Election Act. This means, for example, that adjustments to the electoral system are possible without amending the Constitution as long as proportionality remains intact. The government has embraced the idea of increasing the workings of the preferred votes according to the ideas of the Civil Society Forum and later the State Parliamentary System Committee is an example of this. In response to written questions, the government is also talking about the variant that the Constitution does specify the level of the threshold, but that the ordinary legislator is allowed to change within certain margins. Do we understand the Minister's view that this variant is acceptable in principle, but do we expect no political agreement to be reached on this at the moment? Another, perhaps more political-philosophical question I would like to ask both the Minister and the initiator. That is the question of why and the desirability of excluding laws aimed at the adoption of international conventions. This is also included in the legislative proposal by amendment. The argument was mainly practical in nature: it takes time and effort to establish treaties and then the possibility of a referendum would make the signature of the Netherlands under the treaty inherently uncertain. In the case of hybrid treaties, I can imagine, but in the case of non-hybrid treaties, where some of the sovereignty would be transferred, the possibility of a referendum is, in my group's view, a matter of principle. Mrs Baay-Timmerman recalled that this morning. After all, transfer of sovereignty means that the Dutch electorate loses their power to influence the relevant policy area through parliament and government. Is it not reasonable that they should be able to express their opinion on this matter? I'd like a reflection from both the initiator and the minister. Finally, Mr President. The PvdA Group has been looking forward to the coming of this bill to this Chamber. We would have liked to have given our vote to the original legislative proposal of the initiator. However, our group believes that the referendum has been defeated. The far too high threshold makes the referendum in fact impossible, shows distrust of the citizens and has thus become a recipe for disappointments. An improvement in the referendum law is needed. We therefore look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u229	Thank you, Mr Koole. Then I give the floor to Mr Meijer on behalf of the VVD Group. No, Mr Verkerk has another interruption on Mr Koole. Short, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u230	I have another question for Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u231	You may speak without a mouth cap.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u232	Of course! I forgot for a second. You always talk to us so harshly, and then you just forget about it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u233	That's not my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u234	I had a question for Mr Koole. The Labour Party is known to fight for the rights of minorities. In my contribution, I said that an undesirable side effect of the corrective referendum could be that legislation that safeguards the rights and interests of minorities is voted down in a corrective referendum. I would like to ask Mr Koole, precisely in view of the whole of social developments, in which disinformation and increasing contradictions emerge and in which there is less sensitivity for people with a different vision: does he consider this to be a real side effect of the corrective referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u235	Mr. Koole. I'd like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u236	I think the odds are very small, but I find the question very interesting. Respect for minorities must of course always be guaranteed. That's what our Constitution is for. We are also bound by international treaties. Legislation in this Chamber should also be kept under constant review to ensure that minorities are respected. Nor has it been proposed in the State Commission that a constitutional court should be set up for nothing. This set-up adequately guarantees the rights of minorities. Mr Verkerk therefore has nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u238	I wouldn't want to worry either. Only, until now, I have not received a positive signal that the cabinet wants to come up with a constitutional court. However, the cabinet has undertaken to carry out analyses of the situation abroad. But then we'll be so many years later, if it ever gets there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u239	I'm gonna ask you to finish now. I would like to give the floor to Mr Meijer on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u240	Mr. Chairman. When I was elected a year and a half ago as a member of the First Chamber, many in my immediate vicinity asked the question: will there be another night of Meijer? Closer than I am now, I don't think I'll be able to get to it. At least it's the right subject. I have read it again in the recent, very readable biography of Pieter Sijppenma about Hans Wiegel. On 18 May 1998, the First Chamber debated the corrective referendum. In that night, the final vote was 49-26. The required two-thirds majority was not reached. And what's the matter with you? Today, I was also able to make a contribution to the proposal that the second reading of a constitutional amendment should now be dealt with at a united meeting in order to avoid that required two-thirds majority. More about that soon. Mr. Chairman. That night from 1998 mainly stayed with us because Wiegel kept everyone in suspense all day. I miss Wiegel's theatrical gift to keep it up for so long. Moreover, the discussion in the House of Representatives, the discussion in our party on this issue in the preparation of the recent electoral programme and our contribution to the written preparation of this debate will have made it clear that the VVD Group will vote against the initiative proposal. Nevertheless, we appreciate the applicant's willingness to respond to our arguments. Because even if we don't agree on the means, we think, I suspect, to a large extent, the same thing about the underlying problem of the substantive representation that needs to be improved. Failure to do so could ultimately undermine the democratic rule of law. Any constructive discussion on this can therefore help us further. Moreover, the VVD believes that a change in political culture can often be more significant than a change in structure as is currently the case. Like colleagues, I, too, naturally congratulate the author and his staff on all the energy they have put into this initiative proposal. It will not have escaped him in the written preparation that we did not always agree on the quality and depth of the reply. Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I will briefly address four issues: the social discontent, the analysis of the author, which then leads to this proposal, the updating of the proposed means, and the appreciation of the amended proposal. First, the social discontent. The VVD Group also recognizes it. Among other things, as described in the report of the State Committee, this is about the fact that low-skilled people, low-income people and people from more peripheral areas feel less represented. The same applies to people who are not members of a political party. Moreover, this discontent has wider, deeper causes than a failing parliamentary system. Improvements to that system, for example through electoral reforms, strengthening digital citizenship and promoting citizen forums, will in principle be considered positively by our group. For some, the underlying proposal is also part of these improvements. They will have to acknowledge that, even if that is accepted, investment will have to continue to be made to address this discontent. Then the applicant's analysis. That is at the heart of my speech. The members of the VVD Group are based on a consensus democracy. A representative of the people may act on the basis of his or her mandate on the basis of what he or she considers necessary in the general interest and may negotiate and compromise. This gives minority views and interests a place in our representative system. The Ostrogorski paradox, which has already been mentioned several times, whereby agreements can be made in parliament and decisions can be made for which there is no majority among the population, is central to the argument of both the state committee and the petitioner. I think that in our reasoning as a VVD group and as a state committee and as a petitioner we are breaking up. That approach is too quantitative for us. This approach is based on a majority democracy. The beauty of a political-administrative process is that things can be weighed. You also give others a point, although it is a minority view because it is less important for you, for example. In addition, not only today's voters play a role and sometimes make a decision that is important not so much for today's voters as for future generations. For the VVD Group, it would be an impoverishment to correct these kinds of considerations by means of a referendum. In the note following the report, the author has a bit of reasoning along this point. We are not only concerned, as he himself points out, with the violation of the protection of minorities, but perhaps even more with the fact that there are parts of legislation that may only be relevant to a minority. In a referendum such legislation could perish, where for us the quality of democracy can be measured in part by the extent to which the majority takes account of the minority. Mr Verkerk has already made an explicit reference to this. I would like to hear a response from the author on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u241	A question to Mr Meijer: why should voters in a corrective legislative referendum not be able to strike a good balance between the pros and cons, in order to vote? Why so distrustful of the electorate's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u242	At that time, I think that the electorate is primarily looking at its own interests and less at the coherence with other interests, such as what can be of interest to minorities and what can be of interest to future generations. We believe that, in parliamentary democracy, representatives of the people have been elected to make that broader assessment. Some individual citizens will, but not all of them will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u243	But doesn't that really depend on the specific subject being debated in the context of such a campaign on a corrective legislative reference?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u244	On one subject, this will be more true than on the other, but now we are talking about the general instrument and not about a specific subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u245	You would expect the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy to have a little more confidence in the people in advance, but that aside. I have already recalled in my speech that our early political ancestors were strongly in favour of a binding referendum. But in the last decade of the last century, the vast majority of the VVD, including in this house, was in favour of the referendum. We remember Hans Wiegel, but the vast majority of the VVD Group voted in favour. What happened after that night of '99, which made the VVD, after a long period of support for a referendum, such a harnessed opponent of the referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u246	Mr. Kox began by saying that the VVD has no confidence in citizens. I don't remember what he said exactly. I have said that citizens are probably defending their own interests. Maybe I would. But the people's representatives look wider and perhaps more forward-looking. What happened to the VVD? Well, everything, but at this point was also relevant that there was a Purple II with a coalition agreement to which the VVD at least felt attached in the House of Representatives. The discussion was mainly about whether one felt bound to it in the First Chamber. So that is not so much about a development of thought. But we have also had regular discussions on the subject of referendum. I think at the beginning of this century it was a bit different than it is now. I am aware of the current situation, because the issue has been raised in the drafting of the electoral programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u247	I am concerned with removing the misunderstanding that the VVD in this Chamber was against the referendum. The VVD was except one member before the 1999 referendum. That is the reality. I think it is my right to ask: what has happened in the last two decades which has changed that opinion? That's relevant, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u248	I think I answered that, too. During that period there was also a Purple II and a coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u249	Now you're going to repeat the questions and answers. Unfortunately, we do not have time for that. Mr Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u250	But does Mr Meijer say here that we all voted in favour, except for Hans Wiegel, but we were actually against it at the time? That would certainly be a new communication, because there were very good reports made by our Service Report and Editorial on what the VVD was all about at the time about why the referendum was good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u251	I wasn't as close to it as you were back then. No, you weren't in it then. But in our party, there was indeed discussion at that time about the referendum, for example, as was the case at that time about the elected mayor. At the end of last century, at the beginning of this century was a rather noisy period and that is now crystallized in positions as I now put them here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u252	I have another question to ask Mr Meijer about the reasoning that, in a referendum, voters would vote mainly in their own interests. We have had a number of referendums in the Netherlands in recent history, for example on the EU Constitution and the Ukraine referendum. When we look at this proposal, we see that matters such as tax legislation are excluded. You can't vote directly for your own wallet. Can the VVD explain once again what examples it sees of citizens voting for their own interests and that would be detrimental?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u253	Mr. Meijer, please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u254	I am talking about self-interest or just being focused on that point, when here, on the other side or in a government, we weigh up a multitude of issues, make decisions about them, compromise them, sometimes make decisions that may be less for the present generation, but are better for future generations. Think about pensions or whatever. That balance is flattened if you put it in a referendum choice. That is what I am trying to argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u255	Mr. Van der Linden, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u256	But isn't it true that all these interests together are well weighed if you include the total of all the people who are going to vote in the outcome, which is the case in a referendum? An older person might vote differently than a younger person. The outcome is ultimately the result of the overall balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u257	I think that's a little rougher and a little less balanced than you think. That is why we have great hesitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u258	I propose that Mr Meijer conclude his speech first, given the time and the subsequent meeting of the College of Seniors. Then we'll see if there's time for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u259	Mr. Chairman. One point I would also like to make is that we are dealing with very fragmented proposals. I mentioned that twice before when we were talking in this house about the report of the state committee. Just came by for the constitutional review. The question about the return right also plays. I regret that we are now considering this possibility of scrutiny, this possibility of correction of the referendum, apart from other possibilities, because you are going to stack things up at some point. Unfortunately, that balance is missing. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the side effects. I have previously argued that social discontent will not be resolved by an occasional referendum. The author calls it an "ultimum remedium." The question is whether it can also exacerbate the discontent, for example by bringing up populist groups with the subject, thereby only increasing the contradictions that could be solved with it. The fact that the high turnout threshold will often not lead to a rejection of the bill does not, of course, reduce the problem. Others have pointed this out. We do not think that the author has really addressed this point in the written preparation. It is hardly mentioned in the report of the State Committee either. A referendum procedure creates a dynamic in society. The author says that we should settle this in implementing legislation when it comes to disinformation and the like. I think Mr Nicolaï has just pointed out in detail where all this can lead. On the issue of disinformation, I also had an exchange of views with the Minister when dealing with the Temporary Law measures covid-19. I think it is a point which deserves attention at a time of principle. Then you can say that it is in every election, but especially if it is focused on one subject, it is more likely that there is disinformation and that people are getting along with it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the appreciation of the final proposal after amendment and the position of the author. Mr Van Raak makes himself very small when he writes: "In response to the opinion of the State Committee, the author has taken on an initiative proposal from GroenLinks, D66 and the Labour Party." It's almost like it's a neutral role. I would like to ask him for his personal appreciation of the end result. Let me say that the VVD Group considers all amendments by the House of Representatives to be improvements. This brings us closer to the system of representative democracy. We do not see the fundamental objections to this either, but the change that has been drawing attention all morning, the threshold of outcome, is, of course, very important. Several experts and various senators say that this threshold is too high to allow the instrument referendum to work properly. My question to the author is: would there have been a lower limit to the amendments for him, or is the symbolic fact that there is a proposal more important than the content of the proposal? It was already called a pacifier. I am very curious to see what my fellow Members finally think of the fact that the petitioner has indicated that the way to change this through a novel is unstoppable. Mr. Chairman. I await with interest the reactions of the petitioner and the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u260	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. I'll see if there's any more interruptions. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-19-eerstekamer-3.u261	Then I'll suspend the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
