ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u1	The next item is the continuation of the joint examination of legislative proposals 35042, amendment of the Media Act 2008 to strengthen the new services procedure, modernisation of procedures for the appointment of supervisory and administrative boards, modernisation of governance and clarification of the position of the Star, as well as technical improvements, inter alia, in relation to tasks of the Media Commissioner, and 35453, amendment of the proposal for a law amending the Media Act 2008 in relation to tightening up the new service procedure, modernisation of procedures for the appointment of supervisory and administrative boards, modernisation of governance and clarification of the position of the Star, as well as technical improvements, inter alia, in relation to tasks of the Media Commissioner. We need the government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Through you, I would also like to thank the honourable Members who contributed in the first term. I shall, of course, answer the questions raised by them in this directive. I know the feelings of this house about various laws. I think this is the second variety law you have achieved from my portfolio over the last three years. I think the message is clear. I would like to make a few preliminary remarks on this varia law. A large part of what you find in this variety law is a reflection of debates that have taken place in the First Chamber with my predecessor in office, including a modification of the Media Act. At that time, it seemed as if politics was very close to naming people, so that perhaps, perhaps, perhaps not even meant, borders could fade away in terms of the influence that politics might have on the content, for example on programming. At that time, that message was very profound expressed by many in this Chamber. I followed it at a distance back then, but then, of course, I read through the debates in my new responsibility. That message has arrived, too. This has led to steps being taken, if there were even the appearance of border blurring, to remove the appearance of legislation and regulation. I will come back to some of them separately when I answer the single question on the impact of this. It was discussed this morning about the great importance of the First Chamber. This is perhaps an example of that. It will eventually come back to you in the form of laws and regulations that you have asked for. The second point is that this law has come a long way. A few have outlined this path, with the time when the law has been tabled, the novelle that has come and now finally the treatment. In part, the long way of this law has to do with the corona time, but that's only a small part of the answer. The novelle you have asked for, which you have received, has indeed once again made clear the importance of the First Chamber, also to be very strict on constitutional aspects that may be attached to legislation and certainly to the consequences of amendment from the House of Representatives. I understand very well the question that has also been asked in my direction: how can it be that this amendment has finally been given Chamber judgement? I can make a very big story of it, but let me try to keep it short. There was an enormous dynamism at the time that this amendment was tabled, because a political party had announced that it wanted to be a broadcaster. That touched on the aspect that was once discussed here. Politics, on the one hand, and broadcasting and programmes, on the other, must remain at a distance from each other. That led to an amendment. That amendment was so intense and so broad that there has been a great deal of debate about it, not only in the plenary, but above all outside. This ultimately led to an amendment that was really weakened in relation to what was first, but was still far-reaching. There seemed to be broad support for that. That has also been demonstrated by the vote. In the end, that has led to the judgment that we thought it could be so. We've been asked to reflect on that. Looking back, I realize that it should not have happened this way. That is why I am also pleased with our order, in which a much sharper analysis has finally been carried out from this Chamber, also on the basis of requested advice. It has led to this novel. Mr. Chairman. The third thing I want to say about is the safety of journalists. Although it does not directly affect the current legislation, it is right that a number of Members have drawn attention to it, partly because of the current situation in recent weeks. From the very beginning that I was faced with this in my responsibility, I have been very clear about this: not acceptable. It's such an incredibly great thing for a country to have an independent press. He must be able to continue to do his job independently, even in difficult situations. It is astonishing that the situations of the last few months, and quite recently, can occur in this way in our country. We never expected that, but it will. We must indeed be very clear about this with each other, as a political but also as a society: this is not acceptable. Know that the agreements made, which I talked to you about in December, actually work, in the sense that there are very good, close links on this subject. Those links are with the wider world of the media, including the written press, which also has to do with this, the regional media, which also has to do with this, and our national media, where the NIS in particular is often in the picture, but it is really wider. There are good contacts. The agreements made on press security also work. It remains important to say every time something happens: report it. There is no doubt about that. If people find it difficult, they need to be supported. We're gonna have to keep doing that. Yesterday I had a discussion with the large, broad media sector, including the commercial media. We have also talked about this. People are pleased with the agreements we have. We do not see any immediate reason to add any new ones, other than the one I have promised here, including in the direction of Mr Pijlman, we are still working on an even wider investigation and looking specifically at the position ofzzp'ers. Let us really be very clear with each other: there should not be a dash of light in any direction; we do not want this, this is not acceptable and action is taken when we see that it does happen. Our police force and the Public Prosecutor's Office have also acted in this way; of course it went wider than the media. I have a lot of respect for how they did that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the appointment procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u4	I'm going back to the previous point. I should like to pay tribute to the last point. We agree on that. The point before that was about how the amendment could have been judged by the Chamber. The Minister says: looking back it should not have happened, because there was dynamism. I think that is a little short, because it is what has been learned for me. We live in times when we have and get more dynamics. My question was very specific: is there at that time enough technical aspects in support and preparation, or is there only political thought? That's what worries me. My question to the Minister is: what has been learned from this to ensure that we avoid this sort of thing in the future, because much more dynamic is coming to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u5	There was really a lot of thought back then about the question: how do we keep politics and the media apart? That was the issue on the table. This was the same question, I admit that it was in a very different form from what was on the table at the time and where stricter laws and regulations were laid down. We also realized that it listened very closely when it came to the demarcations. That was mostly the discussion at the time. You know that there is already a limitation for members of the First and Second Chambers when it comes to boards of supervision of NPO, NOS and NTR. We've already established that with each other. Here it has been checked to see if this can take place a little bit wider. In particular, the aim was to prevent, for example, members of parliament from taking part in the management of a broadcasting organisation. In this way, therefore, there has been a widening of the scope. In that consideration, the weighting was that the amendment could be put forward. That was not the first amendment, because it has been amended. With the current experiences... Thank you again in the direction of your Chamber when it comes to asking for an opinion from the Supervisory Board. Another amendment was sent there, but there was a difference of opinion, as you know. We have said to each other internally: if these kinds of moments occur again, then we really need to take more time. Then we should not get carried away in a huge dynamic with time pressure and I know what, because this is closely listening. You take this kind of judgment with some shame to you, the moment you read it. We should have just prevented this. I can say more about it, but this is the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u6	For the Acts: I think you mean information from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u7	Sorry, yes, Council of State. I don't know what I said, but that's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u8	Thank you for the long answer, but my question is very specific. My question is not so much about the content of the document, but rather about the process. In terms of process, it was shocking to me that an amendment which is so contrary to fundamental rights and the ECHR could still be judged as Chambers. The Minister says that we have been too political and we should have looked at it more technically than just politics. That was my question, too. If that is what has been learned and the Minister also indicates it, then I can be satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u9	I think I have nothing more to add to what I said about this. Then I come to the new service procedure. There was also a history attached to that. Some have referred to it. From the point of view of D66, it was asked: "What about our new service procedure? Okay, we have received an approval from Europe, but it is not always quite clear, not even for those involved, how that procedure works. Does everyone do so in the surrounding countries or do we have our own way of dealing with it?" During a previous cabinet period a bit was spoken in that atmosphere. Then my predecessor said: I am going to have such a comparison made. That comparison was made by Dialogic. They have devoted to this a solid report which has become public. I don't know if it was sent to you at the time. I do know that it has not been discussed here, but that it has been discussed quite extensively in the House of Representatives. We'll talk about 2016. It has been discussed in the course of a budget debate. The outcome of the debate was that the then ruler was given a kind of mandate to translate it into legislation. The main reason for this was the following. The moment we put it better and more accurately into the law, that is simply clearer, unambiguous. This clarity was lacking, at least in the case of some of the people involved in this in practice. There was also a finding that views could only be expressed at a very late stage. The wish was that at an earlier stage there would be room to share those views. Those who would then have to give their judgements would then be able to take note of them and could involve them in their final advice. At least they were the Media and Culture Commission, as you know. Mrs. Adriaansen asked... Excuse me, the honourable Member of the VVD asked whether that should not be'should'. Looking at the independence of these advisory bodies, we have deliberately said "can." In the end, it is up to them what they do with such advice, but they must take note of it. They can then involve that. Once again, we cannot impose this on them because they must be able to give their opinions independently. We cannot determine what they should or should not be involved in this. It goes without saying, however, that at the moment it is there in time and it is clear that it will undoubtedly be part of the balance. One will let one's eyes go over it. The ACM has been asked to provide the market analysis. Before the ACM was officially requested, market analyses and market effects were already carried out. Sometimes the Commissariat did. Sometimes the NPO did the same. If you are talking about independent advice, it may not coincide entirely with that definition. It is not in itself a wrong idea to ask the ACM for that. The ACM is an excellent body for analysis. We've asked, and it's now laid down in the law. If it is a legal task, then that task does not fall under the pile. We will then have to give substance to this. Then it also matters in time when it is a little more noncommittal and not in a law. We think the ACM is very suitable for making such analyses. They will make these at the same time as the assessments that the Commissioner and the Culture Council will give. That's gonna happen right away. This should not lead to a waste of time, because they will be working on it at the same time as these opinions are given. In the end, the advice will be with the person responsible, who will then have to take a decision. It was asked whether that decision could still be appealed against. Yes, indeed, there is always an appeal to the administrative judge. That road is always open. Moreover, I am convinced that by putting forward the views it might be of interest at the end. They have already been heard. Now one can only move when there is a draft decision. I am convinced that if you do that earlier and if views are taken into account, that will really matter in the tail of the trajectory, if there is another possibility to reflect on it. Time will tell. The question of the six months is justified, looking at how much time has been taken up by what has happened in recent years. The law is quite clear that you simply have to make it six months. In any case, this has not been achieved in the examples we have at national level. That's right. In my opinion, in December, I said this in your direction about two examples, namely NPO Knowledge and NPO Soul & Jazz. The last one was the worst, by the way. It lasted two years in terms of treatment, not in terms of content. NPO Knowledge lasted a year. I also told you in December that we have another example, namely a regional supply channel of L1 with the relevant title Alaaf. Then you know a little bit at what time of year that will probably be viewed a lot, although it may be disappointing in the next week. It's just been completed and completed in six months. It goes without saying that everything is intended to complete this within those six months, even if we clarify these matters now in the law, which is not meant to slow down, but to clarify, to be clear. Sees can be taken at the beginning, which can help at the end. That's what we're gonna follow. It goes without saying that we are going to follow that. We're monitoring this. We will also do so more broadly, because we also want to take a broader look at how the adapted procedure as a whole works. But that's how we proposed it and that's how the House of Representatives finally supported it. I would like to say a few words about experiments and then I think I have dealt with the questions on this point. Experiments can always be used, but in experiments it is always intended that they have a very limited scope or a limited duration to investigate whether a new channel of supply could contribute to the achievement of what we then call "the public media mission." It is not that it can now automatically be applied by everyone in the sense of: then you can start and then you will see how it ends. You must really try to think of that as an experiment. But that possibility is still open. That can go to an application in one go. Then they don't have to put the screen on black for a second. It can just keep going. It is true that this possibility is still fully present.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u10	I hear the Minister saying that one application procedure has been completed in six months. That was a request from a regional broadcaster. That's where the ACM test wasn't made mandatory. That's where it can be applied for, but it doesn't have to be. Of course, that makes quite a difference. My question to the Minister would therefore be: do you expect this test to be completed within six months? That's one side of the question. The other side is: why was the procedure for the national broadcasters not also said that it is possible, but not necessarily necessary? Then it can be weighed over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u11	We have thought about that, but we consciously made the cut that it would only apply to the new applications. There have also been questions in the Lower House about whether all existing channels of supply should not go through this procedure again. No, only the new services that are offered, without distinction, will we go through the procedure in this way. I have just indicated that the test of the ACM is running in the same way as what was already common in the past with the Culture Council and the Commissioner. There is therefore no need to waste time. Because we make it a legal task for the ACM, applications do not come under the pile, because one simply has legal tasks that one simply needs to fill in. I just gave that to you visually. Moreover, there are often many other things that are, of course, lower in the priorities. In this way, we also spoke with the ACM. A legal task means that it must therefore be treated in this way and not be placed at the bottom of a pile. Of the two examples we have at national level, I know that they did not have the highest priority in our home either; I say it very openly. There are, therefore, other explanations than the fact that it had to go through a procedure and all that took so long then. I hope that this will remain the exceptions and that Alaaf will simply be the situation for the future. Of course, we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u12	I hear the Minister say that the experimental clause does indeed allow you to start and then apply, so that you do not have to go black. That makes the importance of a rapid procedure even greater in my view, because the longer that procedure takes, the longer that experiment will take and the less logical it is that it can continue under the heading of 'experiment'. I also hear the Minister say that he is going to monitor the deadlines or lead times that are being used. Are you also prepared to inform the Chamber about this? Because I think it is important that we keep an eye on that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u13	I'm sure I'm willing to do that. Yeah, that's what we've been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u14	I actually have two questions. Do I understand from the Minister's answer that this clarification, this tightening, is not necessary according to the European Commission? Because I understand from the law and the explanatory statement that we are again clarifying something here, which I fear will lead to some bureaucracy. We're aiming for six months now. The second question is what happens if these deadlines are not met. Is there a sanction on that? Does that mean, of course, that the service procedure has been completed and that they can continue? What's with the urge? A small third question is whether the Minister will add extra FTE to the ACM.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u15	As far as the first question is concerned, Mrs Vos is right: the current procedure has indeed been adopted by Europe. But that does not mean that the current procedure was also clear for the operation as experienced in our own country. That was precisely the discussion that was held with the House of Representatives a few years ago by the previous cabinet. Why, for example, are these views so late? Does it make any sense, in a manner of speaking, if there is any kind of draft decision? How is it that the NPO makes market analyses of its own? For that is a bit of a butcher who approves his own flesh, to put it in those terms. So there was really uncertainty about it. That was the reason why, on the basis of Dialogic's report, which was thoroughly discussed in the House of Representatives, these clarifications ended up in the law, not to make it last longer and to create bureaucracy. You also said "it seems" and, as you know, we can sometimes suffer the most from the suffering we fear. We believe that precisely this clarification also creates transparency and also efficiency in how it is to be implemented in practice. The ACM itself is about its staffing, how many people one needs and whether one can take on this task. Of course, there has been consultation with the ACM: can this task be done? They also have all the powers, including in the area of data collection, which one of you asked about. And yeah, they can do it, so we'll assume they're just doing it. If it turns out that things are going to be complicated in the near future, we will also look at what is needed in addition on the basis of this monitoring. That was also my commitment to Mrs Veldhoen, but that is not the expectation we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u16	In addition to the latter: "might turn out," that can still take quite a long time. I'm a little scared anyway. Suppose our fears become true and it all lasts much longer, is there still a sanction or an incentive or anything? A majority of this Chamber is concerned that the manoeuvrability of public service broadcasting remains good. If it turns out that things are slowing down, do we have to wait for another bill or can you just say: go ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u17	You also mentioned sanctions. If you think that sanctions should be applied, it seems as if you think that people are very consciously not doing what they are asked to do, because then you are sanctioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u18	That's not what I'm talking about. It could also be an incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u19	That's how it works all the time. With many parties involved, we also have those who are remote but who have an interest in what is happening here, to see if we can come up with a plan that did justice to those different interests. It should also be very clear, in order to ensure that we achieve this within the statutory deadlines, where we do indeed have a bad track record when it comes to those two examples. All the lights went green in the sense that it should be possible with these clarifications. I'd like to follow that in practice, if it were law later. Then it depends on where there may be a hiccup. Then I don't think against it, but that there may be some limitations. Then we can look very closely at what could be a solution to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u20	Finally. I'm actually trying to prevent a network from having to wait a year for such an application. That is a very specific question. You want to be able to react quickly, for example to changing media consumption, and then you have to wait a year before the deadline. How's the secretary gonna prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u21	So we don't want that. We want to lay down this clarified, transparent procedure, which has led to much more clarity, also in the law, because a number of things were not properly laid down in the law. Transparent also means: who is going about what? Again, the NPO may carry out a market analysis itself, but not to involve it in the weighing whether or not we do. That really needs to be done independently. That is what we have laid down very well in this law. Time limits shall remain the time limits. We'll see to that, too. We do not want to repeat the experiences we have now had twice, I have also been very clear about that. Part of it didn't even have to do with how it was arranged, but with not giving it so much priority. I fully agree with you that you must remain agile. If there are applications of this kind now, they must also go through this procedure quickly, so that you also have clarity quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u22	I'll start where the minister just ended up. He just said that Alaaf is going to be the norm. That is a very nice statement by a ruler of the Christian Union, so thank you. You said it wasn't just about the procedures, and I thought that was very fair. It was also a matter of priority in the Ministry. Has anything changed about that now? Of course, a lot is coming along, but we are all concerned with one thing: manoeuvrability of public service broadcasting. Then that must also be given priority in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u23	No doubt about how I stand in it. I am now responsible, but I assume that if there is a successor in the future, he will have the same commitment. It has the great advantage that the procedures are clear, if this becomes law eventually, and that the sharpness and priority are underlined, not only in the First Chamber, but in the Second Chamber the same has happened. This is a matter of great importance. Let us put that into practice. I talk to you about Catholics and the Christian Union outside this meeting. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions about the new service procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u24	Just a little more time to get it really sharp. You're saying it'll work in six months. You are committed to this and go for it. You also say: an experiment is possible and does not need to be black as long as that application is ongoing. But what if it takes longer and the ideal world doesn't become a reality? So suppose it takes a year, a year and a half or maybe two years. Can an experiment go on all this time? Otherwise, it might be capital destruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u25	I think I've just been clear about the space that still exists for experiments, but really briefly test the value of such an offer in practice. Such an experiment may also be extended to an application. The moment that application goes through, you don't have to stop experimenting. That, I think, is reassuring for those who use this route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u26	I note that this also applies if it lasts for two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u27	You just heard me very clearly. Alaaf is the norm and not two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u28	Just a quick check because the minister was done with the service procedure. Will the Minister be speaking separately about the questions I have asked about the ACM and whether the collection of data...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u29	I just answered that. They are fully capable of carrying out this task. Otherwise, we could never have given the ACM a legal anchor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u30	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u31	There was one more question from the VVD, whether situations could also be envisaged without market impact analysis. No, there aren't. It is a European obligation that a balance should be made in which market effects should also be tested against public value. In the past, that only happened a little shady. It also happened sometimes by different agencies. I think we have now provided some clarity in this matter. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the appointment procedures. I note that there is broad support in your Chamber for the proposals that lie ahead. Of course, I'm not surprised. I indicated at the beginning that these proposals were the result of an intensive debate with you. Mr Van Kesteren still asked why there was a change in terms of job profile and profile. That's pretty clear. The moment you talk about a profile, you look wider than just the one person who might be taking a seat in such a gremium. Then you also see what the added value is and what expertise you still need. So you can make a slightly wider weighting than that you sec only look at a function profile. That's the background to write it down like this. Mr Van Kesteren tried to provoke me a little bit to start a whole debate again on the assessment of media content. Your Chamber has just given a clear message here, not only when it comes to appointments, but also: politically, know your place and do not go over the red line that you are going to give all kinds of assessments about programmes, presenters or whatever. That's not our place. We do have a system responsibility with each other, including me in my position. I must exercise that system responsibility with the red lines in mind. This means that you will be more remote from appointment procedures, but will eventually have to make a weighting out of your system responsibility. The law has properly defined the components of the final decision you have to make. We are not a stamping machine, so we must also take responsibility for it. You have to find a balance to do that to honor and conscience. But you're not gonna give me judgment-making. I understand your wish, because you also tried it in the previous debate, but that does not seem to me to be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u32	I would like to ask the Minister the following. When I think of "profile sketches," there is also very specific reference to work experience. Does the Minister not agree with me that, when you talk about this, work experience can also be filled in in the political office: knowing how the hares, especially in politics, run? Don't you think that's something that should also be tackled?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u33	I think that with the way in which we have set it up, we have colored it well, also looking at the responsibilities that we have laid down very specifically at a distance. It is not up to me now to make all kinds of statements about this and to tell us what could and could not be done. Just let that happen in the places where that has to happen. A wide weighting has been made. It is my experience that people who make themselves available for such functions have a great heart for the public cause, in this case for the public media, and want to contribute to it. Then we have to consider whether their qualities also fit within the whole and whether they have added value, also looking at the legal assignment that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u34	Mr Van Kesteren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u35	Then I would like to ask the Minister whether being poked and miserable in political office can be a reason to waive an appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u36	Sometimes candidates are asked and sometimes they submit themselves. You know how that works. You're going to be very focused on looking for good people for this task. A broad weighting must then be made as to whether someone is fit for this task, also looking at the legal tasks that lie ahead. Once again, we have distanced that from the point of view of the system of responsibility, even though it is ultimately up to the person responsible to approve it. With regard to the appointment procedures, I can go to the governance and the Star in one go, which are somewhat interrelated. When I realized how governance in the Star was arranged, I thought: this is so last century. There were people sitting together on a board who also relate in a different way to each other. The Star has a responsibility to sell advertising time. You know that we did something about that last time, because we want this to be less, but that's a job they have. In addition, the NPO also sat at the table, which needs to think about where there is how much advertising is placed in the programming. That governance wasn't in order. In practice, this allowed sometimes board meetings to become some kind of negotiation or some kind of alignment or whatever. There was actually no proper independent supervision of the Star. Everywhere you look at how good governance is implemented, you see that people are also trying to keep things apart and ensure independence in supervision. Well, that was missing here. That is why we have finally chosen to change the law. This promotes role purity, because it is important for everyone to know what their position is and where it works. Looking at what we are talking about here, it also promotes that, for example, the NPO can cooperate much better with the Star in this way than when you relate to each other in less good governance. This legislative proposal still gives the person responsible the opportunity to intervene if, for example, job neglect is involved. This is also a part of which everyone is very sorry that the law is taking so long, because they really want to work in these new relationships. I also explained it to them: that novelle was our fault and we are dealing with corona, so it just takes a while, but know that everyone is ready to fill this out as soon as possible. In fact, we have taken on board all the opinions that have been given on this subject, which was a question from Mr Pijlman. For one aspect, this is not the case, and that is that it was actually advised that the Commissioner should also be responsible for financial supervision. Actually, we thought that went a little too far. In substance we understood it and financially it happens from the Ministry with all the responsibility that comes with it when it comes to providing documents, accountancy statements and you name it. For the rest, we have implemented the four recommendations that were there. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the subject mentioned by many of you: indexation. He was indeed under the heading of technical changes, and I understand that this has loosened some grumpy in the Labour Party. Maybe other groups have other words for that. Let me begin by saying that I myself was faced with this situation for the first time in 2018. You know that I took office in October 2017. In 2018 this suddenly became a topic. In the years before, it has not been a subject, apart from the fact that there has been a huge debate in a Chamber debate, although it was much more about basic funding, where an amendment finally came out which contained this section with perhaps the longest explanatory statement I have seen in amendments; I believe three pages for a long time. When I spoke about this in the House of Representatives, I took this whole debate to myself again. After this debate had taken place and the amendment was adopted, it has not been a subject at all for years. This, of course, also had to do with the fact that the entry into force would only take place one year after a new concession period had begun. So 2017 would actually have been the first year in which it would become a topic, but then it was quiet everywhere. It hasn't been a subject at all. It wasn't until 2018 that it was suddenly on the table. I was responsible at the time and had taken over the responsibility of my predecessor, including everything that happened before. When it was found that the NPO had taken into account a certain degree of indexation, this had not been done in 2017, but in 2018 it did, and that it was disappointing when the budget came and that part was not in it. I took care of that very business. We just checked if there was any room in the general media reserve that was there and then we transferred an amount to them. We did say that it did come into the law by means of an amendment at the time, but we think it is a looming error, in the sense that indexing revenue from the market is a very strange figure. The indexing of the state media contribution is quite logical, but the indexing of what comes out of the market is quite a strange figure, also in the context of how we had seen the financing of public service broadcasting together. This has ultimately been the reason for us to clarify in the law how we find and think that this should be dealt with. Not to make anything small in texts or anything like that, no, but we thought it would be good to clarify that with the House of Representatives. I am, of course, sensitive to this and some of you have also introduced state law. In the House of Representatives we discussed this in detail. I explained that indexing the state media contribution is a logical one and that we have our systems for that, which is also quite a special one in the past, and it also works as a result of this, but that the indexation of Star revenue, income from the market, is not desirable, because that way income and expenditure will also get out of hand. That can indeed be greatly increased if you continue to calculate it on the basis of calculation examples. The state's contribution simply remains the same and the income from the Star may differ from time to time. It is going quite well at the moment, I can tell you, but we also had a dip last year. Fortunately, it's attracted again, despite the corona situation. So we put that in the law as you found it. It has just been part of the debate in the House of Representatives. An amendment has been tabled. I thought the esteemed MP Van den Hul of the PvdA submitted that as the first petitioner. That was also voted on and the majority of the House of Representatives did not accept that amendment. As stated in the law, it is therefore still standing, despite the fact that an attempt has been made through amendment, a good right for the House of Representatives to do so differently. Thus, in a manner of speaking, the political debate was settled in accordance with the rules of state law, with a vote. In the end, you have seen that the Chamber, I believe unanimously, has accepted the law, which will put into practice this explanation of how we want to deal with indexation. There was a procedure, and that has now become clear. That procedure has been completed. The outcome is clear. The legislator says: no, you have to explain it this way, even with indexation of Star revenue. I have shared this very openly and transparently with the House of Representatives. We have talked about this. I also told the Chamber that we finally agreed with the NPO that we would come up with funding for 2020 and 2021, 2.7 million for 2020 and a small 6 million for 2021. In this way, we have made agreements in all kindness, looking at the judge's judgment. This is without prejudice to the fact that our assessment of how we would like it and how we think it should be, remains in full force. We said ourselves: this was as it is always meant to be. But the court ruling must now really consider it an amendment. That's not to play with language, but that's the situation we ended up in. What if we said we weren't gonna do it? We have also been asked here: can you just shut it down and perhaps take another look at it? With the House of Representatives I discussed this section in detail during the budget debate. There were no statements made by the Chamber........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It has been accepted in principle that this is the agreement made with the NPO for 2020 and 2021. Ordinarily, according to state law, not shadowy, completely transparent and clear, even when it comes to the verdict. Suppose we were going to say, "Let's go index." Then we will have a huge problem with income and expenditure. In the short term, this may not be so bad, but in the long term, it may be huge. One of you said the same thing. The judge says very clearly: if there is no more budget available, the minimum amount must be adjusted. It is also not logical to assume that additional money is made available each time for indexing income from the market. That would mean that we will have to adjust the minimum amount for the new concession period, which will be in force in 2022, and I myself will have to prepare for that in the coming months, to ensure that we have sufficient budget to allow indexation to take place. When the concession period is over, we'll go back to the beginning. You're gonna get a hole. In a math model, let's say it's $100 million. Then we have to bet 95 million at the beginning and then it might be 105 million at the end. Then we'll go back to a new concession period, and if that's what the amounts are, you'll go back to 95 million. This is going to be a yo-yo policy that we are not in favour of. One more comment, Mr. Chairman, looking at what has happened in recent years. The NPO has been given extra money over and over again in addition to the state media contribution. What I have now given to extra money from the general media reserve for 2020 and 2021 is of course nice. They'll do beautiful things with that. I share the views expressed here on the programming that is being made and that you can always use money for that. But looking at what we had already given for extra money, even when it comes to the corona contribution, for example, we would have gone well beyond these amounts. So it's also a question of whether they're going backwards, yes or no. No, they've been getting even more money in recent years than they were formally entitled to. This has been done from the general media contribution and through the way we deal with Star revenue. That money went to them. You also know that the NPO always has a guaranteed budget for five years with a legal indication for the state media contribution. Through the Star they still get the opportunity to generate their own income. As a government we even more or less guarantee the level of that uncertain income, because we have the general media reserve. It seems to me that this is a very nice situation, also from the point of view of how you treat a public service, even financially, properly and in an orderly manner. We'll hold them in full. I have also promised for the new period that we will continue to look fully at this, even when it comes to the question of what financial developments will be like. Especially about the way we deal with the Star, there could be tension. That's why we watch every year, and you'll be informed about it. You asked for that on purpose. That agreement will remain in full force.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u37	I would like to return with the Minister to his statement that there is a looming error. This amendment was, of course, adopted by the House of Representatives, but at the time an opinion was also given by the executive. He's probably advised on that. I wonder what's going on with the advice. It is actually the same question as about the unconstitutional nature of the other amendment. What about the advice? Apparently, it is now evident to the Minister that it is a looming error, but it was not then. That's one thing I want to tell the Minister. Another point is that the Minister says that there has been a wide-ranging debate on this issue in the House of Representatives. If I have understood correctly in the Acts, the Minister has always stressed that it was a clarification. It was never about a change in the system that ultimately means a cut in public service broadcasting. I have never seen those words spoken there, certainly not by the Minister. There were MPs who kept trying to get back on it, but the minister insisted that there was a clarification. I wonder if you could comment on how that debate was held at the time. And you can also take into account the procedure that was going on in the Central Netherlands court at that time, because I haven't seen anything of that either. You said that you discussed the outcome with the House of Representatives, but during the debate the fact that there was a dispute with the NPO and the broadcasters on the subject was not discussed. That is, of course, important, because it has always been said that there has been a clarification. Can you reflect once again on that debate in the Lower House? I think it is an essential point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u38	I actually have some memories of that, because this was the moment when I got very close to the subject, because of all the different views that came to me. I'm just gonna say it visually. First of all, I went back to that debate that had been held earlier and that amendment had been tabled. You probably did. Then you saw that the amendment at that time was broader than just this part. Ultimately, the amendment was a kind of outcome of a broader debate on how firm and how long we should guarantee certain contributions to the NPO. At that time there was also the indexation. It is true that in the amendment, at least in one sentence in that long explanatory statement, it has been extended beyond just the state contribution. In the context of the debate, the amendment was a kind of outcome to provide some clarity for the longer term. The debate I myself had with the Chamber was to that effect the sharpest of the cuts. That is independent of whether we called it a clarification at the time and now a change. That's because of the court ruling that shines a different light on it. On the substance, however, this debate has been fully conducted: should there be indexing or not when it comes to star revenue? Part of the Chamber, a minority, felt that this should be done and tabled an amendment to it. Another part of the Chamber eventually followed the cabinet. I think it was quite a large majority when I looked at the voting conditions in the amendment. That part said: we understand that there needs to be indexed, but not when it comes to Star revenue. That has just happened very transparently. Of course, the fact that the subject became so big in that debate had everything to do with the fact that people knew there was a dispute between NPO and the cabinet when it came to this issue. I don't know if people knew there were all kinds of procedures going on. It is not very common to talk about this when these procedures are still in progress. It was important for me to clarify how we looked at indexation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u39	In that respect, I do not want to suspect the Minister of the provision of incorrect information. Can you imagine that it raises questions when I see the Minister saying over and over again, because I read now, after reading this, that there is a clarification, while there is a dispute before the courts? I think these two things are difficult to reconcile. It may be clear to you, but it was not clear to the outside world. Apparently, the outside world had a very different reading of the amendment than you, which was later confirmed by the judge. Can you imagine that it raises questions when things go that way? Can you reflect on that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u40	Looking at what we discussed then: the question was just on the table. The Van Dam amendment has also been mentioned. We have even followed the debate that was held on this at the time, as I do here, and in what context the amendment was created. The question was simply on the table: do we think, looking at the law that was before us and what the cabinet says about it, that this is our lecture and how we think it should be? I had arguments for that. By the way, I have repeated it here. Parliament was able to give its own opinion on this. Part of Parliament has even said by way of amendment: no, we choose a different interpretation. This has been the subject of a very clear debate, open and focused on the substance, as it should be. At the end of the day, that was a vote. As you know, that vote resulted in the amendment being rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u41	Mrs. Veldhoen, your third?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u42	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u43	There is therefore no question of a cut here either. The state media contribution remains as it is. There is still room for public service broadcasting to obtain additional revenue through Star revenue. They can be used for programming. I also indicated that the guarantee function of the government that we can offer through the general media reserve is quite generous. It will remain in full force. So that doesn't change anything. There is also still the possibility of providing additional funding if we have reason to do so, as has happened in the past period. Think, for example, of the contribution for corona that we have made towards national public service broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u44	It is true that I am concerned with the cuts. I understand the argument. The House of Representatives passed the law. However, the Van Dam amendment was introduced at the time because public service broadcasting was already being cut down considerably. The Minister says that everything is being pushed up, but he forgets to say that at first a lot had gone off. The Van Dam amendment is about the whole amount, including the Star. This has finally been confirmed by the administrative judge and has also been reviewed once again. In the end, this amounts to 0.5% to 1% of the budget every year. The minister says he's always uptight. Is he saying that he will continue to do so, and that this will somehow be compensated in the next concession period? It is a question of an amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u45	I don't do that for years. We discussed the verdict of the judge in hand with the NPO. We were, of course, pleased with that statement, because that was what they had always said in our direction. We had to acknowledge that the interpretation as we had given it was in any case not shared by the judge. The judge isn't just anyone in this country. At that time, we agreed that we would send these amounts to the NPO for 2020 and 2021. Looking at what we had given money in those years, Sec didn't need that right away. We were already way above the minimum budget for the state media contribution, because additional money has gone to them. But we didn't make a case out of that. We said, "Okay, we're gonna do that and the deal's made." Fortunately that was also possible from the general media reserve, so in that respect we have concluded this chapter with the NPO with the making of this agreement. If we want an indexing of the Star budget to take place in the following years, I can only say one thing. First of all, I didn't agree to this with the House of Representatives. That's clear. That's where it's been discussed. There was a vote on the amendment. This has also been discussed in the course of the budget debate. No proposals were made at the time to change things, so it would be a little strange to do so now. But if I have to take this into account, this can only mean one thing: I will have to book a lower state media contribution for 2022 and the years after, to keep enough space to allow that indexation to take place. And then you get a yo-yo effect that I don't think anyone's waiting for. I'm not going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u46	I believe that the purpose of the amendment was precisely to avoid that yo-yo effect by means of indexation, so that the NPO in those five years simply knew where it was going. I have seen that, for whatever reason, the Minister has admitted, by granting an additional contribution for 2020 and 201, about the amount the NPO had counted on, so I do not understand. The Van Dam amendment was in favour of stable funding. After consulting the Minister, admitting that in the end it was a cut, the money was given. My question is: can he still do that for the years to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u47	Mrs. Vos spoke in her contribution about my warm heart for public service broadcasting. I think this has proved to be the case. In 2018 we noticed that this was happening, that there was really a difference of opinion here. I myself was very convinced that you should not start indexing revenues from the market. That is a rather strange figure, even apart from the fact that there is a passage about it in the amendment and that it also went along as part of the history of law that was never a subject until 2018, even in 2017, when it should actually be applied for the first time. Since we saw that they had taken it into account, we said: okay, then we will come up with a solution. And that was lucky. That's nice. Now that the verdict is there, they have been spoken to again and this appointment has been made for two years. That's clear. But it is also clear that, as far as we are concerned, the explanation must be as it is and that it is now also in the law that is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u48	Mrs. Fox. Third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u49	I understand that the Minister says he finds the basis on which it happens, with Star revenue, difficult, because it wiggles and moves. Anyway, perhaps the previous minister should have paid more attention to that. He loved public service broadcasting for two years. But bottomline is about public service broadcasting counting on these amounts, no matter how they come about. So my question is, especially since the Minister has a warm heart for public service broadcasting, whether he cannot ensure that there is a plan for even more stable funding, which also takes account of that level. Because in the end it is a number of millions a year that he can give to a next cabinet. And I'm not sure there's another one of those loving ministers in the next cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u50	When it comes to public service broadcasting and what it is counting on: we have sat around the table with each other and we have made this agreement. Here's the deal: 2021. They agreed to that. That's what we agreed to. The fact that they still have wishes and, if necessary, hope for a political majority that will draw attention to them and ensure that additional money will also be available for the years after that, is quite legitimate. But it is not for me to start making all kinds of statements and making promises there, because of the deportationary state in any case. You can't ask me to do that. I am merely warning you that if you go ahead with this, and it is absolutely not the reason why the cabinet decides to index income from the market, then this will have an impact on the minimum budget if such amounts are to be added. It is the judge who even points that out, and who actually points that out, I am not saying that he has made a suggestion that this is an opportunity to give full effect to indexing. I don't think that's desirable. And what a next cabinet thinks, and how it's going to be set up, is up to the new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u51	Mrs. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u52	I asked a question. It is the basis of the calculation. The public service broadcaster and you do not agree whether or not you should have added the Star budget. I understand the Minister's objections, but is he prepared to look into whether this indexation, which is now being done on the basis of a certain price index, is still going along with the actual cost increase that you have of course annually? I am also just worried about paying for all those people who are walking around in public service broadcasting, who may have to nibble more and more if it leads to 0.5% to 1% less budget compared to the rate that would normally increase the budget, if, for example, you would go along with collective wage agreements. These are all sorts of methods of calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u53	So this is the debate on whether the indexation of the State's media contribution still needs to take place in this way. I have not received any signals in the last period that we want to go back to choosing other systems. That works. This also results in a certain amount of money every year. I have noticed, however, that was the legacy of the previous cabinet, as you know, we were ultimately forced to reduce the state media contribution. That's what I had to do in 2019 with pain in my heart, because estimates were made, including Star revenue, which didn't ultimately match what money came in. That has been a very painful and annoying procedure. I'm very happy about what happened after that. There has been a commitment from the House of Representatives to make available, occasionally and after that, structural money. That structural money was finally given to me by the law which, to my great delight in December, was once again thanked to everyone here even without a vote. That was unprecedented for such a law that was about a new concession period. That's never been shown before. At that time I also indicated that this extra money, which is now structural, will be used. I have made arrangements with you and the House of Representatives to follow the agreements made between me and the NPO. Those agreements are about making the more commercials. Every year we consider whether the estimates made can and can go out. My successor will have to do so. He'll take over that responsibility. That's what we're gonna do. In fact, we have already started to do so in the direction of 2022. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bikker had another question, partly on behalf of Mr Atsma. We do miss them here. His heart is always on these subjects. I too wish him well. The question was about the 40 million. That's what it comes down to in the end. We've made extra money available. In an earlier reply, I indicated the following: I was thinking in the direction of Mrs Veldhoen. If there are really very specific needs where we see that a public service broadcaster could contribute to it, but where finances could be an obstacle to doing so, we will contribute to that. We did that in the context of the corona support. Programming was postponed. Things that had already been programmed had to be brought forward. Then a hole fell for the months after. Additional broadcasts had to be provided. Measures to continue to do the work in corona time also cost money. We have contributed to this. By the way, a large part of them paid for themselves. Such situations can, of course, always occur in the future. We have also been very interested in organising the Eurovision Song Contest. It is now estimated that this will take place in May. At least I have given room for Rotterdam to still be the organizing city. The wait is only a moment in what way that will be filled out. This will depend on the epidemiological situation. We hope, of course, that this will happen to the public. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have answered the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u54	Thank you, Minister. Then I shall suspend for a single moment before starting with the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u55	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Veldhoen on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering all the questions carefully. We welcome the strong wording used by the Minister to express his disapproval of aggression against journalists. It is good to hear that the agreements made around PressSafe works are being kept. We support his call to journalists to press charges at all times, so that what is absolutely unacceptable is not normal. The concerns of my group about the new service test have not been completely eliminated. It is good that the deadline for examining the application is monitored. We also welcome the commitment that the Minister will keep the Chamber informed of the outcome. The Minister replied to my question on experiments and the application procedure that an experiment may go through during the application, which is in any case clear even if that application takes up to two years and the'standard Alaf', as it has been called, is not reached. Once again, I am glad the Minister says this so clearly. This also provides clarity for practice. The Minister has a warm heart for public service broadcasting. We've seen that with each other today. However, he does not wish to continue the indexation of Star revenue. This is de facto a matter of austerity. It is not a very big cut, but it is still a cut of 2 million to 3 million a year. My group is not in favour of this cut. The Minister is not prepared to compensate for this in structural terms. It's going to be a bit of a cardigan pocket, and that doesn't help public service broadcasting. My group has great difficulty with that. The Minister refers a number of times to the judge's ruling on indexing and budgetary systems. If I am right, the judge in paragraph 11 says I'm going to take it out of my mind for a moment that Article 2.148a creates its own regime for the budgetary system. I ask the Minister to respond, because I do not quite understand what the Minister is saying in this regard. Can he explain again, on the basis of the judge's ruling, how this funding is being financed and within which system it fits? At the bottom of the line, my group is unhappy about three important parts of the proposal. Firstly, the procedure for indexing. We're gonna have a double feeling about that. Two. The effects of the indexation. It's just a cutback. Three. The heavy service test is not necessary under European law. In the coming week, we will consider the extent to which improved governance outweighs these three disadvantages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u57	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. I call Mr Van Kesteren on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you very much to the Minister for his valuable time and for answering all the questions. Mr. Chairman. For the PVV Group, a number of questions that concern us have not really been answered after this debate. Is there really a free press? Is the NPO as objective and independent as we all think in a majority here? Are implementation and enforcement of what is envisaged by this legislative amendment balanced? Mr. Chairman. During this debate I was confirmed that a number of political groups disagree with the PVV Group. These questions were even answered in the negative. In order to prevent and exclude the appearance of conflicts of interest, the PVV Group therefore proposes the following in a motion. We propose to ask the Minister to examine the extent to which the journalistic norm and programming at the NPO actually reflect all social beliefs, views and interests in social, cultural and philosophical terms. I have the next motion. Mr President, I think I am supposed to read the motion myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u59	If you wish to file the motion, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u60	Good. The: Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Bezaan, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Dessing and Mr Pouw-Verweij proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[appointment, suspension and dismissal procedures must be independent of political influence;]] [[the current legislative proposal cannot fully prevent possible political influence on the journalistic norm and programming;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which the journalistic norm and programming at the NPO actually reflect all societal beliefs, views and interests in the social, cultural and philosophical field,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35042-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u61	It's possible. You can say that for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u62	That's supposed to be part of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u63	Is that what I'm supposed to say? "And proceed to the order of the day."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u64	Otherwise we cannot proceed to the order of the day if the motion is adopted. Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u65	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. As for what I said about collectible laws and various laws, the Minister indicated that this was only the second one he sent to this Chamber. That's the story of "a little pregnant." As far as we are concerned, two laws are too many, because it is the fact that we are dealing with parts of a law... Disrespectfully said, it's a bit like the vegetable package you buy from the regional farmer. There's always something in there that you just don't like at all and then put aside in the hope that someone else likes it. Thank you also for the Minister's reply on the dynamics that led to the judgment of Chamber giving an unconstitutional amendment. We agree that dynamics do not change the Constitution and that this simply should not happen again. I hope that lessons have been learned from this, because support should not only be political, but also legal. Any political feasibility will only come after that. Mr. Chairman. The Minister said that views help with procedures. It's possible. I have some experience with that as a driver. However, I also have experience with disappointment when people submit an opinion that then nothing happens. This leads to hardening of positions and more procedures rather than fewer procedures. This must be taken into account in the future. I'm not saying that you have to give everyone what they want, but there really needs to be a very serious way of dealing with views. Otherwise, it will only lead to more procedures and hardening of positions, as I have just said. Then the desire is the father of the thought that this does not happen, but many have preceded the minister in this thought and many have also been disappointed in it. However, I hope with the Minister that it will work here and that it will be properly implemented. It is, of course, good to hear that objection and appeal against a decision of the Minister are simply open. That was a little snowy. I didn't see that in the treatment in the Lower House either. It's good to know that you can talk in front, but that normal legal procedures are open, should you disagree at the end. Until now that has not been reported, but it is good that it is clear now. Then I come to governance. The Minister says that everyone is now waiting for this law. But those who, with different hats on and with conflict of interests in the current governance, carry out their task already have nothing to do with doing it differently, if they know that there is a conflict of interests and that they should not. It's not just in the structure. I also tried to report that to the Minister in my first term. Just an approach to the structure doesn't change it. It may be a starting point and it may be a little more framework, but it is also a matter of people. Governance is made by people and not the other way around. Apologies to the Minister that I had missed part of his answer about the ACM, but I was still reading something back in the Acts of Procedure in the House of Representatives. I was particularly concerned with the ACM. The Minister said that the ACM is fully equipped and that is why we can do all this. But the ACM has a different primary purpose, doesn't it? This is because it collects data and investigates the laws it upholds. I'm interested in that distinction. This is actually a kind of secondary task for the ACM, where it should be very clear that, for example around Wob procedures, this is a different type of data than the data they collect in the context of investigations. If the Minister wishes to confirm that again, then that is much clearer. After all, it is a bit of an outcast that is now housed in the ACM and not its main task. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the second-term response and I will discuss with my group what our verdict will be next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u66	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u67	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I forgive the Minister for missing my name for a moment, although my name must be so easy for the Minister, because it is exactly the same as that of his partymate in this Chamber, Mirjam. Then the last name also starts with the same letter, namely a b, but then De Blécourt. So I think that's a handy donkey bridge for next time. The Minister indicated that the novelle is an example of the importance of the First Chamber. The added value of the First Chamber has proved itself again today and it is nice to hear it from the Minister. The Minister said that the safety of journalists is a top priority. He also said that tough action will be taken against the people who are compromising the safety of journalists. That's good for the VVD. Under the bill, there is an additional opportunity for commercial parties to express their views. Those views could be taken into account by the ACM. The VVD has asked whether it should not be "should" because otherwise it is a wash nose. The Minister states that the ACM is an independent body and that he cannot impose anything on the ACM, but the Minister also said that the ACM will let its eye go over it. The VVD is happy to be given a commitment from the Minister that at least a consideration will be given to the point of view, otherwise it will be a wash of the VVD Group. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group has asked the Minister how he intends to ensure that there will be no conflict of interest. The VVD Group will be happy to receive an answer to this in the second period of time. I just spoke a little short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u68	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. I call Mrs Vos on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering the questions, even though I still have a number of questions on the two points that almost everyone is talking about here. As far as the new service procedure is concerned, I explicitly asked what would happen if there were still no decisions after six months. The Minister repeatedly replied: we are going to do everything we can to ensure that it does not lead to delays. But what is the answer to that question what happens if there is no ruling? Isn't it true that according to the General Administrative Law you can assume that you can simply use the new supply channel, for example? I'm not a lawyer and certainly not a board lawyer, but I think this is a well-known procedure. I would like an answer from the Minister, because this would mean that delay would not be rewarded; even more, that delay could lead to a new channel of supply. Then the choice of indexing. The minister had a very strange argument. I had to chew on that. If we were to index according to the intention of the Chamber in 2013, the intention of the Van Dam amendment, that would mean that he would have to reduce the amount every five years. That just gave me a little trauma. I've been a flex worker for a long time. What's the trouble with flexwork? Each time you get a new contract that starts again from zero. As a flex worker you can never grow along with the indexing or the steps in the collective agreement. In fact, the Minister said that if we do this, we will have a succession of flex contracts, which means that public service broadcasting must always stand still. I don't think that's the point. The intention of Van Dam's amendment and therefore of the Chamber in 2013 was that public service broadcasting could grow along with it. That whole argument that you have to go from 100 to 95 to grow, I don't understand. I still do not see why a new explanation, by amending the law, would transfer the total amount of public service broadcasting to public service broadcasting. As I and some of my colleagues understand, this simply means a small annual cut in public service broadcasting. I have a motion on this, with a number of colleagues, which reads as follows. The: Mr Vos, Mr Veldhoen, Mr Janssen and Mr Raven proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the change in the basis of indexation by the new Article 2.148a Media Act will lead to a cut in the budget of public service broadcasting;]] [[Whereas this structural cut in public service broadcasting is undesirable in view of the challenges facing public service broadcasting in the rapidly changing media landscape;]] [[calls on the Government to compensate for this cut and, as in previous years, to allocate the full amount of indexation to the NPO;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare to develop a new basis for indexation which also takes into account declining Star revenue;]] [[calls on the Government to inform Parliament of this before 1 April 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35042-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u70	This motion was co-signed by colleague Veldhoen, colleague Janssen and colleague Roven van de OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u71	Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u72	Mr. Raven, I'm sorry. I'm still getting used to my new neighbor. But I know that he has wholeheartedly co-signed this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u73	This motion will receive the letter M of Mei Li. Would you like to place the motion on the table on your right? Then it can be taken into operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u74	The PvdA Group does not yet know about this bill. There are a number of good proposals and a number of things which, in our view, lead to deterioration for public service broadcasting. Like the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, we will also be thinking about what we should do. That depends, of course, partly on the Minister's response to our questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I call Mr Pijman, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the very clear answer. There is one point left and one point that you have not yet responded to. I hope you'll want to do that later. You have been clear about the service procedure. I'm assuming that's how it's gonna be now. What remains is the whole question of indexation. I do not find it very happy in terms of communication, even how it was written in the explanatory statement, but you have now been very clear. When we discussed the Media Act in December, I asked how you deal with the judge's ruling. Then you said you were going to index. Then I thought, "Well, that's the problem we've had. However, it was only found to apply for 2020 and 2021, and this amendment, in this Vara Act, is the end of it. In fact, there is a form of austerity. You say you've come a long way towards public service broadcasting; look at corona. That is what you call an example, but I do not think that is the most strong example, because there is, of course, something on the contrary. Or look at the new concession period. Yes, it was extraordinary that we were able to see it here without a vote. And there's definitely extra resources in that. This is also the subject of responsibilities. Because you are not indexing any more now, public service broadcasting is missing a few million a year and in the previous cabinet period there has been a lot of savings. I'd like to ask you to take a good look at that one more time. We do not have the right of amendment here. You have clearly explained how the debate has been in the House of Representatives. We have seen it before that the Second and First Chambers disagree on points. In that case, of course, the political mandate is there. Then there is my final question, which you did not address earlier: how do we protect public service broadcasting, even if new service providers are added, from disinformation and fake news? Thank you again for what you said about the protection of journalists. We discussed this in December. You'll get back to that. I would like to have an exchange of views on this. It's about public service broadcasting, with a public service mission. Information must be clear and clear. That is also the power of public service broadcasting. It also has to do with how to protect our rule of law from all kinds of external pressure, which sometimes becomes very strong. I'd like another comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u77	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I call Mr De Vries on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u78	Better than nothing. The amendments to the 2008 Media Act proposed by the Minister are urgently needed. But to quote his own words: this is so last century. All the opinions, views and evaluation reports underlying these changes would like to exchange our group for a new legislative proposal in the future, in which media policy will be thoroughly adapted to current times. We look forward to dealing with such a modern bill in the coming cabinet period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u79	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. Finally, Mrs Bikker has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for his clear answer. Indeed, the legislative proposal entails a number of improvements in the supervision of public service broadcasting, in particular the Star. That's what this room asked for. It's good that we're discussing that right now. I sincerely hope that what this Chamber has asked for can also count on the support of the Chamber, but we will see that. As far as I am concerned, the Minister has rightly pointed out that there is a complexity in the indexation. It's grown so much. There are things to find. I do wonder whether this small proposal for a variety of laws is the time to have that fundamental discussion, and whether this is the house where that fundamental discussion should be held, especially with a outgoing cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Over the past few years, this minister has repeatedly shown his willingness to contribute financially to public service broadcasting in particularly difficult times and thus to maintain the system. With the 40 million last, he shows his heart to public service broadcasting, as we have also noticed in the response. I do not know how many times the Minister and I will discuss this beautiful subject in this house. For me, a clock is ticking towards March 17th. I don't know how long the minister is in a missionary state, or how long he's going to go on in another period. I would, however, like to express my deep appreciation for all those times when he was ready to strengthen and defend public service broadcasting. If he knows about how long I look back on that time, I hope he will see how well this has come about, and that we have made a nice contribution to that in this house together. My appreciation for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u81	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? Mr. Van Kesteren, you want to interrupt Mrs. Bikker? I give you the floor on the interrupting microphone: would you like to take the floor there, Mr Van Kesteren? You've already had your term, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u82	Mr. Chairman. This legislative change aims to reduce political influences in public administration. The PVV Group agrees with this and therefore we do not need to vote on this legislative amendment. However, the PVV Group wonders whether this change of law will actually lead to the exclusion of political influence from the journalistic norm and programming. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u83	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes, until 3:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u84	I give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Chamber for the contribution, now in second term. I shall begin my reply with Mrs De Blécourt, because some embarrassed me because I was mistaken in her name. That can't happen, so I apologize for that. Such a beautiful name with such a historical background you should just remember. I think that's going to happen from now on. Well, that's the by-catch of that moment. You had two more questions in my direction. One relating to ACM and "must and can'. The law does say that they must involve the views in the advice they give. We will bring to their attention our requests in order to make it clear in words that this has happened. We can simply include that in the request. When it comes to ACM and their staffing, agreements have been made that they can also bill per application. That is good, I say in the direction of Mrs Vos, because that means that if they need people to do so, they will also be paid for it so that they can arrange it. That was in addition to what I had already said about it in the first term. Mrs De Blécourt also asked how we could prevent this undesirable conflict of interests, if there were one. That also had to do with the fact that the novelle didn't go through. However, the law contains several safeguards that there is no direct political influence on the content, as you know. This is not only stated in the general task of public service broadcasting, but it is also necessary to draw up drafting rules which are a legal obligation in which the journalistic rights and duties and the independence of editors and programmers are regulated and thus guaranteed. So there are many other ways of ensuring that politics really remains at a distance. I think that's how we're gonna do it. I would like to thank Mr Van Kesteren for his last interruption. He indicated that the political influence may not be entirely preventable. Let us be clear that what was once exchanged here in this Chamber and the concerns that there were at that time with regard to the then-in-law laws and regulations has led us to try to embed these safeguards in the law, in order to promote the objective that we have in mind. So that's what we want. You have tabled a motion in which you say that you would like to have it examined to what extent journalistic standards and programming at the NPO actually reflect all social beliefs, views and interests in the social, cultural and philosophical field. And then it is true that it is written "the order of the day" with pen. I actually wanted to move on to the order of the day and dissuade her. Let me explain to you why. I am also looking at the debate we had before Christmas. In it, I think it has become clear in everything that there is real space, including for new entrants, to be part of our public media system. In fact, in the law that was finally passed here without a vote, we have set the bar a little lower, even for those who could already be a little bit interested in broadcasting and now have the opportunity to take a permanent place. We also see in names and faces that there are a lot of new applications for prospective broadcasting. That was another question from Mr Pijlman which I had not answered. Those procedures are still ongoing. The expectation is that the prospective broadcasters may all be setting the bar or perhaps even jumping over it, but all this still needs to be formalised. Look at the new entrants, too. When we talk about diversity, it's just the names that have passed through here. But it will have to be seen whether this will actually lead to accession. There is that possibility and that is very nice in our Dutch order. People who absolutely did not recognize themselves in the reflection represented in the registrations and the like that were there may now feel more recognized and involved in our public media through a new entrant. That's our order. That's how we organized it. To be honest, I do not see any added value in order to carry out another separate study. There's something underneath that something happens that wouldn't be kosher, just to put it in those terms. I advise against this motion. I believe you are fully served by the law which has been adopted by your Chamber. I think you agreed to that at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u86	I understand that there is progress in the diversity in the number of public broadcasters, but I am mainly referring to the boards of directors and supervisory boards at the NPO, which, in the view of the PVV Group, are very one-sided, in any case, made up of like-minded ones. Our conclusion is that this is somewhat reflected in journalistic standards and programming. That's the point I want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u87	If there is any concern that politics might be very close to such appointments, then this law is evidence that we want to keep it at bay. Of course, the system of responsibility of a govern ment has to make a final assessment of nominations that are made, but there too, the criteria are clearly defined and very transparent when it comes to the question to which you might reject a nomination. In my opinion, this is precisely what we have done in this law in a very good way. From your point of view, this law has a clear added value in relation to the situation before it, in which your Chamber expressed doubts or was sufficiently guaranteed that distance would remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u88	Thank you. Try to keep a distance of 1.5 metres from each other in the room for everyone's safety, especially if some people are not wearing a mouth cap. Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u89	Finally, I would like to make a plea for our motion, which seeks to exclude or at least confirm the right or wrong of our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u90	It is right or wrong... We are dealing here with the assessment of a law, in which we try in another way to ensure that more distance is created between politics and appointments, so that the concern is taken away that those appointments may eventually have an impact on programming. This is the impact of what has ever been exchanged here in this Chamber. We put that into practice. I do not think that you should tempt me to go into all sorts of cases or to judge what would or would not be the practice. We really need to focus on what the legal frameworks are, how we want them set up, what the position of a ruler is when it comes to appointments, how much distance we want to create in them and, if we create that distance, how we're going to set it up. That is the debate we are having. Now there is a law before us which is a considerable change in relation to the old situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u91	Following the motion. In my opinion, this motion maintains a myth that is not based on facts. Without proof of the theorem, a number of things are asked here. It suggests administrative influence of programs and that there is influence of journalistic freedom in the NOS. I think the Minister should refrain from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u92	I think I've been clear about the independence of the media. Let there be no doubt about that. I explained this because that is what we have here today, and that is how we have come up with a number of amendments in this law, based on a debate that has once been held in the Upper House, in order to emphasise that independence. Let there be no doubt that the media will have to do their job independently and make choices. We also saw yesterday in a study that confidence in the news supply is growing again. That is very nice to notice, although there are age categories that we may have to pay some attention to. This also says something about how the media in the Netherlands do their work and about the appreciation for it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Janssen made a nice comparison between the variawet and the vegetable farmer's regional package. I have some experience with that myself. Not directly with the vegetable farmer, but with such packages. Sometimes it's kind of nice to use something you've never used before. I always find that the charm of such packages. Apart from that, I think it is clear that it is quite difficult for you to judge laws when there is so much variety in them, and to know that if you do not want one part and you vote against it, you do so against all kinds of other parts that you do care about. This is sometimes the case with ordinary laws. That's what we've been through here before. There may also be something in there that you think might be better off not. Well, that's all there is to it. I can't call it a restriction, but your toolbox is a little less large than the one on the other side. We're trying to get the ACM to do its job properly. That is also the absolute commitment. The moment we lay this down in the law, it's not a side job anymore. Then it is part of the ACM's task package. The task will then have to be entered and carried out. Then that's just part of her legal task, not something that comes with it. We have, of course, talked to the ACM about the possibilities they have to implement this. From the fact that we have proposed this boldly, you can see that we have every confidence in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u93	Then perhaps it is not formally a secondary task, but a part of the law. However, it is a different kind of task from that normally carried out by the ACM, namely supervision. It's a different kind of investigation than she normally does from her supervisory role. This also means that another type of data is collected, which also have a different status. I call the Wob, for example. That difference is clear, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u94	When this becomes part of their legal task, we will, of course, have to ensure that they have the expertise and the powers to carry out that task. They flow from that, too, and there are. So they can get to work. Of course, I hope that they will continue to work well with the Culture Council and the Commissioner, so that there will be no loss of time. Some of you had some fear of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u95	That ignores my question. My question is about the fact that this is a different kind of investigation. I am concerned that the ACM can say in the ordinary investigations it conducts in the context of its enforcement role that research results, for example, are not covered by the Wob. That is not the case here. This is an official task, but it is a different kind of task, with different information being collected. They can't put everything under the big name of the ACM task, which means that this is also subject to a different regime than usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u96	I don't know exactly how that Wob technique works out. Something has just changed in the open government and so on, and how it works out. Let me promise you this. We have indicated that we will monitor how the ACM will do its work. With that monitor, I will take this aspect with me, so that you will be informed. In another place in this house, my officials correctly state that this is a commitment in your direction, so that you there. will receive information about it. Mr. Chairman. In particular, the indexing is still a subject in which some of the honourable Members have pointed out to me that they have some difficulty with what the cabinet is proposing here. To my great sadness I even noticed that I was talking to Mrs Vos about a trauma, or that it was coming up again. I don't know exactly what happened, but of course I'm very sorry. Of course, that's the last thing I'd want. It seems very important to me that we should ask each other the question, very briefly, whether it is logical that you index income from the market, regardless of the fact that this was in a sentence in an amendment, by the way, an amendment that was not covered by the law and that it came into force in that way, which in the first few years nobody really paid any attention to it, until it suddenly came up in 2018 and I was confronted with it. I have heard very few of you on this subject. My answer and the answer from the cabinet is that we do not think this is logical. Apart from the fact that it was once said, take them in full width. Then there is also the fact that, of course, we are indexing the state media contribution. So it's just growing along. That is what you always see in the budget when we look at the years after that. And you also know that, if we establish the state media contribution, we will have a new concession period at the beginning of next year, which will be fixed for five years. So when we talk about how this relates to the budgetary system, it is guaranteed for five years. There are indeed passages in the law that give us the opportunity to adjust the budget downwards in the event of unforeseen circumstances. Unfortunately, this has happened once in the past period, because we noticed that it was no longer possible to index the disappointing Star revenue from the general media reserve. Unfortunately, that's what I did with heart pain. I was very happy when the 40 million came, which was finally transferred to the general media contribution. I say to Mrs Vos that this means that our advertising plans have ensured that this amount has been transferred and included in the state media contribution in a structural way, so that the 40 million is indexed. That's just very nice, because then you can also calculate what it's going to yield in the long run. So the best answer is also in formations, to put that out loud for a while is simply to make sure that the advertising softness can be implemented further. And, of course, to ensure that this has an effect on the state media contribution, because it is subject to indexation. How do we deal with fluctuations in advertising revenue? It's a well-known fact. We have the general media reserve for that. That is a very nice thing, even when it comes to public service broadcasting, regardless of the fact that in the last period it has not been possible to fill a gap from that reserve and to prevent a fluctuation. But the reserve is now fairly full again and we can also use it again in the coming period. There is a lot going bad in the country right now, but the media is doing quite well, also with advertising revenue. It is also the expectation that we hope, at least, that this will continue in the coming years. But if you ask me now to develop a new basis for indexation, which also takes into account declining Star revenue... I can of course tell you that we are going to put this on paper... By the way, I am going to be part of a outgoing cabinet, but I am going to be expecting us to index Star revenue. I just don't see that happening. A much better way, if you want to do something about the fluctuations in Star revenue, is to continue the advertising luster. That is clearly the best solution. We have taken a first step in this direction. So for that reason, I advise against this motion. We have implemented the first request in the motion. We have made agreements with the NPO for 2021 and 2022 in 2018 without a ruling, also because that statement was there. I also mentioned the amounts in my first term. A new cabinet, in whatever composition, I know that the coalition parties are very willing to participate, if I follow the media in this way, and then I think it is about reliable information, but there are probably also parties that are not in the cabinet now who think this is very important. I don't know if that's wise, but you can. But they may also be able to do something about these fluctuations and instability in other ways, and to ensure that there is more certainty and perhaps more budget. But those are political choices. We don't make them as a missionary cabinet. This will have to be discussed in the formation after the elections. Even if this law is passed, he is not a barrier to formation, even if this is the explanation given to indexing, to make additional money available for the purpose sought by a number of members. But I keep repeating that what is happening now is not a cutback. It's just another way of dividing up and of how you want to let go of money. But if income falls short of spending, you just get stuck. We don't want that. The judge made observations on this matter. Mrs Veldhoen asked about that. The judge just said, if it's with an existing budget, you can just adjust that amount down. Let me say it in my own words, but that is the bottom line. I don't think that's a very nice figure. That's where your trauma came from. If you were going to do that and there will be no extra money in the period after that, then you have to go back to the beginning. That is simply the reality and not the reality that I have in mind. That is why it is perhaps only clear to say today: we are putting an end to it, we have made extra compensation 2021, we have made agreements with the NPO and if we can find other ways in the future to allow extra money to go to public service broadcasting, we will always find a good use for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u97	Two comments. That last request, about the new indexation, is precisely about the fact that public service broadcasting is likely to receive less Star revenue, because that is also a wish of many parties in the Chamber. It's not about being based on Star revenue, it's about being taken into account that they might not even be there anymore. In the previous debate, you made a commitment to Mrs Veldhoen on a broader study of how we will deal with public service broadcasting in the future. Perhaps there could be some comments on how this funding can be sustainable. I find it very difficult with all these different jars and funding and percentages. You're talking about a change. There was a lot of discussion about the meaning of words and then about the concrete significance of the legislative amendment for funding. It's hard to tell now if you're right or if I'm right. So this motion just stands. I'm gonna use this week to sort things out. Then we will see what happens next week in the vote. At the moment, I cannot say whether there has actually been a cut, even if it is very small or not. For that, I need all the numbers in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u98	Of course I respect that. On the question of whether there are other ways to prevent this uncertainty of advertising revenue, my answer to the legal treatment has already been: yes, it can be done if you make it more commercial. We have done so, and we have opened the wallet for that, because it has also increased the state media contribution. It's just the indexing. The question remains whether you think it is logical that income from the market should be indexed. You know my views on this. If further steps are taken in the future by parties who consider that advertising is important, then I do not need to prepare for that. They will have to open the wallet for that. It is very good to capitalize what that means, but these are political agreements that need to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u99	I also know that you get a lot of security about financing or income when your income is halved. Then you're sure it's halved. Are you also saying that it's making commercials, so those declining Star revenue, one-on-one, are compensated by the addition to the media reserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u100	I went into this very extensively during the debate we had in December. We have made these payments with those involved, the NPO in particular, but also with the CoR. We are convinced that, with the percentages of blind advertising, as we see it, we have shared these estimates, also on the basis of the estimates on which they were based, and we have shared those estimates, which at that time were the starting point for us, and we were also jointly convinced that we will be able to play around in the years to come, as I have said in your direction. But anything can happen on the way. We know that. That is why, every year, we check what the developments are, what the expectations are for next year, and how they relate to the financial situation and assumptions we had at the start. If this is negative, then there's always the possibility to say: okay, we won't do it this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u101	If you don't mind, I'd like to come back to something the minister said in the last block. The Minister said that stakeholders' views could be taken into account. But in the second term, the Minister said that the ACM should take that view into account. The Minister will inform the ACM in a letter. The VVD Group would like the Minister's commitment to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u102	I didn't use the word "must" but I said "relevant point of view." That's exactly what I think it says in the law. You had a request. In fact, you would like words to be devoted to this in the opinion. We will ask this in the request we will make in the case of an application. It is a commitment on your part that we will then take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u104	Then Mr Pijlman asked about fake news and disinformation. I think you asked if this could be included in the investigation. That's what we're gonna do. So I have promised that we will involve this in the investigation that I promised in December towards Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u105	Then I would also like to go back to the previous block on indexing and making the commercials. In my memory, advertising has not been compensated for 100% by the 40 million that was discussed in the previous debate. I think there's a hole in that. In my view, the gap is getting a little bigger now that the indexation of Star revenue is getting better. Inspired by Mr Vos, I ask you whether you are prepared to include the full extent of the advertising in the promised research, which is also based on reliable means for public broadcasting. It is therefore about the decline in advertising, the loss of advertising revenue and the fact that indexation is now going down. Can you promise that the overall picture will be taken into account in the study, so that we can get a complete overview of how these barrels communicate with each other between the state media contributions and the Star revenue? Can you promise that this will be taken into account in its entirety?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u106	I have a few comments to make. First of all, the indexation is now going away. There has just been never indexed in the past period. That should have happened for the first time in 2017, but that has not happened. In 2018, the issue was put on the table. I was able to make a certain contribution to the NPO from the general media reserve. It was not on the agenda in 2019, because we had to establish a new general government contribution, a minimum budget. So you don't have to index. In 2020 and 2021, we made the deal, as it is now in the wake of the court ruling. So it is not the case that suddenly figures have to be adjusted and so on. It was never really put into practice. That was found out in 2018. Yeah, that's how it happened. I can't do it any other way. It's not like they're suddenly gonna get less money. Perhaps they have made calculations themselves and thought: this will be added to what has been promised, is in the budget and has been set out on a multiannual basis. We're not gonna do that this way. With regard to the 40 million and the advertising slip, I have just said to Mrs Vos that this is really going around, on the basis of estimates that we have accepted with each other and on the basis of which the calculations have been made. Only, they're all assumptions. We just don't know what it's gonna be like in the future. Look at the year we've been through. We don't have that in our own hands. That is why we have indicated that, in every budget debate, we will look at developments, what the current estimates are, also for next year, and how they relate to the agreements we have made on advertising.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u107	The question then remains whether this problem is part of that research. Is the overall picture taken when it comes to financing public service broadcasting?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u108	I have to dig into my memory, but I think we've made agreements to see how the finances are developing. It goes without saying that you take the current picture with you, including what other revenue comes into the public service. So if that's what you're saying, that's what's in there. Then I don't have to admit it, but it's part of the mission. If that's any different, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u109	As far as advertising is concerned, I see a development in which, by definition, more money should be made available from the public authorities, even if it is only for the way in which advertising is made cheaper and more accessible to SMEs. Otherwise, it will be a very limited story, and only large companies will be able to pay for the advertising. I believe that a nuance to the future should be sought.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u110	We have had that debate. In that debate, you think about how public service broadcasting and advertising relate to each other. The view of at least a majority of this Chamber was that the desire to reduce advertising is great, but that we really need to finance it. There was that view in the House of Representatives. That's how we did it. As you know, we started advertising children's programs and online. This has even started on 1 January before the new concession period starts a year later. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I've answered all the questions. I would just like to thank Mrs Bikker for her warm words in my direction. I even started to blush a little bit. I assume that was also on Mr. Atsma's behalf. That's good, too. You represented him, too, my esteemed former colleague. I wish you all the best, of course, and bless you in your new place, if the voter will allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u111	I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u112	Because that's what the voter is about. And that's the way it should be, but I have some faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u113	I am very sorry to interrupt these warm words, but one question remains. We'll remember the questions. That was the question of what would happen if those six months were exceeded. Doesn't anything happen at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u114	I would have answered that. There won't automatically be some kind of trap axe coming down. It will be necessary to look very closely at the reasons why this deadline has not been met. On this basis, it will be necessary to consider the extent to which further steps are needed. Just take this time. Corona really leads to delays in procedures. We can jump high and low, but unfortunately that is simply a result of the limitations we are dealing with. You indicated earlier that if people are really deliberately slowing down, then of course we are dealing with a completely different story. Are the views perhaps very broad and should there be a great deal of action? It remains in full force, also in accordance with our laws and regulations, that it should be aimed at achieving the legal deadlines and at motivating them when they are not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u115	This is not a hard line. Depending on the situation, we're looking at it. I think Mrs De Blécourt has already referred to this. So it's not hard. What happens when the deadline is exceeded is actually a little soft. My experience with corona is that things go much faster, because you don't have to make complicated physical arrangements and you can meet much faster. So I don't quite understand that argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u116	It was an example. I have similar experiences with corona, but I also have other experiences. I am thinking here of my own work and of how procedures are now running and how alignment is now taking place. Sometimes there's a delay. But let's just be clip-and-ready here. Six months is six months. The Alaaf norm, as we are going to call it, is simply true. That's what everything has to be focused on. We're gonna follow it. There is indeed some concern about the way in which we have now laid it down in the law. We say that it is really a clarification that gives much more transparency and clarity to all those involved, which may also allow much more speed than we have had in the procedures we have now. That's just gonna have to turn out, so we're monitoring that, too. If we see in that monitor that there are very specific reasons why things are not going as they were intended and wanted and agreed with those involved, then we obviously need to take further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u117	Mrs. Fox, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u118	That is really the category I was just talking about, namely that we are suffering the most from the suffering we fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u119	I'm not so afraid of that at all. I have one last question. You have seen that there can be all kinds of reasons. Could the result of such a weighting be that it is said: go ahead with the supply channel?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u120	That does not seem to me to be the right way forward. Of course, we need to look very closely at the added value and how we want to deal with our public media. Interests need to be weighed. All this must be done in a careful way. We are even obliged to do so under European regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u121	To make it even more legal: six months is not a fatal deadline. There is no question of a lex silencio positivo, so that the legal effect automatically occurs if no decision has been taken after no later than six months. Well, then that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u122	I have made it clear that it must also be clear that everything we are doing here, including the agreements that have been made, is aimed at actually completing the procedures within six months. Of course, it can be done sooner. There is now a bit of a hint that it will all take a lot longer. Mrs Vos' question is: what happens if that does not happen? I told you, there'll be no ax. You say that in a little more neat, legal terms. That's not what the law says. But it is important, precisely because there is now some concern among some members of the Upper House about how this is going to develop, to follow it and to see what the hiccups might be. It is good to discuss this with each other openly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u123	My question was therefore also shorter and just as purely legal. Let it be clear: the six months are not a fatal period and the legal effect does not automatically occur when the six-month period expires.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u124	At least that's not how we arranged it in the law. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions that have been asked. I thank your Chamber for inviting us here today to defend this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u125	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u126	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I will start with the legislative proposal 35042, Amendment to the Media Act 2008 on tightening up the new service procedure, modernising procedures for the appointment of supervisory and administrative boards, modernising governance and clarifying the position of the Star, as well as technical improvements, including in relation to tasks of the Media Commissioner. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. I also propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. Finally, the bill 35453, amendment of the proposal for a law amending the Media Act 2008 to strengthen the new service procedure, modernisation of procedures for the appointment of supervisory and administrative boards, modernisation of governance and clarification of the position of the Star, as well as technical improvements, including in relation to tasks of the Media Commissioner. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote next week on the legislative proposal and on any relevant motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u127	Mr President, I would perhaps like to put the motion I tabled to the vote before the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-02-eerstekamer-9.u128	We'd like to hear that in the course of the week, well before the meeting. Then, of course, we'll honor that. We have now come to the end of the meeting. I would like to thank all the members and staff who made this meeting possible and wish you well at home.
