ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is General Financial Reviews. Once again, I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u2	First of all, I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. "Tell me who or what you want to tax, and I'll tell you what really matters to you." For me, for the Christian Union, the good life counts, a life in which we look at each other, in which we do not have to go deep into debt to learn and study and in which we share, contribute and adjust where necessary. We don't do that well in our beautiful country. If we have to tackle something, simplify it and make it fairer, that is our totally out of control tax and surcharge system. Maybe they are tough and technical for many, those taxes, but they are oh so decisive for our lives as individuals, as households and as societies. In addition to being more just, this complex system should be made more feasible and understandable, so that you know at a glance what you have left of €100 increase in wages and not, as at present, a well-introduced fiscalist should be able to calculate this, without surcharges and surcharges fear and thus with a higher minimum of living, a higher minimum wage and a smart basic discount, so that we can get rid of less pumping around and at the same time no longer let ourselves be governed by models, by static purchasing power figures that only tell half a story and by an annual blow to the broken fruit machine in August which the tax system is in the meantime. Because what we do every year with this August decision-making is really crazy. Take this year's modest purchasing power package. The purchasing power of low-income households had to improve a little and so the supplement button was turned. For single people the care allowance went up by €56 extra and for families the child-related budget from the second child with €55 extra. There, the bottom of the income building was also saved; at least, on paper, in the model of the CPB. There it is assumed that 100% of the people who are entitled to supplements apply for them all as an accomplished gay economist, which indeed, and rightly so, made the Minister of Finance still cut off when offering the Millions Note. He didn't trade the transactional gay economics for the relational gay co-ops for nothing in this room a few weeks ago, did he? And yet that man-made image of the gay economics is still the basis of a lot of policies, in this case leading to even higher increases, assuming that people from well-understood self-interest, bureaucratic and without fear of a government reclaiming them, will apply for them. But then the practice. Many people don't know the bureaucratic path. Many people forget to ask what they are entitled to, or worse, after the surcharge scandal they became afraid to charge a supplement at all, afraid that the government will come by later to demand it back cruelly. Yes, what do purchasing power plates and point clouds actually say that we can beat each other up with here in The Hague if at least one in six households does not apply for a supplement? Mr. Chairman. Clearly, this tax mess with an impossible surcharge system is bothering me. Ultimately, in addition to a heart-to-heart government, this is the underlying cause of the childcare allowance scandal, because the minimum wage is too low, which means that there are several hundred thousand working poor people in our country, because the minimum level of living is too low and, above all, children's schemes are too sober, which means that almost three times as many children grow up in poverty as older people live in poverty. I hope that there will be a majority in this Chamber which has the courage to change that thoroughly and fairly, without being held hostage by model labour supply elasticities from the otherwise highly respected CPB model room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr Van Dijck with his last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u5	Yeah, last question. I share a great deal of the concerns of the Christian Union, but my question is what you have done about it over the last four years when you were on the buttons. Because I've been hearing this from the Christian Union for 15 years, and you've had government participation a few times now. Either you just let it run over you and you're happy to have two or three males in box-K, or you're going to stand up for those people you're gonna lance for right now and change something for those people. I don't see it. I don't see any result of that government participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u6	Firstly, the March election programme this year was the first election programme in which the Christian Union wrote down instantly: the surcharge system must be removed and we must thoroughly reform the tax system without any surcharges and with a higher minimum of living, a higher minimum wage. We didn't write that in 2017 in our election programme. It is therefore logical that, four years ago, this was not the case in the negotiations, and it is now. This has not to do with what we have been able to fight for each other in recent years, but it has to do with a changed understanding, with a deeper understanding of the need for greater reform of our tax and surcharge systems. This was really the first time in the past year, after we have worked on ideas in recent years to achieve a better system. So that's the direct answer. At the same time, we have not been idle in recent years, where great injustices were threatened by, for example, a greater gap between one and two-earners, not to let that gap get much bigger. That's what our commitment was for. And now our stakes are focused on those surcharges, because that has to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u7	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. That this Chamber can change a bit, we showed during the General Political Reviews of two weeks ago. With almost 3 billion euros the largest financial conversion ever made at an APB. Of course, I understand it as colleagues who see remodeling as an encouragement to get even further because the glass would still be half empty. For the Christian Union: the glass is half full. With conviction, we can support the present budget. Not because everything is so fun and not because it shouldn't happen anymore, but because there's a lot that's good. For example, there is investment in climate and energy transition, for example in the isolation of poorly isolated houses with the launch of the National Insulation Programme. Steps are being taken to reduce the rapidly rising energy bills in such a way that switching from gas to electricity becomes more attractive for citizens and businesses. Finally, access to justice for people on low incomes is being restored. There is also money allocated to security and defence. The salaries for nurses and for girls and masters go up. More affordable homes can be built and the rental tax goes down by a total of 831 million per year. At the same time, mentioning that last measure is pressing me with the noses on the facts. The glass may be half full, but we're not there at all. Despite the largest reduction since the establishment of the landlord's levy, this charge has been the unheard of practice of falling higher than estimated. To make a long story short, we just have to get rid of it completely. We need to use this money to build affordable houses, to renovate too often poorly maintained porch flats, to isolate drafty, humid houses where people live on low incomes, but with high energy bills. That is our commitment to the coalition negotiations that are now finally underway. Of course, the restoration of the old Dutch popular housing tradition requires much more, first and foremost that we stop the financialization of housing with the mortgage interest deduction and so on. Of course, many, fast and affordable buildings must be built for the homeless, young people and the elderly. Think of flex houses, for example. In short, use the Housing Impulse as a smart lever for fast and affordable building, from large cities to small villages. Is that what the Cabinet's gonna do? The Minister can easily answer this question in the affirmative, but I hope he will do the same to my next question on the National Real Estate Company. Or should I say the State Sales Company? I really do not understand why, on the one hand, the cabinet is encouraging affordable housing with housing incentives and tax reductions and, on the other hand, it is using its own land business as an investor for whom housing cannot be expensive enough. We have talked about the planned construction of 5,600 houses in this Chamber on the former airport of Valkenburg. What I am about to say is also true for other housing projects, such as Karelspoort in Eindhoven. I do not understand why the Minister, at a time of great housing shortage, and especially the need for affordable housing, allows the national real estate company to first sell land to project developers, instead of spending it on long-term housing, which could significantly reduce the price of housing, and secondly, it seems so conservatively calculated in the land exploitation that more than 60% of the houses to be built will be more expensive than five tonnes and a part, 10%, even more expensive than 2 million. I really don't follow that. Many municipalities without their own land struggle to build enough affordable homes. The Empire with its own real estate company turn with the conservative calculation of income the last euro from a piece of land, while own land is the most logical place to build relatively many affordable homes. After all, where is it simpler to realize social housing than on own land? Where is it more logical to build affordable rental and purchase houses than on own land? If necessary, put a part of the housing impulse into it, but even better: settle for less efficiency. The cabinet writes that the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf must be a lever for change, that it will make an important contribution to social challenges such as housing. Why do we make the granting of the Housing Impulse conditional that at least 50% of the housing should be affordable, but do we not make this requirement to the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf? Where's the gay co-ops at this government real estate company, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u10	The Christian Union has shown quite a lot of courage in recent months. This has also led to results. Together, the Christian Union and the Socialist Party have ensured that salaries in care are raised and that this increase is paid out of the income tax. I now hear that Mr Grinwis has another good point of view: the landlord levy should be removed. Of course, we agree on that. He then referred to the negotiations at the formation table. I also asked the same question to the CDA, D66 and the VVD. They all say: we all have to look at it in its entirety. Do you know what would help with the integral viewing of this at the formation table? An approved motion from the House of Representatives. So is Mr Grinwis prepared to show courage again and wipe that landlord's tax off the table now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u11	The Christian Union is heartily prepared to show courage by negotiating with the people at the table to get that landlord's tax off the table, for example, so that housing cooperatives can have room for affordable housing, for isolating poorly isolated homes, for renovating drafty homes. There is, of course, the tension at the moment. We all know that on the one hand four parties are going to negotiate to see if they can reach a coalition agreement and reach a number of agreements on important issues, and on the other hand the budgetary procedure continues here. We made a wonderful appointment a few weeks ago. The Christian Union has indeed shown courage. I am going to show that courage again, but now at the negotiating table in the first place. So I'm gonna put my cards on the table with our stakes, but we're gonna try to cash them in at the negotiating table. I understand that my colleague says: it would be helpful if we had a good motion for support. But I have a very good election program and that is a fantastic support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u12	Last question, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u13	This method really looks like the old administrative culture. It's really not very different from what we've seen over the past decades. Now four parties are gonna negotiate and look at things in their entirety. I see Mr Grinwis disagrees with me. Okay, let's put it this way and give these parties the benefit of the doubt: the landlord levy is so politically loaded and the housing is so complex that it needs to be viewed in its entirety. But then I take another example: the energy tax. Super-squeezing right now. People are faced with a huge increase in the gas bill; especially gas has become super expensive. If you look at how much tax the industry pays on gas and how much tax families or households pay on gas, you can see that there is a factor of 30 between those discs, between the highest and the lowest disks. That's unfair. Can we at least straighten that out? That is not politically loaded at all. We all want to ensure that families do not pay blue to the gas bill, so we can solve that now. Or should that also wait for those four parties, which hopefully will come out soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u14	The Hermans motion also included 500 million for a lower energy bill. This concerns 375 million for an increase in the tax relief energy tax and a reduction in the ODE on electricity in the first disc, and 125 million for a reduction in the ODE on electricity in the second and third discs. That's literally in the motion. If more needs to be done in the short term, I am very curious about how the cabinet is dealing with this, because at the moment the cabinet is looking closely at how the energy price is developing. The problem seems to be getting bigger and worse from day to day. This is, of course, due to a geopolitical cause at the moment, namely that Putin is holding the gas tap very well and not opening it wide. Whether this is a structural or a short-term issue, we need to look at it. Looks like a short-term issue. Then it also seems logical to me that the government should look in the short term to see if another step is needed for the energy bill. Structurally, this Chamber decided two weeks ago to lower the energy bill, especially via the electricity route. This is not only good for dampening the huge rise in energy prices, but also an incentive to electrify.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u16	In a sense, Mr Grinwis also mentioned rooflessness and homelessness, which I already had some questions about in my contribution. There is an Action Programme Roof and Homeless Youth 2019-2021. That wasn't settled in the coalition agreement. Roof and homelessness increased very quickly, especially among young people. The action programme was a very successful programme. It saw at a three-year period, with occasional money, that it would become structural if we had a new coalition agreement. There is no government agreement, so next year there will be no more occasional money for that action programme. That is capital destruction, because everyone agrees that we must also take structural measures. Does Mr Grinwis agree with me that we should ask the Minister of Finance to find a solution here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u17	I saw the Minister of Finance listening well, so I assume he will come up with a good answer in his term. As far as I am concerned, the growth in the number of homeless people has been alarming in recent years, especially in the last ten years. It has actually been a gradual growth. This has to do in some cities with, for example, the migrant workers we do not house properly. In other cities, the weather is mainly related to young people who cannot find a roof over their heads. Every year, the Empire gives approximately EUR 385 million to municipalities for social care. In recent years 200 million has indeed been put on top by Secretary of State Blokhuis in order to make up for this huge backlog. I understand that is indeed a success. I also understand that it has taken great steps and that there is not really a need to make that programme structural. Additional resources may be needed to rebuild common dormitories in those last few municipalities. After all, these dormitories are not really humane. So I see Mr Snels' point, but I am also very curious about the Minister's views on this. For example, if part of the 200 million remains on the shelf this year, my appeal is to the Minister to ensure that that part can be taken to next year. Municipalities will also have to work on it next year. And if there's anything more you need? We need to take a closer look at that. There is a structural set of almost EUR 400 million to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u18	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK. The messenger was just faster than you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr President, thank you for your support and the rest. I have a question about those energy prices. Is that a cyclical issue or is that a structural one? We're gonna have to take a look at that. In the meantime, we can see that other countries are taking other measures. My question is: shouldn't we like the Netherlands? The cabinet has 375 million. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat is omgerekend €46 of €47 per huishouden.]] That's a bit of a cloth for the bleeding. It's just going really fast right now. The gas bill's already ten times as high. Shouldn't we look at the Electricity Act, Article 95b, or the Gas Act, Article 44? Those laws offer opportunities to maximize that price increase. Would that be an option?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u20	The Christian Union is also deeply concerned about the enormous, rapid price increases. Yesterday, I believe, the price was €118 per megawatt hour, which is seven to eight times higher than a year ago. At the same time, at the beginning of the corona crisis, we saw a rapid fall in prices. Only, since we're recovering a little from the corona crisis, you can see that Russia, Gazprom, is holding the tap a little tight, which makes that price skyrocket. There's an inelastic supply and there's an inelastic demand, so that price is moving up. The cabinet has a lot of insight into this with all its knowledge, skills and officials. My call is to look at this very carefully. I think we need to act quickly if it goes further and stays so high in the coming months. Because something has to happen this winter, not only when it comes to the question of how to get gas storage places and so on, but also when it comes to how to deal with the energy bill. This will cost hundreds of euros. I very much agree with Mr Azarkan. I do not know whether this should be solved in a structural manner by introducing even greater reductions in the energy bill through taxation. But that perhaps what is needed occasionally, because it is too extreme at the moment, the Christian Union is open to that. But I am very curious to see how the cabinet looks at this, because that is what has been going on in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u21	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr. Chairman. The King told us in the Throne speech that we are living in a transition period, in a time of great transitions. And the biggest is without doubt the transition from a completely fossilized to a fossil-free economy. There is much to be said about the financial frameworks and the tax bases below. Those foundations part of it erodes away. Think about car mobility. Soon the last fossil car will pay the total billions in excise duty. At least that is the consequence of how the growth of electric cars and the associated loss of excise duty are now dealt with. That is quite bizarre, Minister of State, apart from the fact that this underlines the need for the introduction of mileage pricing as soon as possible. At the same time, there is no cock crow to where the higher auction revenues of ETS rights remain, which almost unnoticedly cheer up the EMU balance. Maybe that's another source to occasionally do something about the energy bill. Or think of the higher VAT revenues due to the rapid increase in energy prices, while on the other hand there is a risk that money will remain on the SDE shelf because of the smaller, uneconomic peaks. In short and well, we are in these times of free borrowing and spending tens of billions as if it is nothing and at the same time times with major transitions in terms of climate, nitrogen, mobility and housing, looking for new budget anchors, with a logical handling of expenditure, with an investment character and with a sound foundation that can withstand a transition blow. My question is: what is the view of the Minister and the Secretary of State on this? And that was also my final question in the first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. There's one more question. That is also the last question from Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u24	I'm pretty good with the half-full glass too, you know. That's all good. It's also a nice attitude to life. But that doesn't mean we can't try to make the world a little more beautiful. I know that the Christian Union wants to get rid of this landlord tax and was very much in favour of the Housing Fund last year. That fund's gonna end. I would like to ask Mr Grinwis whether there are any possibilities in this respect, especially with regard to the housing budget, which probably has the support of the House of Representatives, but of which we still have to see in the First Chamber which group is voting in favour of it. Are there any opportunities to continue that fund and tackle house milkers? We have tabled a motion with GroenLinks to the general considerations on those three things: the landlord levy, the introduction of the house milkers' fine and the extension of the Housing Fund. Can we talk about these three things with the Christian Union towards the housing budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u25	The Christian Union is very sympathetic to all three of these things. The protection of tenants needs to be improved. Let's say a landlord's asking for too high a price. The landlord can only hear "you have to lower your price" as a ruling from the rental committee and that's it. There's no sanction on it. I feel like we should introduce it. I have already said something about the landlord levy in the debate. It's my ambition to get that way. But it's really part of the negotiations. I can imagine that the Housing Fund is part of that as well. At the same time, I have now asked questions about the National Real Estate Company. In my opinion, the National Real Estate Company can also act as a lever for affordable housing. So there are several roads that lead to Rome. In short, I will open this debate. At the same time, I know that when it comes to money, it is part of the negotiations. So I deal with this transparently, but also prudently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u26	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr President, it says nine minutes here, but it will be about five minutes. Mr. Chairman. If there is one period in which we have seen very emphatically that we people do not go through life as a gay economicsman for a sec, that is in the past year. Since Princess Day, the Minister of Finance also realizes that most people are not selfish profit hunters, but that they just need an income that they can normally live on and that they also consider other things important, such as each other, animals, nature and blue skies. From this year on, the Millions Note also shows the state of balance in the broad sense, prosperity in the broad sense. It's dangerously unbalanced. There are people in the Netherlands whose income is so low that they cannot live normally, or at least not without supplements. The surcharge disaster is still increasing every week. We're almost world champions of biodiversity loss. We are raw materials devourer and fence shutter in the field of renewable energy. Earth Overshoot Day fell three weeks earlier this year than last year. Mr. Chairman. The British economist Kate Raworth described the doughnut economy: the economy within the limits of the earth and above a certain social minimum, a healthy minimum. Our economy has grown across all the ecological and social boundaries of a healthy, sustainable doughnut economy. That's exactly what the Monitor Brede Prosperity shows us. It shows that our current economy cannot be sustained. That is not something the Animal Party has said; even the Prime Minister recognised this spring. I quote: "Because it's not a sustainable path now." Again, excuse on behalf of the Prime Minister for English in this Chamber. But that's what he said. It was an important milestone. Mr. Chairman. We use the prosperity of it later and elsewhere as doping for the prosperity of the here and now. During the sustainable speech on the throne, President Werner Schouten of the Young Climate Movement said: "While the IPCC is sketching increasingly blacker future images, while fierce forest fires and record temperatures dominate our summers, we continue to steal the future of young generations. We're stealing their future. We buy those in the present and call them gross domestic product, GDP." Let the Millions note be positive about the recovery of GDP. But what is recovery and for whom? Mr. Chairman. GDP should remain within the limits of the earth and above a social minimum in order to keep it viable. Does the Minister agree with this? Mr. Chairman. Counter-effective anti-climate spending is also climate expenditure, such as fossil support. In any case, can the Minister ensure that the Chamber receives an overview of all expenditure, but also of lost revenue for the extraction or use of fossil fuels, including through state participations and policy participations? And can he promise to include this survey in the Millions Note from now on? I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. The Court of Auditors and the Council of State call for integrated thinking, unbooted budgeting and accountability with a broad view of prosperity. The supplemental disaster, energy poverty, the climate crisis, they are just aspects of the same crisis, a wide prosperity crisis, with the belief in non-existent homines economics and the strength of economic growth as root causes. So the Minister agrees with the importance of linking these policy issues with each other? Mr. Chairman. The broad view of prosperity, others said that even though we actually don't see enough in the cabinet. Undoing the one issue, a climate mitigation, for example, through fossil subsidies that are larger. Dismantling development aid through tax avoidance via the Netherlands, even in 2009. Is the Minister prepared to integrate thinking and making a next step in the application of the broad concept of prosperity? Is he, in other words, willing to give the Monitor Broad Prosperity and the Climate and Energy Exploration, the KEV, the same status in the budget cycle as the Macro Economic Recognition? I am also considering a motion on this point. Finally, Mr President. Broad prosperity is not a challenge of the future, as the Millions Note writes. It is the obligation now to the future. Does the Minister not think that this is a much better task and is he prepared to take it over? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u28	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen... Oh, there is another question from Mrs Van der Plas, a very nice round. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u29	Yeah, I'd do that. Mr. Van Raan thought I'd get out of it easily, but there she was! I just had a question. You started in your speech about the supplemental affair. It is quite right that everyone should draw attention to this. I do not want to compare the two cases, but also in other sectors or in other groups of the population people are sometimes thrown away as fraudsters, without evidence, without proper investigation. As a result, there are also bankruptcies and there is also enormous suffering at the kitchen table. I would like to mention, for example, calf fraud. A few years ago, 7,000 dairy farmers were thrown away as calf fraudsters. Of the 7 000, 75 had not done a good job. There was also the case with the ghost pigs. According to your group colleague, there would be 4 million illegal pigs on farms in the Netherlands. Pig farmers have also suffered a lot, they have been thrown away as fraudsters, as cheaters, as cowboys. Also a lot of suffering, again not comparable to what happened in the supplementing affair, but it happens all the time. My question to Mr Van Raan is: will we agree on all these things where possible, or what comes out in a report, or what people think "that will not be good" that we will all just wait and see the facts before we talk about anything before there are any motions and mention them? I particularly ask Mr Van Raan because his party is often in the front line to condemn those people, but we will never hear from them again if nothing turns out to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u30	Of course, we share that starting point completely. So I would ask Mrs van der Plas to give us examples in which the Animal Party has done so, and of course I am happy to look at them. What you yourself referred to as 'the calf fraud' was obviously not. To be honest, I do not know that example well enough. I do know manure fraud, which has been proven: a huge scandal. You don't have to convict anyone until there's proof. I share that entirely with Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u31	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u32	I think we might share more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u33	Then I would like to ask Mr Van Raan whether we can work together on this and that we also monitor this closely from others. It is quickly said that people commit fraud. I am not going to go into it entirely now, but also in the case of manure fraud, there are cases where ticks are simply mischecked. That's also dealt with under fraud. We are not going to go into that here, because it is not an agricultural debate, certainly not. But why don't we have a cup of coffee about that together and see how we can handle it? I think that as a chamber outside we should give an example that you are not going to dive on top of everyone like a wild dog because there would have been fraud. That's actually my only question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u34	Yeah, I'm just a little scared of the wild dog showing up everywhere when I go out for coffee with Mrs. Van der Plas. But I'm happy to do it. We shouldn't consider people guilty in advance. That is, of course, the essence of what went wrong in the surcharge disaster. I totally agree with Mrs Van der Plas. Soy milk and no sugar.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u35	You make it very visual. Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u36	Okay. That's a waste of food, because after that, you're gonna have to throw away that soy milk again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u37	I think you can have a cup of coffee right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u38	You may sit down, Mr. Van Raan. I just wanted to say something about that wild dog. We shouldn't do that at my house, because I have a Mechelen shepherd. It's not wild and fake, but it barks like hell. That can therefore be understood as a wild dog. So we'll do it somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u39	Then that's cleared up, fine. We are witnessing a very nice contact. That's good to see. I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr. Chairman. The financial system is coming to an end. No market participant is prepared to take over southern European debt, which everyone knows will never be repaid. In order to prevent banks that have actually been bankrupt for a long time from falling down, the European Central Bank has in recent years bought up billions of European sovereign debt. In doing so, the ECB is indirectly responsible for the monetary financing of sovereign debt. This is expressly prohibited in Article 125 of the Maastricht Treaty, because it was understood that this would mean that we, the sparing northerners, would ultimately have to pay for it. Eventually, this house of cards will collapse. It can't be sustained. We live in a giant pyramid game, a bubble, a bloated bubble. The first signs of an inevitable implosion are already there. Inflation is rising; it has already been said. But believe it or not, in this rising inflation rate, the most important price increase, for most Dutch by far the largest monthly cost item, is not included. That's the explosive rise in house prices. As you know, rising house prices are not included in the inflation rate. For example, the inflation rate is, of course, artificially too low and the purchasing power figures are being proposed far too brightly. Cool country, right, Mark Rutte? Hence my first question to the Minister: will he ensure that from now on, and with retroactive effect, house prices are included in the inflation rate? The enormous increase in the money supply by the ECB is undoubtedly one of the main reasons for our very high house prices. In the graph I'm showing you now, you'll see the ECB's balance sheet. As you can see, in the last year and a half, since the corona crisis, it has doubled from 4 trillion to 8 trillion. So that's 4,000 billion more!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u41	Maybe we can make a copy of that A4 through the messenger, then we'll spread it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you. The debt crisis ten years ago has never been resolved. Instead, a new, much bigger bubble is blown in our housing market. This only buys time, because this bubble is going to erupt once, and that will be the end of the euro. What does the Minister do? Hence our second question to the Minister: does the Dutch Government have a back-up plan for the re-launch of the guilder as soon as the euro collapses? If so, can we get that plan? If not, why not? Can he still make that plan like he's gonna make it? Meanwhile, artificially low interest rates, a direct consequence of the ECB's buy-back programmes, have hit the Netherlands hardest of all countries in the euro area. We have this low public debt, and we have these reduced pensions. The absurdly low interest rates and rising inflation completely undermine them. Is that really so hard to understand? The fat Dutch pension pots are being robbed by the ECB. This was De Nederlandsche Bank writes about this in its annual report 2020, and I quote: "The ECB now has almost a third of the total European public debt on its balance sheet and has also become an important bank financier. This requires timely reflection on a gradual exit strategy." End of quote. You can hear it right: an exit strategy. Even De Nederlandsche Bank talks about it. I'll follow up on the quote. "The transfer of government debt to the ECB's balance sheet is explicitly prohibited in the Maastricht Treaty." I just said it. "Not only the greatly increased public and private debt, but also the increasing extent to which banks finance themselves through the ECB can make an exit from the broad monetary policy challenging." In other words, the ECB now has a third of the total European public debt on its balance sheet. State debt that will not be bought by any market party and which is therefore worthless, but which the Netherlands guarantees through the ECB. Of course, the ECB would have had to reduce interest rates drastically for a long time, but that is not possible anymore. Why not? Because the ECB has now made both governments and individuals addicted to these low interest rates with its broad monetary policy. Question to the Minister: Does he recognise that an exit strategy will be challenging? If not, why is De Nederlandsche Bank wrong in its judgment? If so, what is the Minister's plan if the ECB cannot abandon the low interest rate policy because it is too challenging? Can we get that plan as the weeding go? And if there is no plan, will the Minister watch quietly and patiently how our Dutch pensions and purchasing power are gradually but surely completely undermined by European inflation? All kinds of countries are facing immediate financial difficulties as interest rates rise, and so are individuals who have to refinance their homes. Does the Minister recognize this problem? And now that the ECB has been swimming in a trap of ultra-low interest rates, what does this mean if inflation continues to rise, as is now clearly the case? Are there still opportunities to prevent high inflation, or perhaps even hyperinflation? After all, raising interest rates has become impossible. What are these possibilities, according to the Minister? And what does the Minister think of the claim made by ECB President Lagarde that the high rise in inflation in the euro area would be temporary? What are the clues to this? In the meantime, our standard of living has also been cached backwards. A shortage of basic raw materials such as wood, copper and paper has arisen, leading to rising prices. Our next question to the Minister: why do you think this is? Why are global supplychains interrupted? Could that have something to do with the absurd, stupid and bizarre lockdowns? What essential raw materials has the supply in the Netherlands become uncertain? What's the Minister doing about this? A house, a first need for life, has in any case become priceless for people with a modal income in the Netherlands. Take a look at this picture. As you can see, the modal income has remained the same, that is the bottom line. It has barely risen since the beginning of this century, while house prices, the upper line, have risen like a rocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u43	Do you have any more sheets?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u44	No, this was the last one. In the past, the average price of a house was three or four times a modal income. Today it is ten times the modal income. How dare the government say that the Netherlands is doing well if Dutch people with a normal income can't even buy a house anymore? Many Dutch people live in the illusion of luxury: a flat-screen TV and an expensive smartphone, but no money for decent food and no money for a home. And what are the economic costs of these grotesque lockdowns? Can the Minister give an estimate of that? If not, why not? Cash money, with the coronahoax as its cover, seems to be slowly phased out. Can the Minister guarantee that Dutch can always pay with cash? If not, why not? Be honest about it. Tell the people. Say it in camera! Or take the energy poverty. A new word in our language. Because of the rapidly rising energy prices, countless Dutch families are literally in the cold this winter, because they can no longer pay the energy bill. This is due to the ludicrous climate policy, which includes CO, a completely natural and harmless substance that we exhale at any time and inhale those plants. Can the government let us know what the price-raising effect of this tax is? How many cents has a kilowatt hour or cubic meter of gas become more expensive on average? Yesterday, the gas price went through the magical limit of €100 per megawatt hour for the first time. That's eight times as high as it was a year ago. I repeat: that is eight times as high as a year ago! Why does the Netherlands not have a strategic gas reserve, like other countries? Mr. Chairman. Finally. This is, of course, a sham debate. It hasn't been about the economy or public health for a long time. There's a power grip going on under the guise of a pandemic. There must be a digital euro issued by the ECB. Cash money must disappear so that all your purchases can be traced. There will be a social credit system to see if you are a good citizen, and you will get a CO budget, because you will not be allowed to fly and eat meat. FVD, together with all the free spirits in the Netherlands, will continue to fight this. Hang on, 'cause we're gonna win! Moreover, I believe that this criminal apartheid card should be abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u45	Thank you, Mr. Van Houwelingen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Everyone who thinks about the relations of man to the good of the earth will be affected by the fact that often he who labours is poor, while he who goes through life empty bathes himself in abundance." These are words from the previous Liberal Prime Minister, Pieter Cort van der Linden. The current Prime Minister has his portrait in the turret. Cort van der Linden is undoubtedly an inspiration to him, but if he had lived, I suspect he would have difficulty with the state of affairs in our country. We have become a country where the feeling of Swiss life does not begin after a lifetime of hard work. So hardworking Dutch people, this system is not there for you, if you set the alarm early, go to work every day and as your social task then fulfills your social contribution, being taxes, pays. You've been tricked into our system. Because if you earn your money in the Netherlands as a postman, nurse or attorney, it doesn't matter if you earn less than modal, modal, or more than modal. However, if you earn your money by, for example, owning several properties in Amsterdam and ripping in €250,000 in rent income, you may hardly pay taxes. And if you are good at puzzles, you can pay such a sloppy 10% less tax because you use the funbox, box 2, smartly. If you are in that situation, you may also use other constructions to pay less tax. In the General Financial Reviews, I do not want to argue against high incomes or large assets. What I do want to say is that labour needs more wages and capital or rents to be taxed more. At the moment we see that the opposite happens: labour is heavily taxed, while power is hardly taxed. With this I come back to the words of Cort van der Linden, namely that he who works is poor, while he who is empty can bathe himself in abundance. And that is unjust. I think Mr Hammelburg has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr. Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u48	I'm a little confused. The position I have just heard from Volt on how to deal with taxes is also the position of D66: less on income and more on ability, and above all fairer to tackle social inequality. But I also heard Mrs Gündoğan interrupt before the suspension about a tax plan to weigh up 35 or 40 billion shifts, actually. That would be a burden increase for families. So I'm a little confused. Perhaps Mrs Gündoğan can shed some light on this, because I think this is a contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u49	That's not a contradiction. I have here a table of Mr Cnossen and Mr Jacobs. That's an example inspired by them. I do not necessarily say that we should accept their proposals for a different arrangement of the tax system, but I thought it was a very intelligent proposal, how they calculated it. They say that in box 1 capital can mainly be taxed on own property, and that is in line with how, among other things, DNB, the IMF and Europe propose it. Then you're just gonna get more taxes from box one. But I'd be happy to share that table with you. This was not made by me, for I cannot do this kind of thing; it is beyond my head. But I like to absorb that kind of knowledge. That's more my position in the game, I'll say. Mr. Chairman. We often talk about public debt and responsible budgetary policies, but what would Cort van der Linden have found of all these debts in our country, which, in the long run, will only make us less free. Then I'll come to our debts. We are faced with climate debt, an education debt, a home debt, an opportunity debt, a labour debt, a productivity debt, an innovation debt, a health debt, and then I fear I have not even been complete. These are debts that have only been incurred in the last ten years and that will soon have to be paid off by young and future generations. Take the climate debt. Like the sovereign debt, we also pay interest here, albeit in the form of floods, washed away fertile soil, hunger, migration and diseases. DNB President Klaas Knot also pointed out recently that the costs of climate change are going to be significantly higher than the investments needed to combat climate change. The Council of State writes in its opinion on the Millions Note that the climate issue does not reflect the urgency of the issue. So it needs to be more ambitious. Mr. Chairman. Look at the education and innovation debt. Education has a yield of 8%, calculated professors Bas Jacobs and Mirjam of Prague. If education is good and you invest in it, then it pays out through a thriving economy and better health. Does the Minister see this? If so, why don't we see that in the Millions Note? Because what's our education like? We are in a poor sixteenth place of all OECD countries. We have had the report by Mr Rinnoy Kan on the table about the shortage of teachers for 14 years, which we have done little about. We are throwing money out of the National Education Programme, while everyone in education country says: with occasional money you do not solve structural problems. And what about investment in innovation? Investing in innovation leads to economic growth. Being penny wise, pound foolish in this does not seem intelligent to me and my group. Can the Minister indicate whether he, as a minister, wants to drive the future earning model in the Netherlands by speeding up the achievement of the Lisbon objectives? And then: 220,000 Dutch don't live, while they work hard. I am thinking of a working mother who explains to the NOS that she had to choose which of her two children was allowed to play sports. Even though she went to work every day, there wasn't enough money to get both her children to work out. 220,000 working poor, these Dutch work hard, but barely or not come around. They're the backbone of the country. They clean hospitals, deliver mail or drive taxis until deep into the night. Then it is not to be digested that when we ask in the Chamber for more salary for our teachers or caregivers, we must move heaven and earth to achieve that. And I haven't even talked about energy poverty yet. 650,000 people who fear the bill this winter, because it is likely to fall eight times higher than last year. In the meantime, I've been overtaken by the facts. Was it only €100 per megawatt hour yesterday, today it has become €160 per megawatt hour. This is really weird. Mr. Chairman. Opportunity inequality is already beginning in the cradle, recently revealed research by the Erasmus School of Economics. In particular, learning disadvantages and overweight were seen more frequently in children of parents with the lowest incomes than in children of the richest parents. As early as four-month-old babies, you're overweight with those who have poor parents. And in 14-year-olds, that difference goes up to a quarter of the children who grow up in poor families, as opposed to 10% of children with rich parents. Fifteen percentage points difference! Where your crib is, it matters. Children born with tins or wooden spoons in their mouths suffer from poverty. There's nothing romantic about turning a dime into a dime, because the odds of becoming a dime are small and in the meantime you can fight the statistics for a lifetime. A society that chaines its children to poverty and that places children with learning disadvantages and health disadvantages through poverty is not a free society. As the old liberal Van Houten fought and made the Child Law possible, so we too must work for all our children. Only then will we repay our educational debt. Every time you want to spend more to tackle poverty and to prevent children from going to school without breakfast, you are asked again how to pay for it. Anyway, I have said it a few times: fortunately we have very intelligent people in our country, such as professors Sijbren Cnossen and Bas Jacobs. If we take their advice, we will raise EUR 39.8 billion more by reforming boxes 1, 2 and 3. That's almost 40 billion euros. This money can be used incredibly wisely for education, research, innovation, digitisation, productivity, climate, et cetera, et cetera. Is the Minister prepared to commit himself to this and, if so, how? But the old liberals introduced more, so did the Housing Act. I call three liberals, Goeman Borgesius, Pierson and Cort van der Linden. Living was not seen by the old liberals as something for them with excess or jubilee notes. Living was seen as a necessity and the Housing Act was meant to lead to, I quoot: lifting the moral inferiority of workers. I think about those liberals when I think about how our housing market should look better. People should not feel less, because they do not have access to the housing market. It is time for us to pay our house debt, and that is why we need to make sure that the Blackstones of this world finally pay taxes. The tax difference between buying and renting should also be addressed. Fortunately, Mr Cnossen and Mr Jacobs make perfect proposals for this. So I'd like to say to the minister: curl around it and run it. Then it's our chance debt. It's so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u50	Thank you. Before you may continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u51	I didn't notice this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u52	It's okay. It's okay. I just didn't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u53	I just didn't see it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u54	We'll keep each other in balance, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u55	I'll just take a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u56	A sip of water is always good when you stand there for so long. About the tax plan and the extra 40 billion we could raise. It is in the pass-through of the election programme of the Labour Party, but Mr Nijboer also referred to a burden increase of 40 billion. He says, "We'll pick it up from the business community." Sure, says Mr Nijboer from the audience. That is an honest story and I would therefore like to know from Mrs Gündoğan about the 40 billion she is proposing. What it is proposing is an increase in the burden, and the question is: where should it strike down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u57	I'll get the tables. What they do in the estimation of the revenue from the change in the system is to compare the present system with theirs. In box 1 they will raise almost 25 billion extra, in box 2 over 9 billion and in box 3 over 5.5 billion. Together, this will yield 39.8 billion. They do this in box 1 through the rental value of their own house, mortgage debts, capital gains and so on. I will be able to share it all with you later, but it is de facto simply that ownership of its own property will be taxed more than it is now. That's just gonna make the treasury money in box one. In box 2 we are going to make sure that we seal the meshes, so that it becomes less a fun box. In box 3, among other things, we will tax the rents, such as those of the pawnshops.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u58	I understand very well, don't I? D66 has also said a few words about the mortgage interest rate deduction. I think Mr Klaas Knot is doing the same now. D66 has been calling this for a very long time, but what Volt is proposing now is a bit wider and a bit bigger than that. It's just a burden increase of 40 billion. That's a big deal. That's not free money. Volt now says, "Yeah, gee, we can pick that up extra." That's a pretty big confession. That means something for Dutch incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u59	Yes, you say that very well, but in the end, I think it's just a waterbed effect, Mr. Hammelburg. I think you agree with me. We have invested so little in this country for so long that we are lagging behind in education. I call that an education debt. A very large proportion of our children are therefore now low-literate and difficult to cope with. We have failed again with our innovation index. If you just look at the growth potential of the Netherlands, after 2023 we are moving further away. I think you agree with me that there are two types of expenditure: expenditure that you have to do to maintain your infrastructure, for example, and expenditure that will be paid in the long term. I think that this EUR 40 billion can be used very usefully. It is not a carte blanche or a credit card with the message: do whatever you want. I would like to see it again to settle our debts or to settle our future accounts in good time, as in the case of climate debt. Again, tackling the climate now is cheaper than solving the climate problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u60	Mr Hammelburg's final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u61	Yeah, last question. I have just said in my own contribution that tackling the education crisis, the climate crisis and the housing crisis is indeed costing money. I also indicated that we should have a review of the tax system in order to tackle social inequality. But that's different from an increase of $40 billion. That's a lot. Again my question, and that is the last question I can ask Mrs Gündoğan: how do you see it? Do you really want to leave that with the households? The Labour Party simply says quite honestly: we want to put that down in business. What does Volt say about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u62	Volt is considering it, but I repeat: this is the proposal by Mr Cnossen and Mr Jacobs. We're charmed by that. So it's not "what do you call it?" It is a weak way of hiding behind their proposal, because I would not have put it forward. I am particularly concerned about the fact that we are just thinking about how there is money. There are no taboos. For Volt that is at least the starting point. We would like to talk about whether it should be more for households or more for business, or whether it should be a combination of distribution, and that it should therefore end up with both. We're open in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr Hammelburg was a little faster than I was at the interrupting microphone. That's why he mowed away some grass at my feet. But, in fact, you simply want to raise 40 billion more money from the citizens. To be quite honest, I think you should move to a communist country if you have a moderate income or a bit of capital, because then you probably pay less tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u64	That's not true at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u65	Do you really think that the money can be used more usefully by the government than by companies or by citizens, who themselves know very well what they want to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr Ephraim makes a number of assumptions which are completely untrue. Firstly, this country of all OECD countries after the United States is the country with the greatest capacity inequality. That's one. Two. Statistically, the gini coefficient in the Netherlands is not correct, because income in box 3 is not included in the income. As a result, we are probably even worse off in the gini coefficient. I think it would be better if you looked at the figures rather than accuse me of chasing a communist state of salvation. No, I'm referring here to the old liberals. They really had a different Netherlands in mind than you. I think you just want to go to a libertarian society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u67	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u68	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, you're right, but I felt addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u69	I fully agree with Mrs Gündoğan, to her own surprise, because I certainly want a very different society than she has in mind. But I don't think we're gonna solve this today, so let's just save everyone's time, but let's keep to it: we agree to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u70	Well, you're entitled to your own opinion but not your own facts. I would therefore like to ask you to check your facts a little more carefully in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u71	I'm gonna stick with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u72	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u73	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u74	That, of course, is not entirely correct. I do not think we should deal with each other in this way in the debate. Mrs Gündoğan believes that only she has the truth. I'm gonna distance myself from that, as I think it's called here. And it's gonna be later, so I'm gonna stick with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u75	I wasn't talking about the truth, but I'll leave it at that. I'm just trying to understand the facts. Anyway, back to the old liberals and the House Act. I refer to three liberals, Goeman Borgesius, Pierson and Cort van der Linden. I told you all this before. Then it's our chance debt. It is so intertwined with poverty that it is high time to tackle poverty. It translates into many places. Poverty is unacceptable and undesirable. For example, the negative multiplier of poverty shows itself in the health debt. Poor people die six years earlier. Devoting to poverty reduction is not only a material duty, but also an intangible duty. The last one I mentioned was our productivity debt. For 40 years, wages have barely risen to none, but neither have productivity. To break this deadlock and make employers more competitive, we also need to invest in innovation that will benefit productivity. All this is a liberal story. What is the Minister prepared to do about all these debts? What does this mean for a subsequent coalition agreement? Last year, for example, a speech-expression by Mr Bruins was adopted in order to pass on a subsequent coalition agreement from the perspective of broad prosperity. How's the minister looking at this? I would like to remind the House that both Christian Union and CDA and D66 have signed this motion. How does the Minister look at the option of having the government agreement passed on to the second-order effects of our investments in, for example, education, labour market and climate? But it's more than that. It's also a geopolitical story. You snooze, you lose, it's adadium. Europe has already missed the boat with a lot of technology, such as at 5G, our ports and roads for a slump sold to China and also leans too much on the Americans. Together with other European countries, we must ensure that our growth is vital, robust and just. Only when we have and maintain our status internally, and above all our social, political and economic status, can we defend our way of life in the world. Not because we want to assume a hostile world, but because it is better to dictate the rules than to follow them. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the issue of tax avoidance. A point that the old liberals, who could not find themselves in unearned wealth but were in favour of clear inheritance taxes, would most likely reject. And a point with which the Netherlands has become a magnet for criminals and organized crime. Every step taken by the previous cabinet is a much-needed step, but we are not yet there. I call on the cabinet, following my colleague Dassen's motion, to work on, among other things, tackling tax avoidance by following the recommendations of the European Semester for the RRF. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm really gonna wrap it up. Greater thinking, smaller thinking, is the title of Mr.Tjeenk Willink's beautiful booklet. Let us therefore begin by reforming our tax system so that this country becomes the country of the hard-working people. For only then can he who goes through life empty become more poor, and he who labours pray in abundance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u76	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mr. Chairman. I'm also diving into history, but not as far as Mrs Gündoğan. I will talk in particular about finance ministers of Frisian origin, such as the current minister. As you all know, people in Friesland are sober and economical and can thus provide the foundations for the sound government budget that is needed at this time. In December 1981, Jelle Zijlstra retired as President of De Nederlandsche Bank. He has been in office since 1967. Zijlstra was previously Minister of Finance and Prime Minister. Before his departure the cartoonist van de Volkskrant, Opland, published his vision of Zijlstra. He compared him with Colijn and made Zijlstra responsible for the destruction of social services and all the plagues of Egypt. Zijlstra was economical and therefore a heartless villain, and became the target of progressive Netherlands. Nevertheless, I must say that Zijlstra's policy has controlled inflation and laid the foundations for a rapid recovery in the 1980s. Even more difficult was another Fries, Mr Duisenberg, who was Minister of Finance in the Den Uyl cabinet. The PvdA was then under the spell of the makeable society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u78	Still!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u79	Yeah, I heard that, yeah. Of course, that cost a lot of money. Also still... The natural gas benefits from Groningen, your province, Mr Nijboer, came in handy in The Hague. Groningen became a sort of colony of Holland. According to progressive Netherlands, the government budget had to grow faster, but Duisenberg demanded the 1% standard in 1976. The collective burden could only increase annually by 1% of national income. A brave act, I must say. I've always admired him for that. Duisenberg, from Friesland, of course always had to ride straight against the wind, because in Friesland you always bike with headwind, as I once noticed myself when I cycled the Elfstedentocht. That was a terrible task. It didn't end. Just wind, wherever you were.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u80	200 kilometers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u81	Yeah, something like that. 250 kilometers, from Sneek to Sneek and all the way around. Duisenberg was also denounced, like Zijlstra, but he prevented an explosion of public spending. He then became President of De Nederlandsche Bank and the first President of the European Central Bank. Mr. Chairman. In these times, fiscal conservatism is much needed. Government spending has risen sharply due to the pandemic and the idea of a makeable, this time green society. The budget increased by almost 5% this year. Public debts were rising, although the damage was also contained by the Minister in view of the circumstances. The Netherlands participates in the European Union's Restoration Fund of EUR 807 billion, in which it guarantees 46 billion for aid to southern Europe, among others. The current Minister of Finance is also of Frisian descent and he is in the same situation as Zijlstra and Duisenberg at the time. That means being economical against the spirit of time. It means returning to the foundations of sound public finances and, above all, stopping money bounces. We need to make the turn back to normal public finances. But the Netherlands stands for a wave of price increases related to a creatorable green society. I leave the feasibility of this aim in the middle. I don't immediately have an emotional judgment about it, but I'm just looking at the tax picture. And what do I see? The petrol price rises above €2 per litre. The excise duty is disproportionately high compared to other countries. Rising gas prices are driving up the energy bill. Here too, excise duties are high. Electricity becomes a luxury product, energy poverty becomes a concept. Since the Rutte I cabinet, collective burden pressures have risen from 35% to 39% in 2020. In France the figure is 47%. Is that where we're going? Migration is an increasing cost for the government budget. One asylum seeker costs approximately 1 million euros, including follow-on migration, according to dr. From the Beek. Savers are unfairly charged with a fictitious return on box 3. This is tax theft. Now, unexpectedly, the IMF comes up with the idea that owners of houses should pay tax on their added value in the prison of the tax system, namely box 3. So not only a property tax on savings, but also on home ownership. Who whispered that to the IMF in Washington? I know there's a lot of people living in Washington, but there's not gonna be a lot of people who know what box 3 is, so someone's behind it. Maybe this cabinet? In particular, it is calling for climate policy that leads to far-reaching expenditure, so to speak, 'you ask, we turn'. Check the cabinet formation. The Netherlands will thus contribute €1.3 billion to climate action in developing countries to reach a target of €100 billion. Are there criteria for that? Is there any impact assessment? I found a lot of support in what Mr Nijboer said earlier about the money. Where's it all going? Isn't it too much? Hasn't policy-making simply become the dumping of money into all kinds of sectors? It can't be like that. We in JA21 want fiscal conservatism. The chain reaction of higher prices, rising inflation and higher interest rates will lead to less purchasing power. Citizens are getting worse, because the correction that the cabinet has in store will prove insufficient. Inflation figures mask reality. Renting is not in the calculations and price increases of housing. Prime Minister Rutte said he doesn't believe in purchasing power cards. Me neither. They're self-deception exercises. Our economy is increasingly becoming the character of a planned economy regulated by the State, through a mess of levies and subsidies as we see now. With a planned economy, things are always going badly, and I have seen it with my own eyes in the Eastern Bloc, because enterprise is being replaced by subsidies and large companies are in the front line. Mr. Chairman. Tax conservatism is the compass on the road to normality: a more economical government that offers less burden, more freedom to undertake and does not leave ordinary citizens to their fate. The Netherlands wants to be a guide country and be an example everywhere in the world. That is part of the moralistic nature of our country. We are so busy abroad that we lose sight of the interior and the ordinary people who live there: young people looking for a home, elderly people who are afraid that their pension will melt away. Take asylum policy, the costs of which are increasing considerably. I would suggest that the reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands should be financed from the Development Cooperation budget. There are a lot of things in the budget that the government doesn't see very well. Take the large number of NGOs, the non-governmental organisations, active in many policy areas. Many receive so much government subsidies that they have actually become governmental organisations. Can't the cabinet go through that with a nice comb? I hear from formation discussions that a new cabinet funds of tens of billions of dollars are there we have already, money bounces for among others, again, climate policy and that outside the regular budget. A dangerous idea, because that leads to budgeting. I have seen it in Belgium, where that happened, that budgeting, in order to reduce the budget deficit and to cover debt formation. Moreover, the Court has no control over these funds outside the budget, as it were a budget outside the budget. No matter how low the interest rate, the money has to be repaid. And on that interest there is an upward pressure from inflation, because there is no free money. The remarkable thing is that the Netherlands guarantees 46 billion in the EU Restoration Fund, of which 24 billion are donations. We must then, like Germany, lend our own money for our own projects, but also for those in southern Europe who, like Germany, are facing growing quiet poverty. Perhaps the cabinet should set different priorities. The risk is that a majority of EU countries want to make the Recovery Fund permanent, including France. That should block the cabinet. In fact, a Restoration Fund that is permanent and issues so-called "restoration bonds" issues Eurobonds through the back door. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his intellectual honesty for admitting that last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u82	I just want to say that you've been through your time for a long time. Well, that'll run from your time for the second term. Let me warn you. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u83	I shall then proceed immediately to: finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u84	Yes. And then we have another interruption, but first you finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u85	Yes, I will. Finally, Mr President. I hope that the Minister will be in the shoes of his Frisian predecessors, Zijlstra and Duisenberg, and that he will opt for the 1% standard, the Duisenberg standard. I realise that this requires perseverance in a spirit of time that calls for expanding green budgets. That is why you must be able to say no in a society that always expects yes. A no is then a political dissonant. As you undoubtedly know, Zijlstra concluded in his memoirs After all that dissonants can encourage action and that a dissonant who can bring a solution can be a musical highlight. Minister, it's up to you now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u86	Thank you, Mr. Ephraim. There is an interruption by Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u87	Yes, a question for Mr Eppink
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u88	Sorry, Mr. Eppink. Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u89	That's the third time this has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u90	Yeah, that's right. I'm gonna wave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u91	I recognize you all. Let me return to the subject of prudent fiscal policy. I'll share that. At the same time, Mr Eppink said something about funds outside the budget. Where exactly does he get that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u92	That's what I get from the press, which talks about the formation talks. I'm warning you about that. I did not say that they are already there, but it has a very negative effect on the cohesion of the budget if you are going to make a budget outside the budget. So I advise the reformers or reformers not to do so, so that, when funds come, we in the House of Representatives have control over it and these funds cannot live their own lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u93	I'm gonna go right out of the blue now that you say, "Get out of the press." But the budget documents themselves state how that is to be done. We have a Mobility Fund, formerly Infrastructure Fund, and we have a Delta Fund. These are simply budget chapters that this Chamber will soon be able to amend and vote on. The big advantage of that kind of budget funds is that you can slide over annual instalments. Especially in the case of investments that are uncertain, this can be useful and such a fund can be a good vehicle. But these are just budget chapters like any other chapter, only with a slightly different character. We are equally concerned about this, so I do not think there is anyone in this house or in the cabinet who is proposing to settle matters outside the budget when it comes to the energy transition. That's what we do with the SDE. That is another budget chapter. So I think that Mr Eppink's concerns are superfluous and premature, and we are simply going to settle them in a very orderly way in a budget, either in a fund or in a regular chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u94	As a solution, I am thinking in particular of the Mobility Fund, so that we can keep a grip on it. So I warn against operations outside the budget that will make things worse. I am convinced that a finance minister from Friesland will not let that pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u95	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr. President, I had nine minutes before the first and second term, right? Yeah, eight minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u97	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr. Chairman. It's not what it looks like. Everyone has that feeling, for example when you see a beautiful bike in the window, but it turns out to have some rust spots when you get closer. Or if you walk down a mountain, and after such a long walk in the distance you see a beautiful castle or house standing, and when you come closer you think: there is a lot of overdue maintenance on it. Today we're talking about the state's housekeeping book. When we look at it from the sky, it's like everything's going in the right direction. However, I think that there are some strong comments on all these positive figures. That's what I'm doing. Purchasing power remains the same, but there are many families that are falling considerably. Our roads are nice, but there is a huge amount of late maintenance. Take a look at the Haringvliet Bridge. And so there are more coming. Many entrepreneurs can go back to business, but many entrepreneurs are still worried. The rise in public debt seems to be limited, but the rising cost of care hangs there like a dark cloud. In short, the outlook and the figures may look bright in themselves, it is not always what it looks like. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, an important motion was passed. We are very pleased with that. The Court has stated that a subsequent cabinet must take concrete steps to close the tax gap between a single earner and two earners. This is an important, but also much-needed, signal, because income families are lagging behind for long enough. That gap just needs to be closed. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister what he is going to do with this broadly supported motion. But measures must also be taken next year, because from a distance it seems to go well with purchasing power, but many families do not notice any of that in the wallet. The energy bill has been rising for years, and in the coming year even harder, fuel prices are rising, and saving is barely achieving anything. In other words, the bottom of the family wallet is in sight. My question is: how will the Minister ensure that families will see economic growth in their pockets in the coming year? Mr. Chairman. Another point about money is access to money. It is also very important, for citizens, for entrepreneurs and for charities. In recent years we have seen that more and more ATMs are closed or difficult to reach. My specific question to the Minister is whether he sees opportunities and solutions to improve access to cash. Especially in the last few weeks we see that you can't get coins in all those ATMs, unless you drive a long way. The deposit of cash by entrepreneurs has not become easy either. I'd like a few practical solutions to that. Mr. Chairman. As long as I'm with entrepreneurs, they've had a hard time over the last few years. Macroeconomic prospects are good, but here too it is not always as it seems. Heavy turnover losses, high tax debts and uncertainty about the future: it is more rule than exception. We say as SGP: give entrepreneurs the room to undertake. Watch out for burdens, my appeal to the Cabinet, but also to the Chamber. My question to the cabinet is whether the SGP is of the opinion that extra heavy burdens on entrepreneurs should not be raised. For entrepreneurs need a bit of certainty in this respect. Just increasing the income tax, as happened recently on a late afternoon to pay the high healthcare salaries, really doesn't help. In concrete terms, therefore, my question is: how is the cabinet going to ensure that no jojo policy for entrepreneurs will emerge in the coming years? Mr. Chairman. As out of nowhere a few weeks ago suddenly the speed on the A29 over the Haringvliet bridge had to be 50 kilometers per hour. That bridge was rattling. It underlines that the maintenance of our infrastructure is not going well. The General Court has long warned against increasing delays in maintenance, over-optimistic estimates and insufficient visibility of an actual task. And TNO indicates that there must be at least 1 billion euros per year. We have only seen this in a technical briefing from the Ministry itself; that is also substantiated. The Chamber has now adopted a motion from my hand asking the government to draw up a multiannual conservation infrastructure with a corresponding budget. As far as the SGP is concerned, this huge table of contents should not become the cuckoo cub that pushes new projects out of the nest of the Mobility Fund, because then we are even further away from home. In concrete terms, my questions to the Minister are whether he understands the importance of this and how he intends to deal with it properly in the long term. Mr. Chairman. I have a quote here: "It helps enormously to build buffers in your fiscal policy in good times." That might be a quote from me, but it's a quote from Secretary of State File Letter. He said that last week in the debate on the support package. In good times financial solidity is at least as important and perhaps even more difficult than in bad times, my translation of that quote is. I would like to hear from the Minister who can use the wisdom of the Secretary of State in this regard, which he believes should be the commitment of the cabinet in the coming years. Does he agree with the SGP that we should return to a government debt of about 40%? Because in Europe, people seem more satisfied with a 140% public debt. That has been mentioned by others as well. At this point I have the feeling that unfortunately it is as it seems. Many Member States do not seem to want to go back to the much-needed budgetary rules. This is perhaps logical, because many Member States have not complied with the rules in recent years. But, yeah, if everyone runs a red light, we're not gonna change the traffic rules either. Then you'll just get a fine. The document written by the Minister together with other countries is a solid piece of paper, which I would like to admit, but it is not yet entirely satisfactory. At the same time, it shows that the Minister is open to an adjustment of the rules. My question to the Minister is how he is going to ensure that these rules are only adapted in such a way as to increase the sustainability of public finances. Mr. Chairman. The public debt in our country, in the Netherlands, is also high. But that's not the only danger. We've got more. For example, care costs seem to become unsustainable. For years, the growth of healthcare costs has been higher than the growth of the economy. As a parliament, we have very little influence on this. There are now stacks of reports, warnings and solutions. Such a solution would be to better ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of care. Other instruments to control rising costs are also mentioned. Hence my question as to whether the Cabinet is prepared to identify concrete options including the settlement of accounts, which limit the growth of healthcare costs and improve financial sustainability. Because financial soundness is not only about next year's public debt, but also, above all, about the debt burden of the generation that comes after us. I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the General Political Reviews we saw the game played by the four coalition parties. They pretended to be receptive to all kinds of wishes from other parties. Then there was a motion by Mrs Hermans in which just as easily EUR 2.7 billion was spent. This is explained again today as "we are friends" and that they assume that the opposition parties will support them in this way. Machiavelli said it so beautifully: friendship acquired by money and not by greatness of spirit and noble character, one buys and does not possess. In recent years, we have always seen in the budgetary discussions that the Finance Minister said no to everything, because there was no money. The opposition's amendments were systematically ignored, because there was no money. If there were any motions, it was said "there is no cover." The Minister of Finance always says that an adjustment of the budget cannot be done, because that is contrary to the budgetary rules in the start-up note or that legal commitments have already been made with that money. In short, if we have to believe the Minister of Finance, there is really no money for it. At least until March last year, because then the locks suddenly opened. That's when everything was possible. Then suddenly there was 80 to 90 billion available. The Minister of Finance then said during the first corona debate: whatever it takes. That's what he said in the footsteps of Draghi. Whatever it takes, no matter how much money is needed, we are facing a major crisis and it just needs to be tackled. "Deep sacks," he said. That's right. When we asked from the opposition in the years before with our plans for care, education, nitrogen approach, climate, it was always "no." It's weird that you can do it one time and you can't do it the other time. Can the Minister explain this paradox again? Is it true that some problems are more important than others? Or maybe more urgent? And who's gonna decide that? A lot of people at home don't understand that. They look at this and say: why can we take out 90 billion in no time, but can we still not properly compensate the people who are victims of the premium crime? These people sometimes still send their kids to school without textbooks. I myself have a somewhat double feeling about the budgetary process that runs from March to September. I believe that this is happening in a way in which the Chamber is not sufficiently involved. Only when everything is settled and the money is distributed can the Chamber put an approval stamp on it. This often means that we in the Chamber can hardly make any adjustments. If anything is changed, it is often an agreement between the coalition parties to give some of their supporters a gift. We see in other countries that there is a real difference. The Council of State has also stated that there should be a greater role for Parliament in drawing up the budget. I would say to the future coalition: a new culture of governance, of course, also means that the House's budget law will have more hands and feet. Mr. Chairman. Let me look at the budget as it has been presented. I see the Cabinet's annual chest beat. Economic growth is high: in 2021 and 2022 together 7.4%. Unemployment is 3.5%. You could say that there is a friction unemployment. There are hardly any bankruptcies. The funding gap is within all limits and within all parameters. We have a huge economic recovery. "The Dutch economy is resilient," I hear everyone saying. Fortunately, the Spring 2020 horror scenarios, when the CPB predicted a deficit of 92 billion, are no longer in sight. The cabinet will, of course, present a good news show, but forget to mention that the taxpayer has almost fully financed this economic recovery with almost EUR 80 billion in aid packages. If we get such great economic growth, how come it never gets into the citizens' wallet? Moreover, when we look at purchasing power, we have learned that there is almost always a purchasing power hangover. That purchasing power is always disappointing. Probably going down again this year. I'm holding my heart. How is it that there is 7.5% economic growth, but that purchasing power is about zero? So you're not getting any better as a citizen. The Chamber is missionary and can, of course, vote in favour of an improvement in purchasing power. Is the Minister prepared to come up with proposals at the request of the Chamber to keep purchasing power at least in line with economic growth? If we make more money with each other, it can also go to the pockets of citizens. There is another point I would like to make, and that is that we have seen for 40 years that companies are paying less and less taxes. They are contributing less and less to public services. Citizens, on the other hand, are paying more and more taxes. According to the Central Statistical Office, the tax burden on large companies was 24% in 2006. In 2017, it decreased to 16,2%. That's a third off. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the people's housing. Much has been said about this, even during the General Political Reviews. Well, there's little about housing; it's just "the housing market" these days. That's why they're looking at it wrong. It's totally fucked up. Koophuizen has more than doubled in price since 2013. An average property costs €413,000. This leads to higher mortgages, higher housing costs and higher rents through the WOZ. There are people who just pay half their income so they have a place to sleep for themselves and their children. There is also another disadvantage: the power inequality in the Netherlands is increasing. There's a huge divide between that 58% that has a storehouse and the 42% that rents a house. And we also have 40,000 people who have become homeless. They don't have a home at all. In ten years' time, 236.000 social rental homes have been privatised under the Rutte Cabinets. They just went to the market. This is because the law was amended in 2017. The three Rutte Cabinets have completely derailed the housing market, as they call it. The question is what the next cabinet will do about it. It's for very few people to pay, if there's already a home. And without convincing action, there's no other way. Then what is to be done? Of course it's the landlord's tax. After the introduction in 2014, the production of social housing halved. So we're gonna have to get rid of that. There needs to be more central direction from a Ministry of Housing with checkable numbers. We need less farmland and more land for housing. The existing housing stock needs to be better distributed. This can be achieved by abolishing the cost sharing standard or by increasing the AOW for cohabitants. Current government policies contribute to the continuing dilution of the number of households. There are increasing numbers of single-person households. We saw it in Hoekstra's famous blue book. I would also like to talk about the energy market. I see my time is running out, but I'll think about that later. The energy bill goes up by about €500 to €600. It is interesting that we have said in the General Political Reviews that we are taking 375 million out of it. But that's barely 10%; that's €46 per household. The question is whether there is no other way. I have already indicated in an interruption that a non-market-compliant solution is being chosen in France, namely to set a maximum rate. We can do the same in the Netherlands. I am therefore considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with the pensions. That's really a big concern. They have not or hardly been corrected for inflation for 14 years. It cannot be explained that, during the biggest crisis we have had with each other, the pension fund has actually grown from 700 billion to 1 700 billion from 2008-2012 and the corona crisis. It's like a Dagobert Duck warehouse full of money. And we say to each other, "We're poor." This is due to the artificial calculation rate of 1%, while we see that the return over the last 30 years was 7%. Now we see that this ultra-low interest rate will be replaced by the project return in 2026, but that is too late. I'd really like to ask you if you can't do that sooner. Pensions can also be indexed in 2022 without the adoption of the new Pension Act. I'd like a response. On this point, too, I am considering a motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u101	Thank you. I hope you have enough time for the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u102	34 seconds in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u103	I was gonna say. That's gonna be a challenge. I give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the officials and directors for the documents. Well, that's a good thing to say. Indeed, a huge amount of reading food has been produced. It gives a lot of insight, but also a lot of questions. Four themes have been chosen within which to work: a financially sound Netherlands; a strong and sustainable economy; the Tax Administration in order; the surcharges. Mr. Chairman. A great deal has been said in recent months about the last two issues, namely the implementing agencies, the surcharges and all the things that are not going well there. I know that we are working hard to solve the problems and improve quality. Other colleagues are much more at home in that than I am. For the sake of time, too, I would like to focus on a few issues on the first two issues, namely a financially sound Netherlands and a strong and sustainable economy. Mr. Chairman. We've had an unimaginable contraction in our economy. It is good to see that we also have unprecedented economic resilience. This year, our economy is growing by 3.9% of GDP. This contrasts with the estimate of the Central Planning Bureau in March of this year, which was still based on an increase of 2.2%. Of course, the aid measures have to a large extent offset the impact of the recession. That's good. At the same time, we are seeing an increase in public debt. Among other things, the support measures, the extension of tax delays, but also with additional government loans to companies and a decline in government revenue, the government debt has increased considerably. Nevertheless, at 57.7% of GDP in the budget, we are still well below the average of the European standard. Mr. Chairman. That's my struggle right there. On the one hand, I do not think we should go beyond 60%. On the other hand, we still have a space of 2.3%. Corona has made a lot of sense to us, learned a lot and made a number of challenges even more visible. The cabinet has chosen to address these challenges. It has divided them into seven themes for which money is released. These challenges are, of course, in terms of improving the quality of education, equal opportunities in the labour market, a simpler payment system, living space, future-proof care, sustainable security and the climate. I would like to make a number of points on the agenda, such as the labour market. There is currently a huge increase in the Dutch labour market. We are facing a much greater demand for labour than supply can sustain. This can stagnate or limit economic growth. So we will have to think creatively with each other about a number of things. How can we get newcomers to work as well as possible? How do we get a higher employment rate for women? And for the large group of older people who come back to work more difficult than anyone else: how do we get the older people who are now looking for work to work? Mr. Chairman. People over 50 are not the weather cottage of the business cycle, which you put aside when the weather gets bad and you scream for when the weather gets nice and the economy turns full again. Older workers are valuable. They deserve to be treated accordingly. That is why I am in favour of the implementation of the Borstlap Committee's career plan in order to correct and prevent the issue of employability in good time. Older workers and older jobseekers deserve not to be discriminated against. So let's really do something about that now. Does the Minister agree with me on this? Building blocks 3 and 4 from the Borstlap report give room for this. To what extent has this been considered and is there a budget available to implement the opinions of the Borstlap Committee? Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, I believe that care is looked at in a rather limited way in the documents. It's mostly about cost control. I get that. That is also very important. But we are dealing with a huge problem on the labour market in healthcare. Mr Stoffer has just referred to it: there have been a lot of reports on it, but we must take very, but very seriously, the call of the care staff to do something about the workload. I read that the cabinet wants to take on matters such as better coordination of care, innovation in the way of working, promoting job fun and also reducing the workload through good employership. That's good. But I think that, given the scale of this problem and the diversity of the market, central direction is really essential. That is why I propose that I do so tomorrow in the Committee on Labour Market Policy in the care sector, in order to develop an integrated master plan to solve the shortage in the care sector in particular. There is an action programme on Working in Care, but we need to look much more comprehensively. In the master plan to be developed, working conditions, contracts, laws and regulations, finance, education and care must come together under national direction. This requires an investment, but in view of the ageing population and the lack of sufficient care staff, we are quickly approaching the ceiling in terms of care capacity. Actually, we've already achieved that. What does the Minister think about this? I would also like to invest a lot more money in prevention. In view of the findings during the corona pandemic, but also in view of all kinds of studies that have indicated the importance of healthy life for many years, it is crucial to focus on prevention. I have said it before: I think the current Prevention Agreement is a little weak, with too little ambition. In the Millions note, there is only one paragraph devoted to prevention. Does the Minister agree with me that we need to look again at the objectives of the Prevention Agreement and that the necessary finances should be seen as an investment rather than a cost? My question on living has already been asked by Mr Snels, so I shall skip it. I would also like to address an important concern for my constituents: the purchasing power of pensioners. They've been screwed for years. The good news is that the transition from the financial review framework to 2026 does not, or hardly does, provide for reductions in pensions. But the bad news is that no indexation is foreseen in the coming years either. Also next year, the purchasing power of pensioners will not improve. In fact, because of the rising costs for energy, groceries and more expensive local charges, many pensioners will feel it in their wallets. Does the Minister agree with me, as the outgoing Secretary of State for Social Affairs indicated, that older people have long been lagging behind in purchasing power? And if so, what will be done about it? I also made a suggestion yesterday, namely to bring forward the rules that will apply in the transition period towards the new pension system. Thus, the introduction of those rules as of 1 January 2022 instead of as of 1 January 2023. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. I am very sorry, but there is also a committee debate on labour market policy in the care sector tomorrow. I'll be there. I am therefore unable to attend the second term of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u105	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u106	Didn't I ask for a little more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u107	The clock will be reset. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u108	You gonna be okay? Thank you. Dear MPs, rulers and residents of the Netherlands. Today we are talking about the General Financial Reviews. The billions are flying all over us. As representatives of the people and decision-makers of the budgets, the outgoing cabinet gave us a generous extra financial space of EUR 1 billion, according to the cabinet, to do something nice with it. For the average resident a huge amount, but it is only EUR 1 billion compared to EUR 334 billion in income. So crumbs. 0.3% of the budget. In the meantime, however, the amount has increased to EUR 2 billion. Lower the landlord's tax a little bit, but don't abolish it. Slowing down maintenance delays in the Defense Department, but not resolving them. Lower the household energy bill a little bit, but not take into account the large increases that are currently taking place. The energy bill becomes priceless for middle income. One year ago an average four-person household paid €507 on an annual basis for gas and light, excluding taxes and charges, has now risen to €1,229. This reported onlinecompare gaslicht.com this week. Dear inhabitants of the Netherlands; long live the strong economy, and o, we only look at the treasury, not at your wallet. Despite all the fine words about a strong economy, the ministers keep their hands on the cut, just at the points that hit people in the street. The ordinary, hard-working citizens. The pensionados with an AOW's and a small pension, which has not been indexed for years. For decades the snot worked in front of the eyes and built our country, and then smell for thanks. Super economic growth rates, but in reality more expensive messages, a higher energy bill, sky-high prices for petrol, crooked to pay your rent, and municipalities and provinces that do have to raise the housing costs in order to get their own budgets around. The citizen as a milk cow. Then the plans with our farmers. While the WHO and the UN Food Organization, the FAO, have been calling for a long time because global food security is at risk, nearly 1 billion people are already suffering from hunger, parties want to trade fertile agricultural land here for ponds and other nature. The fact that farm nature is also nature is never mentioned anywhere. But peasant nature is also nature. And the land provides us with good, safe, sustainable, affordable and always available food. The agricultural sector also provides the Netherlands with an economic contribution of over EUR 100 billion. On farmland, where ever good, nutritious and protein-rich grass grew, natural pastures managed by Natural Monuments can no longer be mowed for free by farmers, because they are full of knight acidification. So that's not suitable for cows. Protein rich and healthy grass for cows should be brought to the landfill, because the field is full of weeds. That grass is inedible and indigestible for humans, but thanks to cows it is transformed into high-quality nutrients, in the form of milk, from which yoghurt, cheese, butter and cheese can be made. That weed is good for the birds, but not suitable for food production. It is also much more expensive to mow, because Natural Monuments have to do it themselves. If you tell this to the starving people in the world, they won't believe you and they'll make you look crazy. Mr. Chairman. 0.3% of the population makes the food for the other 99.7%. These 0.3% are our farmers, growers and growers, and our fishermen, not to mention. That percentage gets lower every year. With future plans, that rap gets even lower. While the alarm clock is sounded due to the need for food security, our food makers must give way. EUR 1 billion has been earmarked for this purpose. This is the same amount that Dutch municipalities lack in their budgets and with which they could maintain roads, keep the library open or green the city. That is EUR 1 billion, which means that our food makers, who produce in the most efficient and therefore sustainable way and who can export their knowledge to teach other countries how to do so, must be bought out or expropriated or, in the most extreme case, to take away their licence. But what if the farmers, as has been said, are those sectors contributing EUR 100 billion to the e.g. the Netherlands? Then who's gonna take care of our landscape? Our landscape, with bulb fields, cows in meadows and ditches, attracts millions of tourists every year, spending tens of millions of euros in our SME businesses, such as catering and retail. That landscape looks like this through and thanks to our farmers and gardeners, and is managed by them. In many cases this happens together with local nature associations, who also fear the rapid pace with which farmers disappear. Who's gonna run that landscape later? The government? And who's gonna pay for that? The burger? And how much is the citizen going to cost, we ask the Minister. Is that calculated? Is all this also mentioned to the public when talking about buying out, expropriating and taking away farmers' permits? Who takes care of the thriving rural tourism and local food sales when the farmers' campsites, the ice farms, the milk taps and the grocery stores are gone? Who ensures social bonding in the countryside, the barns that farmers make available free of charge to carnival associations to build their cars and the meadows that are made available for festivals or as a parking lot at a festival? In winter, who voluntarily pushes away the snow with tractors on the rural roads where scattering services never come? Have we thought about that? What do the law do with the 600,000 people who work directly and indirectly in the agricultural sector, the contractors, the transport companies, the barn builders, the agricultural schools, the machine manufacturers, Wageningen University and so on? Do we know that yet? We want to spend more than 1 billion to reduce nitrogen by buying out, expropriating farmers and, in extreme cases, taking away their permit, but what will society soon cost, both socially and financially? I'm guessing a multiple of them. Has that even been considered at all, or should we always be held hostage by threatening court cases of government-funded NGOs? And what about the disappearance of family businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises, which are also well-off in a healthy agricultural sector? Mr President, I would like to make a few more points. The citizens must once again be at the heart of the issues of finance. We want financially sound citizens and that the agreements with the municipalities from 2018 are respected for the Province and the Municipal Fund. So we want extra financial space for the Empire to also increase the amount of money for these funds and that the citizen does not have to be used as a milk cow in a higher ozb again. Can the Minister explain why he seems to be abandoning this agreement? We want a strong sustainable economy, including as regards professionals. We want to continue investing in sufficient personnel for care, education, police and defense. We want the IRS in order. We would like to hear from the Minister what monitoring and combating fraud costs per year. Walt delivers the net in euros and how many extra successfully collected attacks and/or fines does it yield? Do the costs outweigh the benefits? The supplemental scandal. The Secretary of State stated that it may be years before the victims of this black page are compensated and recognized in Dutch history. And not only compensated, but also properly compensated for what has been done to them! It didn't happen to them, as the Secretary of State fortunately doesn't say anymore. Why not pay everyone and accept that small percentage of fraudsters as unavoidable damage? Tens of thousands of devastated families have to wait now, because half a man and a horse's head might take advantage of the situation. We're looking for that one fraud and we're leaving ten others in the cold. Finally, Mr President. The farmer and the citizen aren't files, they're people. Treat them the same way. In the countryside there is a word for it, a way of life, and that is called "nobility." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I shall then give the floor to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to be brief and concise, because most of what had to be said was probably said. I have heard so many wise words from colleagues that I will try to limit myself. Besides, it's almost dinner time. A new fall, a new cabinet. Who knows? And perhaps a new cabinet and a new governance culture. The cow that catches the hare, you know. Anyway, the Millions note. Put the mud of the earth on paper. The APB reversed the cornu copiae and a announced increase in corporation tax partly placed the account with the business community. Some salient points. The cabinet spends nearly 7 billion on climate plans, including under pressure from the so-called Urgendavonnis. Too bad that apparently such a far-reaching interpretation of a judge from among others the ECHR has such profound consequences, but well: I am not a lawyer and it will be true. But it is a pity, because with 7 billion we would still be very useful... Sorry, recovery: other useful things can be done, such as the scaling up of care, the recovery rate for SMEs, which has accumulated tax debts due to the corona crisis, maintain at 0.1% and finally increase the Defence budget to the 2% standard agreed in NATO. We could also do something about poverty. I have heard wise words from Mr Nijboer and Mr Snels. Even surprised me. That sounds unkind, but I don't mean it like that; I mean the positive. They said that good justification should be the basis for such large amounts, otherwise Niskanen's law will go up and the budget will come up. It was an eye-opener for me that we could also build bridges. Just a few more dots. The outgoing cabinet wants to invest EUR 60 million in ammunition. That sounds a little crazy in the ears of this corporate economist. It's like a cook invests in eggs. You invest for the long term, for example in corporate goods that you write off over the years. That seems to me in the case of ammunition, unfortunately a necessary utility, a bit of a blank, a miss. Mr. Chairman. Education was conceived in the corona crisis with an amount of 8.5 billion euros. As far as I'm concerned, money can never go to education enough. Education is one of the possible responses to, among other things, the worrying rise in crime among disadvantaged young people. However, the question is how, in my view, the amount of EUR 4 billion in 2022 should be spent. The importance of the Netherlands would like the money to be spent on a decent reward for teachers and teachers, smaller classes and improving training for those who dare to stand in front of the classroom. Not everyone can become ministers. But ask the professionals, the representatives of the field, what is useful. My fear is that handy consultants and all kinds of desks that make policy plans know away with this money found. Here again, I share Mr Nijboer's concern. If I don't babysit, I'm gonna sing the International here later. Mr. Chairman. According to the Millions Note, there are two budgetary disruptive factors: government debt interest rates and rising healthcare costs. The question is how the interest rate, which is being forced down by the ECB through the buy-back programmes APP and PEPP, is going to develop towards an increase in inflation. Rising energy prices and possibly higher labour costs will leave their mark on inflation. If inflation and high interest rates manifest, debt in the euro area will become unsustainable especially for Italy. A scare is that Italy would be forced to leave the euro, because it will also make the TARGET2 balances play a role according to the Color Confessing Report for a stable and resilient European economy of July this year. It is quite remarkable that this report has received little attention. Mr. Chairman. The cost of care simply cannot be separated from the number of people in the Netherlands. That's how we got to a classic Malthusian problem. I would like to hear from the Minister how many people can host the Netherlands as a small country without further unacceptable pressures on the housing market, care, nitrogen emissions, infrastructure, education and social security. That's a real spearhead. According to BVNL, we really need to have that discussion, no matter how difficult and annoying. That is in the interests of the Netherlands. That's really essential. Mr. Chairman. We have created a Wopke-Wiebes fund I had to google for a while who the latter was already EUR 20 billion, so far without many feats, but who knows, the fund may be able to stimulate innovative SMEs. Maybe the money will be used to expropriate farmers; you never know. We also seem to be entitled to 5.6 billion from the RRF, although these billions may prove to be expensive. Now that we have reached Europe, the SGP and the euro, I do not want to dwell too long, because a lot has already been said about this. In the committee debate on Ecofin of the permanent finance committee, we have also discussed this very much. Maybe I'll file motions in the second term. Nevertheless, I cannot escape the thought of a small, novice entrepreneur who would like to start with a modest bank credit, without Know Your Customer and Client Due Diligence and other concerns about regulation pressure, a modest nerd and dream of creating a unicorn. Does the Minister agree with me that this would be a good implementation of the fund? I am referring to the reduction of regulatory pressure, which is easier said than done, and I know that as well as reducing the tax burden on SMEs. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a pastiche on a start-up SME. Colleagues who recognize the original work: walk immediately to the interrupt microphone with the title and the nom de plume of the author, for a good bottle of wine. There's a bonus bottle on the actual name of the writer and the year of work. "But he did not stand red, for between dream and deed stand in the way of laws and a lot of civil servants, And bureaucracy, which no man can explain, But it comes daily when you go to work." Mr President, I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u111	Thank you. I saw recognition from Mr. File Letter. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u112	No poems of mine; they are not my strength. Mr. Chairman. We live in turbulent times. Those turbulent times we see in the budgetary process after corona. Like a number of colleagues, starting with GroenLinks, early on: what are the budgetary rules that we are currently applying? I would like to ask the Minister of Finance. The VVD has also surprised me somewhat, because as the Christian Union has said: if you do one-off amounts for 25 years, they are no longer a one-off amount, then it is called "financing." It is my estimate that it is better to increase the budget deficit in the open rather than to invent all kinds of funds on the side and to invent all kinds of other ways so that you have no overview of your own debts at all. If you did that as a household, you'd go to bankruptcy fast. My group also feels a little bit of a "group" I say... I am on my own. I still have to get used to it; I can now decide everything all by myself for the idea of the Council of State. Can we seriously receive a tax plan before the summer? Then we can talk good about tax things. That is also better for the Tax Administration itself, because it means more time to prepare the execution, before something is fixed. Mr. Chairman. Like colleagues from Forum, I also see major problems at the moment at the European Central Bank. The risk is enormous with the enormous increase in balance. The first question I would like to ask the government is whether at any time in the last two years there has been a warning from someone or from an institution that Italy would fall over without an emergency fund or without an ECB policy, because I am very concerned about that. So is there a plan B for when a country leaves the euro? And then there's a big country, not Luxembourg or Malta. Inflation in the euro area is now falling to 4%. The objective is price stability and we still have negative interest rates. If I were to introduce this to a freshman economics student, he'd say you failed as a central banker. Does the Minister of Finance still see a way out for the ECB, with public debt in a number of other countries above 140%, reaching 150%? Mr. Chairman. Then there's energy poverty. I would like to have a more detailed assessment of what two or three model households lost in 2020, 2021 and 2022 to their energy bills: gas and electricity. There must be a household that lives in a non-isolated rental house and has a not too high income. Because only then will we see what the purchasing power plates really do. And don't sneak up on someone who's got a three-year contract, I'm gonna say. Mr. Chairman. We have invested more than 10 billion in a Dutch gas roundabout, including storage. The Court of Auditors was extremely critical of this in 2012. But how full are those gas deposits? Because one of the goals of this gas roundabout was security of supply. But now that Putin's on the gas crane, I'd like to know if the place is a little full or not. Please give a clear answer to the question of how full they are at the beginning of winter. Mr. Chairman. Then a few suggestions. Suggest one. We have a lot of tuition fees, the PvdA pointed out, but if we don't have good teachers later, we're nowhere. Doesn't it make sense to transfer some of those billions to teachers' fairs? For a number of categories they were already overwritten after 32 minutes. We're gonna need good teachers, and if we don't have them, you can forget all the investments. Besides, isn't it better to abolish tuition fees for the pabo? And in the past, your college debt was waived, with 10% pieces, if you were a teacher. Isn't it possible to use some of the money for that? Because we're gonna have a lot of money for education, but we're not gonna have teachers. Two. The swindlers. I have a 2009 motion from Mr Remkes: The Chamber, having heard the debate, in the light of the opinion of the Brinkman Committee, asks the government to report further to the Chamber on the implementation of the formation reduction recommendation concerning departmental press officers and spokesmen and to proceed to the order of the day. At that time, we had half fewer spokesmen. This was in 2009. Remkes wasn't listened to at the time. Maybe he's being listened to now. I've been looking at what all these departments have. The department of JenV has a communication department with 10 employees at the company office, 21 for speaking, speeches and environmental knowledge and 29 for communication and editing. That's 59 employees. For example, at OCW there are 4 advisors public appearances for 2 directors, so they have 2 advisors per person and a total of 66 employees. At VWS they have 30 employees for media and performances, 6 staff, 22 for monitoring and 56 for strategy and research, a total of 117. Mr. Chairman. I can go further, but I have less speaking time than there are spokesmen in The Hague and also less than the number of officials you manage as Vice-President of the House. That's 575 and the number of informers has risen to over 800. Will the government itself come up with a proposal to reduce the number of informers? It's gone from 600 to 800 in the last cabinet. I have an amendment to make it into two knowledge institutes: one for taxation and social security, and two for the housing market. Really, this is weird what we have. Mr President, finally, on the Tax Administration and the PwC report. When will the questions be answered in 4 and 5 June? Did the dg and the sg take note of the memo-Palms or the existence of the memo-Palms? I asked for this last December, and even now it is not clear. Can I get an exhaustive list of all those who have interfered in the response to the PwC report following the PwC report? I'd like to see you tomorrow, and then we can get back to that next week. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-7.u114	We will continue the debate tomorrow afternoon. In any case, I would like to thank the directors in trade union K, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I shall suspend the sitting until 7 p.m. Another debate follows, namely a debate on the amendment of the Tickets Act. We'll start about 7:00.
