ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u1	Frank Hendrickx is leaving the room for the last time, ladies and gentlemen. A piece of parliamentary history is walking out the door. The next item is the two-minute debate on motions for resolutions and amendments on budget OCW and WHO Media and culture. A warm word of welcome to the two leaders. Thank you for joining us. It's a day full of melancholy. People are reminiscing, "I remember the opening." We've all been here for a lot of years. That's good to see today, isn't it? The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Rudmer Heerema of the VVD group. He has, like everyone else, two minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr President, thank you. I have one question and one motion for a resolution in response to the reactions to the motions for resolutions in the budget debate. First of all, the question. A motion has been tabled by Rudmer Heerema together with colleague Rog, who is now in Haarlem, on supervision of the B4 schools. The Minister is unable to respond to the substance of the investigation we asked for. This is gonna happen later. Just the question to the Minister: when can we expect this substantive response? Because we do not want this to be postponed in the long term. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the Rudmer Heerema/Van Nispen amendment (35102, No. 23) lays down that by 2023 at least two hours of movement education shall be compulsory for each pupil in primary education;]] [[noting that there is a risk that not all primary schools will be able to meet this legal requirement in time, because municipalities have insufficient visibility and are prepared for the necessary availability of sports accommodation for schools;]] [[having noted that an amount of EUR 61 million has already been added to the Municipal Fund in order to make an extra effort to strengthen sport and mobility providers and to support improvements in the quality of movement education;]] [[Whereas municipalities already have a legal obligation to provide sufficient accommodation for two hours of exercise per week for primary school schools;]] [[considers that it is important for pupils to have sufficient safe sports accommodation so that they can receive the number of hours of movement education they are entitled to;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and to actively draw their attention to the approaching legal obligation in accordance with the Rudmer Heerema/Van Nispen amendment (35102, No. 23) with regard to giving two hours of movement education per week, to have an inventory of what is available, what is needed and what is lacking in accommodation to meet the legal obligation of two hours of movement education, and to point out to them the municipal responsibility in providing sufficient sports accommodation to enable this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rudmer Heerema and Mr Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VIII-272]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here on behalf of Harry van der Molen, who, fortunately, will be back soon. Two questions to our knowledge have not yet been answered. Can the Minister state the current situation regarding the international position of the Dutch language and to what extent this position would be at risk in European capitals such as Paris, Berlin, London and Vienna? Can the Minister guarantee that the additional resources made available by the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Wiersma, which deals with resources for the international land-use infrastructure, in accordance with the amendment, will actually be devoted to the spearheads drawn up by the International Association for Land-use? We understand from the Minister's answers that she had another meeting with the Committee of Ministers on 28 June last. I would like to use this short time to ask two questions. First of all... Has Flanders been able to clarify their contribution during the consultation on 28 June? If not, when does the Minister expect clarity? Second. In the written consultation we asked for a common vision of international landmarks, drawn up by the Committee of Ministers. The Minister indicated that a future perspective for international landmarks is being developed. Can the Commission promise that it will send this vision to the Chamber for budgetary treatment, indicating the financial consequences of this vision? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. Can we answer right away? It is, isn't it? Then we're gonna listen to the minister. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to Mr Peters for his questions on international landmarks. I can well imagine that, as a result of the written answer, further questions were still needed. In the meantime, we are also a step further along with that. You asked for a vision for budgetary treatment. I can assure you that in the very short term I will be working with Flanders in order to promote that the impact analysis of the existing activities, the future prospects and the proposed impulse path, for which we use the amendments, will be sent to the Chamber for budgetary treatment. This is based on a one-off contribution of €600,000. At the request of the Committee of Ministers, therefore, my Flemish colleagues and myself, the Language Union is examining how to provide as much support as possible to international landmarks within the existing budgets. The Language Union has set out a future perspective, looking at how these one-off resources can be used as a lever to strengthen already existing initiatives. This perspective has now been further developed and presented to the Committee of Ministers last week. The contribution to this is based on the previously adopted Dutch amendment. I have discussed with my Flemish colleagues whether they are prepared to contribute to this. The Taalunie always works together, so if the Netherlands contributes to this, the Flemish government should also contribute to this. Mr Jambon has promised me that he will do his best. At 10.00 a.m., the debate began in the Flemish Parliament. That is what is being discussed today; I hope with a positive outcome. But on the Flemish side, I have been promised that they will work for this. As soon as there is more clarity, I will at least let you know before the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u6	That sounds like a good answer. Very short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u7	Very briefly. Would this be only occasional or also structural resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u8	I think that four tons is really about an impulse. I can't decide what the Flemings are going to do, because it depends very much on how they're going to do it. Mr Peters also had a question about the international position of the Dutch language in other major European capitals. That image is very nuanced. In some respects, international landmarks are better than landmarks within our own language area. In countries like Poland and Hungary more people study Dutch than in the Netherlands themselves, but at the same time we also have cause for concern. Over the past decades, we have also seen a slow decline in the number of students studying Dutch worldwide. But that also fits in with a broader, general trend in language studies. A very nice initiative, which I visited yesterday, is Alfa4all, in which we also want to promote education in the Dutch language and teaching. So the image is very nuanced. It seems to me that this two-minute debate goes too far to outline the situation in each capital, but it is also something we have discussed in the framework of the Language Union. Fortunately, this is also where the Surinamese minister now closes up well to mention this here. It was very nice to welcome her there. Finally, you asked me to guarantee that these additional resources, which have been released by means of amendments, are actually being used for international Neerlandism. We transfer these funds to the Dutch Language Union as earmarked resources. So they really need to be deployed for that purpose. That way there will also be reported to you about it. You can be confident that they will really be used for that purpose and only for that purpose. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have answered Mr Peters' questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you. Mr Slob has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for inviting me to be in this Chamber one more time today, the room where I first walked in more than 20 years ago. Maybe it's my age, but I still feel some melancholy coming down on me. Having said that, Mr Heerema has asked a question about the B4 schools. It is true that the report is already with you, but because of the enormous amount of work, the approach to corona, but also the National Education Programme, there has just been insufficient capacity to take on us the further elaboration and a good policy response. Of course, we're going to pick that up after the recess. I can't promise that this calendar year is already with you, but we're really doing what we can. It's not like we're gonna leave anything here, but there's such an incredible amount of work that honesty tells me to prioritize sometimes. I have, of course, also mentioned this in the letter, which we have sent this week, not before today, but to which you are referring.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u11	Is this also about Mr Heerema's motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u12	No, the motion comes next.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u13	Okay. It is neo-Christmas regime today, so one very short, pointy question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u14	That is possible, because I am not saying 'faith' to the Minister that it has not been delivered, but I do have a question. Of course, we have a budget debate at the end of the year. I would ask the Minister to at least ensure that it is there before the budget debate, because that is where we can get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr. Chairman. I can't promise that, but I can promise that we'll pick it up and, of course, if we think it's a ripe reaction, it'll go to the Chamber. So we're doing what we can, but again, I'm afraid this calendar year may not work. But we're gonna see it. On the motion in part No. 272 I can say a little more cheerful lyrics. It has also been submitted on behalf of what you called your "partner in crime," Mr Van Nispen. Good thing that's stuck in the Acts now, because we already had such a hunch. I can tell you that we are already in intensive consultation with the VNG, because of course we know that this is coming. By the way, it's even a broader club we're talking to, because we're also talking to the Sports and Municipalities Association and VWS is also involved. When it comes to more concrete effects, you have also asked for a subsidy scheme by way of motion. Of course, we also have contacts with the ALO, with the KVLO and with the PO Council. So it's a very broad company. The regulation is now in place, which, according to your motion and its elaboration, will also make additional money available for two years. So we're working on it. But you are also asking us to identify where there may still be shortcomings. We're gonna do that, so I'm gonna give this motion judgment Chamber. But to reassure you in your direction, it also fits the subject. We're on the move here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u16	Fine. Thank you. Thanks to the two leaders today, they wanted to be here for the last time. A day full of melancholy, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-07-08-tweedekamer-6.u17	I'm gonna suspend for a moment and then we're gonna talk about integration and integration.
