ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal from the Temporary Committee on the Preparation of Parliamentary Research on the effectiveness of anti-discrimination legislation. I would like to welcome Mr Ganzevoort, Chairman of the Temporary Committee, and Mr Dragstra, Registrar of the Temporary Committee, who has now sat behind the government table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u2	First, I give the floor to Mr Rosenmöller, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Compared to 43 years ago, when I started my working life, the country is much better off. That was part of what I said at the General Political Reviews in October last year. Much remains to be done, but our country is also plagued by whether or not it is just how you want to say it, faced with a number of persistent issues. One of these issues remains, despite the legislation, the existence of prejudice, discrimination and racism in our society. During these General Political Reviews, I also asked for attention to be paid to this. The reason and the direct reason to draw attention to this APB was actually the violent death of George Floyd in America and the Black Lives Matter movement, which not only took place there but also crossed over to our continent and our country. But, as I said in October last year, I had to involuntarily think of an initiative law which I was allowed to defend in this house, the First Chamber, together with my good friend Hans Dijkstal and Louise Groenman, then colleagues of the VVD and the D66 groups. The exchange of views which took place last year during these General Political Reviews resulted in a motion which I tabled together with Mr Jorritsma and many other fellow group chairmen and which was also adopted. This motion calls for a form of parliamentary inquiry into this persistent issue of the existence of prejudice and discrimination. How is it possible that this is so common in practice in relation to the legislation that seems to look so good? This motion has been widely adopted, unfortunately not with the support of the PVV and the SGP groups, but nevertheless. Although the government is not about it, I have looked at it again. The Prime Minister spoke the words that are worthy of consideration: it is, of course, a matter for Parliament, but 'I hope, of course, that it will continue'. Well, at this time, it's nice to quote the Prime Minister with these consensual words. Mr. Chairman. The motion says something about a temporary committee which we ask to make an impact on the questioning, scope and modalities of the parliamentary inquiry in question. Since 26 January there has been the report of this Temporary Committee on the Preparation of Parliamentary Research. Let me begin by thanking colleagues in the Committee on Budgets for the work they have done in a very short time, in the months of December and January. So today we are talking about the proposal they are making to us to launch a parliamentary inquiry into the effectiveness of anti-discrimination legislation so that we can take a decision on it tomorrow. My group's conclusion is that, in general terms, the motion as widely adopted has certainly been well implemented. The duration of the committee has been limited and we believe that the questions of questioning, modality and scope have been answered fairly convincingly. I would like to ask a single question about this. What I found interesting is that in that limited time the committee also comes to the conclusion that protection against discrimination seems to be well regulated in the law. However, on the basis of reports, the committee also comes up with many examples from the practice of prejudice and discrimination. It also states that this is particularly persistent in some cases. In this way, the committee actually endorses the analysis we made last October at the APB. The committee's main question is therefore not surprising: what are the causes and possibilities for the gap between the paper law and the law in practice when it comes to discrimination? Against the backdrop of the motion, too, I think that is a good question. We support this question, just as we support the three sub-questions, which I will not repeat, which can be used as a handle in the work of the committee. In Chapters 3 and 4, the Committee makes it convincingly clear that there is complementarity rather than overlap when it comes to government initiatives. In particular, it concerns the state committee on which the committee chairman and vice-president, as the report shows, have spoken with the government. We appreciate that very much. It is preferable, as we read, to use a parliamentary inquiry, other than the modality of a parliamentary inquiry or an external investigation. We consider the arguments put forward by the committee to be valid and convincing. We therefore agree on everything relating to modality. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I have three questions for the committee. I suppose the committee is unanimous, otherwise we would have seen or read it in the report. My question is what its meaning would be. Does this mean that the members of the committee are all in favour of the proposal as proposed by the committee? A two question concerns scope. The Committee recommends case studies in four sectors: labour market, education, social security and police. However, the parliamentary committee of inquiry has, in our view, a right to extend it or to limit it. But labour market and education are essential. Are the other ones less substantial? How am I supposed to explain that? There may be some ranking in close reading, careful reading. Can the committee explain this further? Would the housing market, for example, which we read a lot about in reports, not also be a very suitable sector for research? My final question is as follows. At a time when the billions are flying out again in this country, you must also look after the little ones. So a question about the cost. Are these costs more or less comparable to those for the last parliamentary inquiry, one of the first that this Chamber initiated, namely that in 2011 towards privatisation and self-determination? Can the committee say anything about that? Mr. Chairman. We look forward with confidence to the committee's answers to these questions, but I can already say that we support the committee's proposal. We sincerely hope that this Chamber will be unanimous in its support for the proposal. Next best would of course be as large a majority as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Rosenmöller. Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u5	The clock is already running, while I haven't said anything yet. But I'll make it with time, Mr. Chairman. It's gonna be okay today. Mr. Chairman. The prohibition of discrimination is legally firmly anchored, both at national and international level. This didn't stop the initiators from the ranks of GroenLinks and the VVD from getting into the business. They put the alleged discrepancy between anti-discrimination legislation in theory and its functioning in practice on the agenda. That is how they came up with a parliamentary inquiry. Since the vast majority of this chambre de réflexion has a strong need for virtue, the corresponding motion slipped smoothly through this Chamber. Next, the Temporary Committee on the Preparation of Parliamentary Research was made effective anti-discrimination legislation, which produced a report that we now need to find something about. Mr. Chairman. Let's start with the main question of future research. This is: what are the causes and possible solutions for the gap identified between the paper law and the law in practice when it comes to discrimination? Apparently, the gap has already been identified. The question to the temporary committee is: on what basis has this gap been identified? Probably not on the number of declarations of discrimination, let alone on the number of convictions. Because when I asked one of the initiators, Mrs Jorritsma, about the number of declarations in this matter during the APB, she did not give me the answer. As one of the initiators, it seems to me that you have a bit of a focus on the subject. Or did she and the other initiator, Mr. Rosenmöller, simply take the theorem "we should have that assumption, because otherwise we will not get anywhere" and "we will support it later with reports and hurt feelings"? In order to deepen and broaden the supposed gap, the concept of "discrimination" is extended. In addition to objective legislation, a subjective dimension is added. For example, the report states "that discrimination does not only cover the prohibition of discrimination, but also the distinction which, in one way or in another, is detrimental or unfair in a way which makes it clear to the injured party that it is not considered an equal person." This last part is extremely subjective and leads to arbitrariness. Whatever hurts one person can be a compliment to the other. Suppose one of the initiators, for example Mr. Rosenmöller... where is he anyway? Oh, by the SGP!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u6	Your time is running!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u7	If Mr. Rosenmöller were to be called a populist, I'd estimate he'd be insulted. Oh, isn't it? That's when I think "populist" is a nickname. But we're making progress, Mr. Rosenmöller. All right, hold it right there! This is going to be a nice debate today, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mrs Faber, will you address the chairman? No discussions in the room, please. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u9	You're right. I let Mr. Rosenmöller seduce me for a moment. That's wrong, too. Anyway, it's about how the person in question experiences it. Experience is personal, is full of emotions and cannot be caught in laws. Mr. Chairman. The law is objective and before the law everyone is equal. If a citizen considers that he or she is discriminated against, he or she may, by law, press charges and go to court. If a law doesn't work, you may wonder if this Chamber has done its job properly. Perhaps this Chamber should reflect on itself. Has there been a lack of awareness of feasibility and enforcement from a political point of view? Mr. Chairman. The temporary committee wonders what insights can be derived from the causes found in other countries or solutions tested by parliaments there. It refers to the reports of the Council of Europe in particular. But how serious should we take it? The Council of Europe, of all people, has OIC members in its ranks. The OIC stands for Organisation for Islamic Cooperation. Its members distinguish themselves within the Council of Europe with their own human rights through the Cairo Declaration. These are Islamic human rights based on Sharia. Albania, Azerbaijan and Turkey voted against a report and a resolution stating that Sharia is incompatible with human rights. Whatever you think of it, at least they voted, unlike the European Group of Liberals and Democrats, ALDE. She abstained from voting cowardlyly. They did not dare to reject the claim that Islamic Sharia is incompatible with human rights, while Sharia is full of objective discriminatory rules. And what is the case with this temporary committee? Both the initiator, Mrs Jorritsma, and the Commissioner, Mrs Stienen, are members of the Council of Europe and their parties are members of the European group ALDE. At the time, they left the ultimate opportunity to speak out against discrimination from Islam. It is precisely within that Islam that women, non-heteros and unbelievers are not considered equal people. At the time, dare not take a stand and then come up with the present report is not only unbelievable, but above all hypocritical. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the Home Secretary isn't sitting still either. She is in the process of forming a state committee on discrimination and racism. The report indicates that it appears that the government initiative focuses on the impact of policies and the experiences of citizens. Apparently, before it resolves a possible gap, the State Commission will first examine whether there is a gap. If a gap is actually detected, you can move to the next phase: cause and solution. Why don't the temporary committee let the state committee do its job first? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The temporary committee indicates that the parliamentary committee of inquiry is complementary to the state committee, but does the minister see it as such? There are doubts about this in the report. The temporary committee would like to coordinate with the state committee, but did the minister say that she would also go for alignment? It may just be that she doesn't want any interference from the First Chamber. I'd like a response from the temporary committee. And why is the temporary committee already giving a shot by suggesting that if the problem is not so much in legislation or policy as in human behaviour, solutions should be found earlier in education or campaigns? There is a good chance that one of the conclusions of the parliamentary inquiry on the cause will point to human behaviour. Does this temporary committee want to overtake and influence the state committee? This is an interesting one: one of the initiators, Mr. Rosenmöller, is also chairman of the VO Council, an association of schools in secondary education, an association that wants to prepare students for their role in society. Is there a conflict of interest here or the appearance of conflict of interest? I'd like a response from the temporary committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mrs Faber, that is not the issue today. We're not gonna take each other in terms of resumes and side functions here. That's an integrity discussion. We'll feed it at another time. We are not discussing each other here as MPs, not even in the context of this debate. I therefore ask you not to repeat this, and I ask the committee not to reply to this. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u11	I'd like to respond to this. Firstly, I am not saying that this is the case. I'm asking the question. I am actually helping Mr Rosenmöller, because he can change his mind about such a question. Otherwise this stays upstairs...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u12	No, I'm gonna interrupt you. I don't want you talking about Mr. Rosenmöller anymore. This is the committee's preliminary report. We are not talking about each other here, not even as an example and not asking. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u13	Then this is obviously very sensitive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u14	That's right, yes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u15	But I can interpret that in different ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u16	Your speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u17	I'll make it in three minutes. But I think it's amazing. Mr. Chairman. We are all Members of Parliament and we are all equal, so is the President. He may be on the rostrum every week, but he's just gonna be one of us. That's how he behaves. For this reason, the PVV Group is surprised that a distinction is made between taking part in the Committee of Inquiry by means of some criteria. In this way, men and women are given proportional representation. Now I got the impression that gender shouldn't matter, but by naming it it seems to matter. Experience in an administrative environment is also a pre, but you have to be part of the job carousel. Apparently, they want "our kind of people." That is exactly what is wrong in this country. Mr President, I will conclude. Discrimination is forbidden and before the law everyone is equal. That people do experience discrimination in practice, yes, that will certainly occur. But experience is always personal and culturally dependent. With the open borders, cultures have flowed in where honour plays a much greater role than in Dutch culture. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau indicates that Dutch people with a migration background experience more discrimination than native Dutch people. But it also indicates that native Dutch people less often take action against discrimination than people with a migration background. Think of Eleanor Roosevelt. As she said, no one can hurt you without your permission. And then the theorem comes up: developing more resilience will make more progress than this research with a price tag of €730,000. I'd like a response from the temporary committee. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Mr Frentrop, on behalf of the Group of the Forum for Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's get back to base first. In the debate on the Rosenmöller/Jorritsma-Lebbink motion, the Forum for Democracy Group specifically demanded that this study should include, if it comes to it, research into discrimination against white people and discrimination based on political colour. In Mr Rosenmöller's speech, the initiators made an explicit commitment to this. We can look at the Acts after that. This commitment was decisive for the Democracy Forum to agree to the intention. In our explanation of vote, therefore, we expressly stated that we only voted in favour of the proposal because we had been promised that discrimination against white people and politically motivated would also be investigated. The preparatory committee then started work. In the report, however, I hardly see any reference to the commitments made. My first question to the committee is therefore whether the preparatory committee is prepared to add these subjects to the proposed list of case studies within the selected sectors. Mr. Rosenmöller hoped for unanimous support from this Chamber. I would say that it is necessary to keep that commitment for this unanimous support. That commitment could also be included in an addendum to the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u20	I have a question for Mr. Frentrop. He says that Forum only agreed if it was also about discrimination against white people and against politics. But you've seen those draft reports, haven't you? You could have responded to that, couldn't you? You could have asked at that point why that wasn't there. Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u21	I agree. It has been a bit awkward for us, because the member who was on the committee on behalf of Forum was still on the committee but no longer on behalf of Forum, so that was a communication disorder. I was talking about an addendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u22	Excuse me. Mr Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u23	To maybe take away a misunderstanding. I remember your interruption at the APB very well. I told you there's nothing out of the question. The scope is initially proposed by a parliamentary committee, but I have not promised anything. Do you remember that in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u24	All right, then, I note that you have not promised it, but we made it a condition, and that is what we said in our explanation of vote. If the committee appreciates unanimity, I would ask the committee to add it to the projects mentioned as cases. Shall we do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you for this new insight, because it does you justice to history.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u26	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u27	I was proposing an addendum, Mr President. I believe that this is necessary because the present version of the report contains some shortcomings and factual inaccuracies. They need to be corrected. It begins with the first sentence, which says, I quote: 'In daily traffic in the Netherlands, there is frequent discrimination between persons and groups'. Mr. Chairman. The first half of that sentence is irrelevant, because on page 10, the Committee says that daily traffic between citizens will not be part of the report. Moreover, of course there is a distinction between individuals and groups. That's a good thing. That is at the heart of the corona policy, that individuals must avoid groups. So I think the committee meant something else, but let them write that down. In an addendum, this could be corrected. Because of course we distinguish between individuals and groups. Then there's the second sentence. It says, "It's not often a problem." That's incorrect. It is never problematic to distinguish between individuals and groups. It's always wise to do that. You're crazy if you don't distinguish between people and groups, I'd like to say. So I ask the committee to correct this error in the addendum as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u28	In the context of what Mr Frentrop just said, I would like to ask him a question. Yesterday, a partner in crime from your party, Mr. Ralf Dekker, said...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u29	Partner in crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u30	... at the FVD caravan in Tholen the following: "We must be able to recognize each other as Forum members, with a secret greeting. If you want to hire an employee, we're going to look: is that employee member of Forum? And if he doesn't, he won't come in." Mr. Dekker also calls for your house not to be painted by a painter who is not a member of FVD. How do you rhyme with what you just said?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u31	We're not gonna make all kinds of personal attacks on people who aren't here today. Nor do we go beyond the order of the debate. I would, of course, like to give Mr Frentrop the opportunity to respond, but I call on Members, including those who came in after the start of this debate... because we agreed with the spokesmen that today we are limiting the number of interruptions to business questions concerning the committee's proposal. We are not going to measure statements from individual members of political parties and so on. We are not going to do that, so I would ask you to stick to it, but now that you have asked, I will, of course, give Mr Frentrop the opportunity to respond to it and then continue his plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u32	I will answer the substance of the matter, Mr President. I do not know exactly what Mr De Vries is talking about, but if there were any distinctions on the basis of political colour, I would argue very strongly that I have already done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u34	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u35	Where was I? Yeah, I got something for the addendum. I note that the committee seems to have a phobia of distinction. The committee is afraid of distinction. This becomes even clearer in the second paragraph of the report. This starts with: "Distinction for which there is no objective and reasonable justification is problematic and prohibited under national and international law." That's incorrect. Everyone makes regular distinctions in daily traffic without objective or reasonable justification. Luckily, that's not illegal. Let me give you one example. Some Dutch are fans of Ajax, others, like me, of ADO Den Haag. All these people make distinctions without objective and reasonable justification. If we all cheer for a goal of the Dutch team against the Germans, we all make a non-objective and unreasonable distinction, because those Germans can't help it either. What the committee probably means is that discrimination is the making of forbidden distinction, but not that distinction is prohibited without reason, as it writes. I therefore ask the committee to correct this sentence in an addendum. Mr. Chairman. The research proposal raises the idea that all distinctions are wrong. Well, that's not the case. On the contrary, distinction is a good thing. Man has not received the gift of discernment for nothing. We know how important the distinction between good and evil is. According to Dante, in his La Divina Commedia, that gift is the first thing you lose when you enter hell. It's not just about the distinction between good and evil. The whole word "intelligence" is derived from the Latin term for distinction. Inter: in between. Leger: Choosing. Divorce. Without distinction, no intelligence. Without distinction, we're in hell. In this context, I would also like to quote a famous statement by Martin Luther King: I look forward to the day when people will not be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character. We must not forget that second part of this statement. That there should be no distinction on the basis of skin colour, we fully agree, but we must continue to be able to distinguish, for example by character, as Reverend King says. Distinctive is good, distinction is necessary, distinction is the basis of intelligence and thus the basis of knowledge and progress. The preparatory committee should have focused on discrimination, but instead opposed to making distinctions. Discrimination is not making distinction, discrimination is making prohibited distinction. Then the most important question: is this research necessary, is there really a problem and, if so, is that problem then the gap that would exist between the paper law and the law in practice, as is the metaphor used in the Rosenmöller/Jorritsma-Lebbink motion? The preparatory committee has gathered a number of examples to answer that question. She writes about this and I quote: 'The examples, however different they may be, have in common that they are always about forms of discrimination that are (sometimes evidently) contrary to the anti-discrimination legislation in force'. The Committee therefore notes that there is sometimes a breach of existing anti-discrimination legislation. The Forum for Democracy agrees with that. That happens sometimes and that is not good, but that does not mean that there is a theoretical gap between the law on paper and the law on the street. Everyone knows that in the Netherlands there are not sometimes but often acts in violation of all kinds of legislation in force. For example, traffic criminal law is violated thousands of times a day, in particular Articles 20 and 21 of the Rules of Procedure, and roadsigns are violated by people who drive faster than is allowed. Does the preparatory committee then find that daily traffic in the Netherlands has a gap between the law on paper and the law on the street? Of course not, but when it comes to acting in violation of the current anti-discrimination legislation, the committee believes there is a gap and says: 'There is therefore every reason to conduct a parliamentary inquiry into this gap'. That "that's why" is unsubstantiated. For testing a theory it is absolutely not enough to find a few examples that seem to support the theory. The conclusion is not correct. I therefore note that the committee has not produced sufficient facts to demonstrate the need for a parliamentary inquiry. I would almost say 'it seems like curfew', but then I'm out of order and I won't, because then the chairman gets angry. That brings me to the costs involved in the investigation. Almost three quarters of a million is needed, the Committee believes, for a study consisting of reading, the so-called literature research, and talking, talking to a number of people or groups. And what do we get in return for a year of reading and talking? In a year, we'll get a report that we can talk about ourselves. We don't have to hire outsiders for that, do we? Moreover, the state committee is already starting work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u36	I hear Mr Frentrop looking for a lead. I can give him that because he wrote a book of his own and it's called "Women's logic."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u37	Now you're going to use personal facts again, Mr. De Vries. I'm not giving you the chance. I'm not giving you a chance to finish this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u38	I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u39	I'm sorry, have a seat. I now give the floor to Mr Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u40	Then I come to the question of who would be able to carry out that investigation if a majority of this Chamber decided to go ahead with it. Who's gonna do that? A recommended composition of the Committee of Inquiry has been done by the Provisional Committee. First of all, they must all be members of the First Chamber, but among those members, the preparatory committee makes a distinction. Distince that I don't think is based on reason. Although this Chamber is made up entirely of white and almost all highly educated Dutch, this committee still makes a distinction. It is not discrimination, but I do not think it is a reasonable distinction. The committee considers it necessary to determine who is and is not suitable to participate in the Committee of Inquiry. She doesn't use Martin Luther King's criterion, character, but other criteria. Mrs Faber also pointed that out. As has been said, the Democracy Forum is strongly in favour of making a distinction, but not here. We believe that the preparatory committee has exceeded its mandate by excluding certain members of this Chamber as a member of the Committee of Inquiry. I do not think there is a need for a committee of inquiry, but if it does, the Chamber is free to appoint the members it wants. We are very interested in the opinion of other Members of Parliament on this subject, especially those Members of Parliament who, according to the committee, are not eligible to participate in the Committee of Inquiry. I also have a more personal question to ask the committee: am I fit to be a member of the Committee of Inquiry? Mr President, in summary. No need for investigation has been demonstrated by the preparatory committee. I suspect that the decision to proceed, if taken in the near future, will not be taken on objective and reasonable grounds but on political grounds. I think this project is part of a ritual mating dance between GroenLinks and the VVD, led by members Rosenmöller and Jorritsma, a dance that has started slowly, with another useless and costly project: training police officers in the Afghan province of Kunduz. But that is now out of order. If this research is to be carried out, then the Forum for Democracy will demand that at least the issues that we have been promised will be taken into account. I would be grateful if the committee could repeat that commitment. If it does come to that: no selection criteria for the members of the committee, less spending money and, above all, not based on the false assumption that all distinctions are bad. Whether we continue or not, I would like at least an addendum to this version of the report which corrects the inaccuracies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u41	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I call Mrs Sent from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Be yourself. Feel at home in your own neighborhood. See that your daughter moves nice and safe across the street, as she pleases; alone, hand in hand with her girlfriend, or with a headscarf on. That you can trust everyone to be treated equally. That there are equal rights and opportunities. That's the society the PvdA stands for. But that's not the society we're living in right now. We see unacceptable dividing lines, right through society, where people are not treated equally and not with respect. People are brought back to the yarmulke or the headscarf they wear. People are reduced to religion or origin. Discrimination, exclusion and racism do not belong in our society. We must not be limited to a single interest, an ethnicity, an identity. Unfortunately, many people feel the pain of everyday racism, injustice and exclusion every day, including in our country. From sports canteen jokes to poisonous lyrics from politicians. From a tax administration that discriminates on the basis of origin to employers who reject people on the basis of their last name. It's inspiring to see that a large part of society has had enough of this. It's done. It is time for a Netherlands in which everyone is equal. The hatred must stop. Mr. Chairman. At the General Political Reviews in 2019, my group chairman, Senator Vos, made a fierce plea against the normalization of racism. She referred to the shocking reactions to the throne speech of King Yusuf Khalid. This 14-year-old gymnast spoke in his speech to the throne about depression in children, a poignant and courageous subject for a eulogy of the throne. What was his thanks? Comments like this, with name and name. I quote: "King of youth are of the Netherlands means to me that there is a Dutch child, and not this." We're talking about a 14-year-old boy, a student, a human, not "this." The Prime Minister responded encouragingly to the appeal of the Labour Party. I quote: "But if you don't give someone an internship because her name is Fatima, or if you don't hire someone because his name is Muhammad, or if you don't like people's skin color, that's so fucking stupid. Apart from the fact that it's stupid, you're also doing yourself very short, because it doesn't lead to a good mix of people, man-woman, white-black, gay-hetero, which ultimately leads to better decisions. If you don't think so, you'll be stuck with all the clubs of white Dutch men from the early 40s and we now know where that takes us." Mr. Chairman. On paper, including in the legislation, protection against discrimination seems to be well regulated, but in practice it is a major and urgent problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u43	My question to Mrs Sent is: how does she see advertisements that say, for example, that a woman is preferred? You see that all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u44	In that kind of situation, the following happens. We know that there are unconscious prejudices, which reduces women's chances of being selected for a job vacancy. Such advertisements attempt to combat subconscious discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u45	But why does Mrs. Sent think women are less likely to be eligible for such a job?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u46	Because we know quality is judged by sex glasses. The ideal candidate is a clone. And we know that if a job application committee consists in a majority of men, women are less appreciated. We also know that if the majority of applicants are women, the job is less appreciated. Look, for example, at what has happened to the prestige of education and the prestige of general practitioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u47	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u48	Well, I guess I'll just have to talk from my own experience. I have never been seen as less than my male colleagues at work. I even led a group of men for four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u49	What's your short question, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u50	However, I would like to endorse the fact that we have a disagreement here. We are, of course, also having a debate here. We're not just asking questions. I'll keep it tidy. I'm not gonna bash anybody or anything. I'll keep it to myself. In addition, it was also the case that I still deserved very well. You don't want to be the excuse of a department! That's what you should be talking about as a woman. I can say that as a woman to you as a woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u51	That is your third question. Mrs. Sent, finally. And then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u52	We know there's a pay gap. If we correct it for all kinds of things, there is still a pay gap. We know that if the minority of candidates is a woman, they're valued lower. We know that letters of recommendation for women are formulated differently. We know women's resumes are read differently. All this is demonstrated by scientific research into subconscious gender biases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u53	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u54	On paper, including in the legislation, protection against discrimination seems to be well regulated, but in practice it is a major and urgent problem. Hence the research assignment as formulated in the report of the Temporary Committee on the Preparation of Parliamentary Research Effectiveness of Anti-Discrimination Legislation. How is it that such a big gap between the law on paper and the law in practice when it comes to discrimination? What role does Parliament play in the effectiveness of anti-discrimination legislation? We hope that a balancing framework can be formulated and/or a list of points of interest that can be helpful in assessing future legislation or policies by Parliament. We would have liked the temporary committee's proposal to include the case investigation into discrimination in the housing market and in the care sector, but we understand that choices need to be made. For my group, it is important to consider in detail the role of prejudice, social standards and unconscious processes. And for my group, good coordination with the State Committee on Discrimination and Racism is essential. We assume that this will be followed up. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. For all of us there is a responsibility to act against institutional racism, xenophobia, abuse of power and discrimination. That responsibility also applies to the Senate. That is why my group wholeheartedly supports the present research proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. Mrs Nanninga from the Nanninga Group, whom I would like to welcome back to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good to be back. Anything happen here in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u57	Nah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u58	Then I'm going to start my speech. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the committee for the good intentions and to the authors of the motion with whom this ball came to roll. I believe that we can be very brief about discrimination or legislation which may unintentionally lead to discrimination, without too much debate: that is deeply undesirable. Investigating to prevent such abuses seems, therefore, in view of the noble intentions, cut cake. But it is not that simple, it appears after reading the present report. Our group still has a number of criticisms and questions to the temporary committee. First of all... In formulating the central research question and the partial questions, the committee took the starting point that the parliamentary committee of inquiry to be set up should have the space to conduct the research on its own understanding and certainly on the basis of progressive insight. There should be a possibility to tighten up the research questions and to place its own or additional accents, without requiring a separate mandate from the Chamber. Does it mean that it can be organized according to its own judgment and based on a progressive view, I ask the committee through its chairman, that the committee actually gets carte blanche to organise the investigation in such a way that the scope as it is described is widened or that it is deviated from it so that it becomes a completely different story from what we now have? Furthermore, anti-racism and anti-discrimination have never been as widely represented as they are today, sometimes rightly and sometimes very far-fetched. For the past 24 hours alone, we have learned from the national media that both the noble chess sport and the Muppet Show would be discriminatory. Anti-racist activism sometimes goes a long way in "the boy who cried wolf," which sometimes takes the real cases of discrimination or racism undersnowing or less seriously. How does the temporary committee ensure that the committee of inquiry does not lose itself in woke bullshit? Is it not such an ambitious task in itself to investigate failures in the chain that it is wiser in advance to focus on getting very clear from the outset what the relevant sub-questions are, rather than gradually opting for expansion and adaptation? What considerations have been used to place a heavy emphasis on discrimination against people with a migration background? Why not include a case study on people without a migration background, for example in the search for a job with a preferred policy for minorities, in the allocation of housing, think of status holders over other people in the housing market, or the distribution of cultural subsidies, which sometimes literally goes on the skin to the detriment of people with a different skin color? Why wasn't that worth mentioning? In formulating its research proposal, the committee considered how the proposed parliamentary inquiry relates to the government's already announced state committee on discrimination and racism. The chairman and vice-president of the committee sought agreement with the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Surprise: there was complementarity rather than overlap. Here we see almost again the McCarthyism of contemporary thinking about racism. A senate representation reports with pious faces to conduct an investigation that the government is actually already doing. But yes, woe to the ruler who then cracks critical notes or questions the usefulness of such an exercise. Before you know it, after all, you're a racist and it's "why don't you want to investigate discrimination?'. So, of course, the Minister says that this is a wonderfully complementary plan, but is it? Because, of course, there is still some time, money, effort and manpower involved. That's a shame if you can just put it in there. I see my time is running a little faster than I'd hoped.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u59	Time always goes the same fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u60	Yeah, it's crazy, but it doesn't look like you're standing here!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u61	Practice at home!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u62	Once again, there is absolutely no need for the JA21 group to say that discrimination is wrong, but let us address this type of investigation wisely and perhaps not address it in this case. The bugband wagon appears to offer a comfortable ride, but time, resources and energy may be better spent in this crisis, despite all good intentions. Perhaps the temporary committee will be able to explain and defend satisfactorily in its reply the right of existence and the interpretation of the research envisaged. Then we'll have the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u63	That puts you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u64	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u65	I have a very enlightening question for Mrs Nanninga. Mrs Nanninga says that the Minister has indicated that the research is complementary. Does Mrs. Nanninga mean the investigation of the First Chamber or her investigation? What is Mrs. Nanninga basing this on? It's something new for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u66	I read that in my preparation somewhere, but I must remain guilty of the answer to the question where I read it. I understand from one of the supporting documents that the committee has approached the minister, in the vein of: "You are already doing something like this. We do, too. Don't we ride each other in the wheels?" As far as I am concerned, the answer could have been fine: we are already doing something like this, join us. But the answer was: it can be complementary. So it's an independent investigation, which should cost three-quarters of a million dollars. If that's not a duplication of effort, then that's my question. But the exact source of this must remain yours for a while. I read it in one of the attached pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u67	So the answer comes from the committee later, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u68	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u69	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u70	I would like to comment on that. It is true that there has been contact between the temporary committee and the Ministry of the Interior, but I myself had a bit of a feeling that the minister was holding the boat back. You can read doubt in the report. That's why I was so curious to know what your source is. I find it a little strange that Mrs Nanninga is coming up with a statement. Then you must have your source, and then you must be able to explain it. This is the Senate. Then you shouldn't be talking nonsense, 'cause people want to know where it comes from. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u71	Mrs Faber asks about the source, Mrs Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u72	Mrs Faber is absolutely right. Of course, I should have been able to mention a piece or a song here. I don't have that right now. As far as the interpretation of the Minister's words is concerned, Mrs Faber is in doubt. I've seen that differently. Of course, we can have endless kisses about that, but that's gonna be an exegesis of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u73	You can always go into it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u74	There's always time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u75	Then I would like to give the floor... Mr Rosenmöller on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u76	In the search for broad support, I have a question for Mrs Nanninga, especially when it comes to aligning with the government's activities. The Prime Minister said here in the General Reviews that he wasn't talking about it, but I quoted him and he said, "I hope, of course, that it will continue." Would not the fact that the government sincerely hopes that it will continue be a confirmation of the fact that it is complementary to the other? Would that shed light on your doubt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u77	The hope of the government does not always guarantee a useful use of resources, human resources and taxpayers' money, I say to Mr Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u78	Finally, Mr Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u79	You're looking for a situation where one doesn't overlap. That could be this statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u80	That is the Prime Minister's opinion, but I wonder if that is the case and if we are not all going to do a double job here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u81	I would like to give the floor to Mr Kox on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can I thank the committee, whose chairman and Vice-President I see present, for the speedy and thorough work that has been done? It is not always so fast when we adopt a motion that it is translated into practice. On the day we adopted this motion, we adopted a few other motions, including a fair remuneration in the care. That will take some time, but at least this gives hope: it can work quickly. I have also seen that the committee has discussed well and quickly and has examined what to do with this motion. A motion which, as Mr Rosenmöller said, was widely supported in this Chamber, including by my group. Now we're about to say, go ahead with the investigation, let's get it started. This means that we are going to launch the second parliamentary investigation in the history of the First Chamber. The fact that it's only the second one indicates that it's not just something. It is the toughest procedure in the parliamentary inquiry. We have been able to keep them since the end of the nineteenth century, but we have not yet gotten to them, but who knows what is not, can still come. But a parliamentary inquiry is the second hardest way this Chamber can use to find out something. I think that's what it's all about. It is not so much a question of expressing what we all think of discrimination. In fact, it is a simple question. We have written in Article 1 of the Constitution that discrimination is prohibited on any ground. We've translated that into the penal code as, if you do it, you could be screwed. In other laws, we have translated it as: If you do, you will be called upon. But if Article 1 of the Constitution makes it so clear, with broad support from Parliament and the population, how can it be that research by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows that in 2018 more than a quarter of the Dutch population said "and yet I have experienced that I am being disadvantaged, that I am being discriminated against"? That is quite a contradiction, and it is a good thing that Parliament says: there are, of course, all kinds of reasons for discrimination, but how is that possible? Could it perhaps also be that our laws, despite all our good intentions, do not have the effect that they should have, namely that there is no discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mr. Kox asks the question, how can people feel discriminated against in spite of all these good laws? I have raised a similar problem. You can't drive anywhere faster in the Netherlands than 130 or 120 years old that depends a bit on the actuality of the situation, but it's happening anyway. Is there any way to answer that question? We've all agreed that you can't drive any faster than that, and there are people who do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u84	It seems to me more than worthwhile to investigate why this is happening and to take action on it. But I would go a little too far to conduct a parliamentary inquiry into this. We kind of know where it is. If cars couldn't drive faster than 100, we wouldn't have a problem. If we allow cars to drive faster than 100, then we must use prohibition and commandments and criminal provisions to try to implement the policy. Or maybe we should start thinking about the fact that, like in Germany, you can drive up to 150 on the highway, because then you also have that problem a little less. But I think that Mr Frentrop, too, thinks that a parliamentary inquiry is a little too heavy for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u85	I agree with Mr Kox, but I wonder why a parliamentary inquiry is needed into what is being proposed now. I don't see any substantial difference. If there are people who break the law, when we've all agreed that we shouldn't, what exactly should we investigate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u86	We had a debate here a few weeks ago on Article 1 and whether it was necessary to make any adjustments. We stressed in that debate how essential it is for a rule of law, for a democratic rule of law, to put the principle of equivalence above all else. That is the basis, the basis, on which our rule of law rests. If that foundation is torn apart, there will be consequences. This can have serious consequences for the rule of law as such, including traffic rules, I shall say. But it is of a different kind, of a different kind. If we cannot guarantee equality to our people, then we cannot guarantee the rule of law of our country. I think we all think we're supposed to be a state of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u87	Mr Frentrop, the third!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u88	The latter I agree with Mr. Kox. When he talks about equivalence, I really start to wonder what he means by that, because equality means equality before the law. We are all equal before the law in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u89	Kox!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u90	So there is, and what are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u91	Finally, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u92	Our Constitution says that discrimination on any ground is not allowed. There are consequences, because we don't want to. Nevertheless, the Social and Cultural Planning Agency notes that in 2018 27% of the population said: I feel discriminated against. That's a huge contradiction. If that were true, that would be a huge contradiction, because that means that more than a quarter of your population do not experience equal treatment. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau says that it is experienced discrimination and not actual discrimination, but it is so great that I think it was also a reason for this Chamber, for the VVD, for GroenLinks and for the other groups, to say: can we not even start looking at how, with all our good intentions, we apparently do not realize with our legislation that that percentage is much lower?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u93	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u94	That is why I think it is a good idea that this Chamber has decided to do so. Why this room? Because this Chamber, with some distance, at least I hope and I think, also on the basis of the first parliamentary inquiry that we have done, can look at how Parliament performs the legislative task. Looking at yourself isn't that easy. Every person knows that about himself, and we know that as a parliament. But because we are usually following in legislation we do not invent the legislation, we may be looking at it with a little more distance. From: here something was forbidden in a law, or here something was commanded in a law, but in practice that does not come out. Did we do something wrong? Was the text of the law wrong? Were the assumptions wrong? Was the performance wrong? Were the different steps wrong? In short, how does it happen and can we improve it? I think that is an extremely positive approach by Parliament. We're not gonna write a report complaining that it's all wrong. No, we're going to write a report hoping that we can come up with possible solutions for ourselves. Not for other people, but for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u95	Mr. Kox indicates that there would be a significant group of people who experienced discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u96	No, it's not. Discriminated is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u97	Who's discriminated against?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u98	A significant group experiences discrimination, which has been scientifically established. What is different from being actually discriminated against. But that experience is a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u99	What is your question, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u100	I welcome Mr Kox's enlightening addition. He says: it is scientifically proven or determined that it is. But when I look at the numbers, for example... look, feelings are of course very difficult to catch. Everyone has different feelings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u101	No, I'm not. No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u102	Well, I think you have different feelings than I do. At least, I hope so, because that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u103	What is your question, Mrs Faber? A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u104	Yeah, I'm gonna have to introduce it a little, 'cause otherwise it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u105	No, a short question is an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u106	Mr Kox says it is experienced, but that his feelings and feelings are very subjective! If, for example, I look at the figures of the number of declarations made, the number of convictions, the number of notifications made...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u107	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u108	...then it falls, when I look at the numbers... because numbers give me something. Scientifically, I can do something with numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u109	Mrs Faber, an interruption is meant as a short question. We agreed with each other and all the spokesmen prior to the debate, and we agreed on that, and you also did not protest that we are reserving the interruptions for short questions today. This is your fourth interruption in an hour. I am happy to give you the opportunity to ask a short question, and you will be given a further time to discuss the matter in greater detail. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u110	Mr President, at least you cannot say that I am not participating today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u111	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u112	Then let's get right to the point. When I look at the number of returns, there were 123 in 2019. That is 123 too many, I agree with you, but that is very little, for a population of 17.4 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u113	Mrs Faber said that these figures cannot be, because they are based on individual feelings. But the great thing that psychology, sociology and other sciences have given us is that if you do a lot of research, you can quantify individual feelings. That's what the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau does. This is done with the help of our money and with our support that scientific research. This is clear: if we do so on the basis of good scientific procedures, we will find that 27% of our population experience discrimination. That's a fact. That's not feeling anymore, it's a fact. Whether each individual feeling was a fact is not being investigated. They're investigating what the population is experiencing. Then those are hard numbers. The Parliament says in Article 1 of the Constitution: you will not discriminate, we do not want that to happen. Then it has to ask itself, on the basis of such a figure alone, whether it is doing something wrong. Is there anything we can do better? Can we improve our legislation so that this figure goes down?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u114	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u115	Yeah, I had to wait till I got the floor. I must say, Mr. Kox is, of course, a word artist. He's like Hans Klok. He makes subjective feelings into objective data. I think that is actually very good, because I do not think that is scientifically possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u116	I see Mr Otten reporting. Mr. Otten, you know...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u117	Mr President, may I reply to Mrs Faber for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u118	Of course. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u119	I haven't studied for anything, I'll say, but I've really understood that science is indeed capable of establishing objective facts based on subjective feelings. If that were not the case, then the world could work very badly. If one person says anything, it's not gonna do you much good. If a quarter of a population says anything, that's a fact. If you have any doubts... It is in these days to say: I am not interested in facts, but in opinions. I'm from another school. That may be old-fashioned, but I think you should look up facts and maybe you can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u120	I see Mr. Otten's at the interrupting microphone. Mr Otten, you know that it is customary for one spokesperson per group to hold the debate, otherwise we will have a debate with 75 spokesmen. So you are not supposed to speak on behalf of the same group as Mr De Vries. I would, of course, like to give you the floor, but I would like Mr De Vries to speak. I'm sure he can do that himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u121	No doubt, but I have a point of order. In fact, I noticed that two members of D66 were notified for the same debate tomorrow, but that aside. Mr President, you are now working with Mrs Faber and with Mr De Vries, in my opinion, very restrictively to regulate this debate in your opinion. I'm really asking you to let the people speak. We've got plenty of time. There's been a special migration to Monday. I would ask you not to restrict the debate to your own discretion and to guarantee people their freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u122	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Unfortunately, you will have to deal with my presidency. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u123	Mr. Chairman. I would have stuck to the observation that, on the basis of scientific research by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, it appears that discrimination is experienced by a large part of the population and that it is wise to consider whether this Parliament as a co-legislator plays a role in this. It doesn't say in that report that it does. We're gonna find out. We are not going to say in advance that it is: mea culpa, we have done it wrong. However, as a parliament we must say that this must be examined when there is such a great gap and so many people experience discrimination, when we really only want to create legislation that prevents or prevents discrimination. I therefore also agree with the general research question that the committee formulates. I also agree with the partial questions. I would ask the committee not only to focus on anti-discrimination legislation. In fact, I have the strong feeling that I cannot prove that scientifically and I therefore want to have examined the fact that, through a lot of ordinary legislation, we may be generating discriminatory risks or discriminatory effects. We have had the example of the premium affair, in which, in order to try to limit fraud, measures were taken that have led to discriminatory effects. Those were perhaps very deeply discriminatory effects. I would like to ask the committee in particular about this. How are we gonna get an eye on that? It's a little easier to see how a non-discrimination ban has worked out. But how are you going to do that with normal legislation? I can imagine that you are investigating whether legislation that leads to restrictions on the supply of, for example, homes, jobs, education and so on presents a discriminatory risk in any way. It is just a question for the committee, but I mean that we will not only have examined the official anti-discrimination laws and that we have overlooked the legislation that may be a bigger problem. Finally, Mr President. I have seen that the committee will consist of five to seven people. That seems very sensible to me. I think it is very sensible that we should look at how we can divide it between the parties. But I would not make the party criterion the most important. I would particularly look at which five to seven people might be best suited to do this work on the basis of these research questions. They are not doing it on behalf of their party or their group, but on behalf of the entire Chamber. Mr President, my far too early deceased friend Karel Glastra van Loon once wrote a wonderful sentence for our anthem: anyone who is afraid of what is strange is mainly himself inadequate. That, I think, should also be a part of this. How can it sometimes be that we are too little aware that people are afraid of what is strange and that they are therefore not only failing others but also themselves? That is also what the Social Cultural Planning Agency says: discrimination is not only very offensive and very profound to those affected, it is also for those who do it and for society as such a huge damage. If we trust each other more and are less afraid of what is strange, society would have a great advantage. That is an additional argument to say: let us start this investigation and let us do it in the period that has been set, namely a year, just like the previous parliamentary inquiry. That seems to us to be extremely good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u124	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Raven, who will speak on behalf of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u125	Mr. Chairman. First, thanks to the committee that conducted the preliminary investigation for a parliamentary investigation into anti-discrimination legislation. For the OSF, there is no discussion whatsoever about the need for such research. I refer here to a discussion that I brought into this Chamber a few weeks ago in relation to the addition of Article 1 of the Constitution. I have said, among other things, that the power of the rule of law is not so much a sign of how the law is written; the power of the rule of law is more a sign of how the law is respected, and that is where the problem lies. Discrimination is prohibited, but virtually no one is punished in the event of a violation. I have come to the conclusion from the documents that the committee sees this gap as well. This raises the question of whether it makes sense to refer to a question of research, namely: can a ban on discrimination be enforced more effectively? I miss that now. Perhaps I have missed it and it is in the spirit of the questions that have been asked and proposed, but I would like to give it a little bit of substance. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to raise another issue. You have chosen four categories that are close to the government. The OSF understands that. But I think we are missing a very important category: discrimination in the media. You see the rise of social media. Since that time, people have somehow felt free to shout all sorts of things about others that do not have the beauty prize. I don't think you can leave that issue out when we're talking about discrimination today. So I'd like to challenge you to think about that. You have indicated that the committee itself can supplement its own issues, but I would like to say that we think that this is a very important issue. It should also be examined, given the experience that each of us has with it. We therefore recommend to the committee that this point be added. I therefore refer to the media and, in particular, to discrimination in the media and social media in particular. Mr. Chairman. For discrimination in general and in particular for enforcement, we would also like to highlight the possibilities of involving arbitration. As you can see, I've started to say that there's little punishment for discrimination. It happens, we all see it and we let it happen. Isn't it better to set up some sort of arbitration at that point? You don't charge the judiciary with all these themes. In recent years 183 have been registered, I understood from Mrs Faber's contribution. It is, of course, a flood that comes after it, if you would investigate it further and check that figure. Is it not possible, in the form of arbitration, to gain more control over discriminatory expressions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u126	Mrs Faber, your fifth interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u127	Mr. Raven is talking about an arbitration committee or something, but there's also a Human Rights College. Aren't we gonna do the same thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u128	I'll give it my advice to investigate. If it's already there, it doesn't have to be double. But I do notice, as figures show, that there is little follow-up. People who are guilty of discriminatory comments do not notice that. If your organization does, maybe we should see if they're doing their job properly. But it could be an assignment we can take with us. Mr President, let me see if I've had it all. You said time is constant. I don't know if that's contrary to Einstein's theory of relativity. Mr. Chairman. The discussion about feelings. I am in politics; not only me, but also the representatives of the OSF and the local and regional parties. Especially feelings for us are facts. Where citizens report something that they are not entirely satisfied with, we are going to take action on it. So where it may not be fully scientifically substantiated, it is facts that we need to check out. That's actually our attitude in this story, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u129	Thank you, Mr. Raven. I would like to give the floor to Mr De Vries on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u130	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the research proposal on the effectiveness of anti-discrimination legislation. Our group supported parliamentary research and Mr Otten was also a member of the committee. The main question raised by the parliamentary inquiry into the effectiveness of anti-discrimination legislation is, and I quote the report of the Temporary Committee: 'What are the causes and possible solutions for the gap between the paper law and the law in practice when it comes to discrimination?'. Mr. Chairman. In our group's view, a major cause of systemic discrimination is the post-silver society organised on the basis of a Constitution based on primal-Dutch thinking and group thinking and as part of the pacific policy that was established a hundred years ago, in which, in short, universal suffrage was introduced in exchange for the introduction of special education. This might have been a solution to normalize relations in society at that time a hundred years ago, but in 2021 we are dealing with a far-reaching individualised society and a very different population composition than in 1920. Group thinking is deeply rooted in Dutch society. After the war there was a so-called breakthrough movement, in which people of all kinds of signature wanted to join forces to modernise the Netherlands and to get rid of this pen spirit. But soon the PvdA split off, this month 75 years ago. Shortly afterwards the VVD split off from the PvdA, and within no time the old hidden system was more or less restored. Our group has repeatedly recalled this: we are in politics to bring about the much-needed modernisation of Dutch politics. The institutionalised segregation, which the Constitution has in fact created in education, is an important cause of Dutch penguin thinking and therefore an important cause of systemic discrimination. Since childhood, Dutch people have been raised fairly segregated. The emergence of Islamic schools, made possible by Article 23 of the Constitution, is in fact further promoting this segregation. We assume the power of the individual and want people to be judged by their individual qualities and their individual behavior, not by gender, race, faith or whatever. That is why our group also insists on the necessary modernisation of the Constitution in order to free the Netherlands from institutionalized group thinking. As far as our group is concerned, this aspect is an important part of answering the committee's research question. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to another aspect of the cause of the gap between legislation and practice when it comes to discrimination. That is what we call the 'normalisation of extremist ideas'. This weekend we heard the leader of a certain movement in Vlissingen calling out the most rabid things about "forming a civilian army to rage the Dutch people." It was also openly called upon not to employ certain people and to have your house painted alone by a painter of his own accord. This appeal alone is completely contrary to the General Law on Equal Treatment and Article 1 of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. I quote Edmund Burke: "All for evil to triumph, is for good men to do nothing." With this statement I conclude this speech and I have a sincere request to this committee: also add standardisation of extremist ideas as a subject to the research design. Then you will be very pleased with our group. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u131	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Jorritsma-Lebbink on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u132	Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, discrimination is neither left nor right. It belongs to all of us. Article 1 of the Constitution is there for a reason. In my opinion, this was once unanimously voted in favour and every time we make changes to Article 1 in order to strengthen it even further, a large majority is in favour. Sometimes I think we should go back. It should be a general anti-discrimination clause; discrimination should not be allowed in this country. Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the Committee on the fact that, in the short time it has done this work, it has carried out a very thorough analysis, also to see how to deal with it. Because that is something that we had not really thought about when we tabled the motion. In the meantime, you have done so, I would like to say to the chairman and the committee. We are of the opinion that we should limit ourselves to the quality and effects of legislation and policies. It seems to us to be very sensible to look at this whole chain, starting with the Constitution, the international treaties, then functional and sectoral laws, then policy, and then, for that is also part of the experience of citizens. The subject is still a mer à boire. If I hear everyone here like that, then it can also be a mer à boire if we are going to honour all the wishes, although I think that many of those wishes are best suited to the choices made by the committee. The committee has chosen three sectors and one organisation. I'd like to get an explanation on that. I would like to know how the committee made this choice. Labour market, education and social security are real policy sectors, while the police are one organisation. That's a little bit different, isn't it? However, I am of course curious as to how experienced discrimination is dealt with in many areas. That could be his age discrimination, which could be how the police experience it when they get reports of homosexual people who are no longer afraid to walk alone on the street or hand in hand. That's the type we're talking about. It's about how people experience it and what we can do to stop it. What can we, as legislators, do to counter this? Or isn't it with us at all? I think that is a very interesting and important question, because we are making laws that need to be implemented. Finally, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also welcomes the proposal not to make the committee too large. I would like to give you: try to make that committee very diverse. Then I'm not just talking about man-woman, I'm talking about left-right, too. Get it rubbed on the committee. There must be strong discussions there. I therefore hope that those who are so critical in this debate today will do so for the committee, because that is important. As far as I am concerned, the committee may be set up as soon as possible. I am very pleased that transparency has also been used on costs. That's the spirit. I can tell you that every day in this house people are asked to investigate and usually they don't ask about the costs. I am glad that the committee has simply indicated that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u133	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I call Mr Van Kesteren, who will speak on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of the Christian Union Group this afternoon. Mr. Chairman. We also see too often in our country that people from the Ihbti community cannot safely cross the street, simply because of who they are. The reports of violence on the streets against Ihbti'ers have not only increased in recent years. An evaluation of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau of the Participation Act shows that, despite all good intentions, it is not easy for people with disabilities to find work. The labour market is often a maze with many discriminatory sides. These developments lead to reflection and call for action. Discrimination is an evil that has drawn indelible traces in history and caused a lot of misery. It comes from a deep-seated lack of tolerance and distance from what and who is different. It's a matter of faith and civilisation to fight that. We have therefore taken note with approval of the government's plans for a national coordinator and a state committee. Our own Chamber has also stated by way of a motion that it should assume its responsibilities. Today the report of the Temporary Committee is before us. I would like to thank the members of the committee and in particular its chairman and Registrar for their smooth and careful work. The groups of CDA and Christian Union are happy to support the committee's proposal to opt for a parliamentary inquiry. They sincerely hope that the work of the Committee of Inquiry will actually contribute to an answer to the question of how to close the gap between discrimination in law and discrimination in practice. Mr. Chairman. Everyone must do what is in their capacity to combat discrimination. We hope that the research will strengthen the understanding of the First Chamber and thus lead to a better assessment of legislation and, in particular, its implementation. Whether it'll be enough, we'll see. We are not reassured in advance. After all, you and I know that life is stronger than doctrine, as it turns out for decades. But all the more so we welcome the fact that our own Chamber also wants to make a substantial contribution to reducing discrimination in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u135	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord, who will speak on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u136	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I too would like to express my thanks and appreciation for the members of the preparatory committee, the Registry and the official organisation. My group believes that legislation should protect people from discrimination, whether intended or unintentional. That is why we are also pleased that the initiative proposal to add disability and sexual orientation to Article 1 of the Constitution was adopted by a large majority at first reading. Hopefully this will be ratified at second reading. Of course, the D66 Group is aware that the constitutional anchoring of anti-discrimination legislation does not mean that there is no discrimination, sexism or racism in practice. For too many people constitutional law is in practice a paper reality: a difference between law on the books and law in action. That is why we have supported the motion on which this report from the Temporary Committee on the Preparation of Parliamentary Research is based. We support the committee's proposal that parliamentary research should focus on the chain model, namely the Constitution, the international treaties, the law in a formal sense, the policy, the impact of the policy and, indeed, the experience of people. In addition, my group agrees that in parliamentary research there is attention to those sectors, namely labour market, education, social security and police, in which the government itself provides services, or sectors that are highly regulated by the government and which, despite clearly anti-discriminatory legislation, are clearly discriminated against or have experience of discrimination. My group considers it important that there is sufficient diversity of perspectives and experiences in the choices for the cases in the research. Setting up a sounding board group can certainly contribute to this, provided it is sufficiently diverse. My group would like to hear how this sounding board group is being set up. Finally. When we look at the difference between the law on paper and the law in practice, it is important that this Chamber also dares to look in the mirror with the question of whether it is possible to adopt laws here that in practice lead to actual or experienced discrimination. So we would also like to pay attention to our role and how we could improve it. In a country where, according to the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, Experienced discrimination in the Netherlands, which has already been mentioned several times, one in four Dutch people experience discrimination, it is indeed on our way to question the extent to which legislation contributes to experienced discrimination and to what extent legislation does not provide adequate protection against discrimination. That is why my group supports this research proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u137	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I cannot stress it enough: we reject discrimination. I made this clear in the General Political Reviews when it was about whether there should be an investigation into the situation regarding discrimination. It is a widely shared point of constant concern, even in this house. Tomorrow, a motion from my hand will be put to the vote to counter discrimination. That is the motion on combating abortion on grounds of disability. Those General Political Reviews, in the autumn of 2020, also covered all this, especially when a parliamentary inquiry was being discussed. I said on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that we felt that we were in the process of swimping in the trap of a temporary special committee with a view to the questioning, scope and necessity of the parliamentary inquiry in question. Then the decision on a parliamentary inquiry is actually a race that is almost over. Today it appears that this is true, at least there is now a proposal for it. My group has some serious reservations for us. First of all, we object to the suggestion that there would be discrimination of a systemic nature. Let's be careful with that terminology. It doesn't do justice to reality. Of course, I say this with regard to those who do have to deal with constant discrimination, but also with the purely constitutional reasoning that you should not agree with everything that is legally guaranteed in society. For example, from faith you may find something of that, of course, subject to everyone's responsibility according to the law. Secondly, my group feels that it is a heavy burden on the staff of the First Chamber, especially at the moment, while there are proposals to extend the Registry in relation to the workload, partly caused by the coronapandemic, a crisis that demands the utmost of the entire staff. Why should it be entrusted with an investigation which does not necessarily have to be carried out by this Chamber? My third point is that this research is a heavy financial burden. In the end, this has been watered down, but the budget shows €735,000. Along with the previous point on staff taxation, the question of the SGP remains whether this is a task for this Chamber. I would like to say a few words about this. That was not yet discussed at the time when we held the General Political Reviews. Now that this state committee is being set up, this question is even more pressing: why continue swimming in the trap opened by the General Reviews? And what if, in certain cases, there were forms of systemic discrimination, is it not the task of the State Commission to investigate them and to put their finger on them? Mr. Chairman. This does not mean that no good work has been done by the working group which has prepared all this. My group has also raised points which have been very well incorporated into the overall set-up. That means the work hasn't been for nothing so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u139	Perhaps also here for the facts: is Mr Schalk aware that before the summer of 2020 the House of Representatives adopted a motion aimed at setting up a state committee and that the Prime Minister spoke the same way he spoke here in October?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u140	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u141	Then why do you say that it was not known at the time that the State Commission would be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u142	I'm sorry, I misspelled that. The promise that this state committee will be there has, in my opinion, come to me after our General Political Reviews, but if that was much earlier, then I have just misspelled it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u143	Yeah, okay, so you misspelled that. That is why history has been done right, and this argument has been rejected in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u144	It remains to be seen whether this is the end of the argument, because although the Prime Minister has said so, this Chamber can still decide independently whether or not that State Commission would be sufficient. As far as I am concerned, that should at least be a matter of consideration. As I said, good work has been done in the overall design and the work has not been for nothing. However, it is now up to us to make a choice. My group proposes that the report be drawn up and that it be submitted to the state committee which will examine discrimination and racism. I know that the temporary committee has found that these investigations would be complementary to each other and I say to Mrs Nanninga: see page 9 of the report of the Committee of Inquiry, but the question to the temporary committee is whether the government also thinks they are complementary. I see in these documents only that the temporary committee thinks so. As far as I am concerned, this is all the more reason to invest it with the state committee. A small working group from this Chamber would then be able to monitor whether the parts considered relevant here will be carefully part of a wider investigation. My question to the temporary committee is whether this option has also been considered and, if so, what the outcome of these considerations is. Can you still point that out? Mr. Chairman. This debate raised the question of whether all members of the temporary committee were in favour of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, which was raised by Mr Rosenmöller. I don't think that's the case. That was not a condition to participate in the preparations for this report. My group, in its vote against during the General Political Reviews, has, of course, indicated that it is constructive. That applies to the route so far, and that will also be the case if this proposal is accepted, which I do not think is entirely unlikely. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the response of the temporary committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u145	If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to add, although I know that this is not officially permitted. I'm kind of involved. Firstly, I think that Mr Schalk had a good input.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u147	First time!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u148	Well, he's got a lot of good things. I thought I'd give you a compliment. Let's get back to being complementary. I had asked Mrs Nanninga whether the Minister also considered it complementary and not whether the temporary committee considered it complementary, because I believe it did. I am therefore concerned about the Minister, for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u149	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u150	That is a very good question, but that is exactly the question I have just asked. I told Mrs Nanninga that the report said that the committee considered it complementary. I asked whether the government, and I think the Minister, is of the same opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u151	You agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u153	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u154	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the research proposal of the Temporary Committee on the Preparation of Parliamentary Research Effectiveness of anti-discrimination legislation. We are now ready for the answer of the temporary committee in the first term. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort, Chairman of the Temporary Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for their strong support and for the critical questions, because they only help to have the conversation with each other. It is actually a very nice conversation, because we share at least one intention, as I have heard throughout the debate so far, namely that discrimination is undesirable. Of course, that's not so weird. We have a Constitution that starts with Article 1, which also applies the principle of anti-discrimination. We all promised at the time of joining this Chamber that we would also be faithful to that Constitution. That we stand up for what is stated in Article 1 is something that is entirely in line with what you might expect from people's representatives. Recently we talked about Article 1 of the Constitution and its adaptation, because discrimination always remains a theme. In social developments there are always issues that are important in this respect. Then we have to ask again: how exactly do we do that, how do we ensure that this basic intention we share with each other also comes into its own in how our Constitution works, in how the underlying laws function, in how it works? Discrimination remains a theme. That's why we need laws; because things don't go well by themselves. And because we cannot cover everything and it has so many appearances, we have worked out this proposal with the committee. Perhaps it would be useful to do a little bit of the answer to the questions that have been asked, in line with the order in the research proposal, in line with various parts of that proposal. I shall begin with the introduction, which includes a comment on the composition of the committee, which was fortunately very broad, so that almost all the groups were represented. We have also been able to discuss many of these questions within that committee. Mr Rosenmöller was right to ask whether consensus means that all members of the committee fully agree with this. I would like to underline the answer given by Mr Schalk. The whole committee says this is a good report to offer to the Chamber. As a committee, we said: if you want to do the investigation, it could look like sister and everything. The whole committee thinks it's a good form to do it this way. But that does not mean that all the committee members have already given their agreement on behalf of their group in advance, because we would not need a debate at all. So yes, this is supported as a proposal, but that does not mean that groups represented in committee will by definition agree today or tomorrow. I hope so, of course. I assume that the committee's proposal is not only formally broad-based, but that it is also materially convincing. But that's where the questions start, of course. The first block of questions is about the cause. What do we see now? What do we see happening in society? What kind of problem do we see there? Et cetera. The basic observation is that protection against discrimination is well regulated in law but often not in practice. A number of comments and questions have been made on this point, which I would like to comment on. Mr Frentrop asked for an addendum with a number of corrections. I don't know if that's gonna work at all. This proposal is there. The Acts will be forwarded to the new committee, so they can take note of all the comments that have been made here. However, I would like to say something about the reading on page 1 at the bottom, about the occasion. Mr Frentrop says: it seems that the committee is afraid of discrimination. But that's not what it says. It says, "Distinction exists. We make a distinction and that is often not problematic." Mr Frentrop goes a little further by saying that it is never problematic, but I think he also contradicted himself later, because he said that only forbidden discrimination is problematic. But if that exists, then some distinction is problematic, because it is forbidden. Or the other way around: forbidden because it's problematic. This is about discrimination and not about discrimination in general. It says that discrimination is an important issue. But how do you delineate that? Because it's not just about people's feelings and experiences. You want to objectify it somehow. The first part of the reason, under paragraph 1, is about how you define that concept in a good way. Not all distinction is a problem, but where it is not objective and not necessary, it can become a problem. In particular, where human dignity is at stake at some point, as has also been mentioned in the debate. By the way, that is a quote from Minister De Gaay Fortman from 1976, when that discussion was already taking place. In other words, I would like to say in this section in particular that it is not so much about discrimination as it is about discrimination. That's the core concept of this whole story. Mrs Faber asked: you apparently find that there is such a gap, but what do you base it on? She mentioned the number of reports and the like, and a number of other cases. I would like to refer to page 3. There are a number of studies that show this. This is just the tip of the iceberg, I would like to say to Mrs Faber. A broader overview has already begun. I understand that twenty pages of research titles have now been drawn up that the committee should seek out. Of course, we have not all included them in this proposal, but it is sufficient to say that there is at least a serious question. Looks like there's a serious problem. This is not just about the number of reports, but about this broader analysis that you see structural forms of discrimination in different areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u156	I would like to ask Mr Ruard...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u157	Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u158	Ganzevoort. Yeah, sorry! Mr. Ganzevoort, excuse me for that. Now I'm all messed up. Reference is also made, for example, to the College of Human Rights. That's called for a judgment. Then I went to look into that, because I thought: maybe they have a point; maybe I missed something myself. When I went to the college to check that out, I noticed that there were 541 requests in 2019, for example. The report also refers to such a large number. But these are 541 requests, 137 of which have been dealt with. Of these 68 have been assessed as prohibited distinctions. Then I'll come back to a population of 17.4 million. Again, I think 68 cases of forbidden discrimination are too much. We agree on this, but of course it is not much in proportion. For example, I have also looked at the number of notifications. I didn't know at all that municipalities have a hotline for discrimination. That was all news to me. But then I did the math. Then I'm gonna come up with the next thing. In 2018, there were 11.3 reports per municipality. In 2019 there were 12.3 reports per municipality. Then you think it's getting worse, but the number of municipalities has declined.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u159	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u160	So the question is... so there's a reference to notifications, but those reports aren't that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u161	Mrs Faber is now concentrating on one aspect: how many reports are there of a particular species? She also knows the image of the iceberg and the part above water and the part under water. This is always the case with reports. Only a small part of it is reported. It's good to at least see what's going on. That is why we say that the committee should start by making a more detailed analysis of the factuality. How big is it really, what is it in and what elements play a major role? Those are all things that are part of that investigation. The fact that 20 pages of research titles have already been collected in a short period of time and that there is evidently discriminatory experience in many areas, so the fact that this is so broad, is the reason to look at this. You are now extracting a type of notification. That says something and is important too, but that does not mean everything. A lot of research not only looks at what has actually been reported, but also looks at things that have not been reported but that do have a lot of impact on people's lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u162	But you can't assume things that haven't been reported, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u163	You can't assume things that aren't there. That's different. I think we can agree on that. But not all people's experiences are reported to an official body. Sometimes they come up with other forms of research. I would like to give an example of the whole discussion that has been going on about the premium affair. There are many elements in this too, the question of which is now clearly on the table whether or not there has been any form of discrimination. Not all these experiences have been reported, but that does not mean that they are not real.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u164	Mrs Faber, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u165	But I'm just gonna stick to the reports that came to the municipalities at the hotlines. I do not think we are getting closer to each other on this point, but I would prefer to take concrete figures myself. I do not mean to offend you, but I think the rest is a bit of an air bike ride; I hope you will not blame me, but that is my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u166	I don't blame anyone who talks about cycling and certainly not when it's allowed to happen in the open, but the number of reports is not the only issue. It is also about discriminatory requests from potential contractors in the temporary agency sector, for example. Several examples have been mentioned here. There are another 20 pages with examples. Reports are an aspect of that. I would therefore ask Mrs Faber not to limit it to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u167	For the Acts we write "open-air cyclistry" as neologism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u168	I would like to return to a previous point made by Mr Ganzevoort in reply to my questions. I would like to quote something that I think is really wrong in the report: 'Distinction for which there is no objective and reasonable justice is problematic and prohibited under national and international law'. That's what the committee says. Then she says: within that prohibited category of discrimination discrimination takes a prominent place. What matters to me is that the committee says that all the distinctions we agree that discrimination is prohibited, and for which there is no objective and reasonable justification, well, I like milk chocolate and not pure chocolate..... is problematic and is prohibited under national and international law. I think that's incorrect. Unless you can convince me now that it is right, then point out to me where international law states that you must not discriminate on unreasonable grounds. Otherwise, it really needs to be corrected. So I would like an addendum to the corrections. Is Mr Ganzevoort prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u169	The proposal with the Acts of the debate we are having here goes to the final committee when it is put in place. The reasoning that is followed is that if you cannot justify that distinction but that it harms... I think this should indeed have been included in that first sentence. I'd like to admit that. It is therefore a question of distinguishing one from the other and for which there is no objective and reasonable justification, which is problematic. That...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u170	But then I say...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u171	Mr. Frentrop, let Mr. Ganzevoort finish his story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u172	And that in turn leads to the definition of discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u173	I admit that I will forward the debates to the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u174	So you see, a text can always be formulated better and sharper, but it is about the distinction that harms people. That is the point that we are talking about here. We were at Mrs Faber's question about the gap she noticed. Then she continued with the point of objective or subjective, an important point. We have also indicated this in the chain model. Hence the fifth layer, about people's experiences. Of course, there you are very much on the subjective side: what is the perception of people, what do they notice in their daily existence of this discrimination? In the proposal we write that this is important, but it is not at the heart of this research. If the law does not comply, the Chamber must indeed reflect on whether it has done its job properly, so I quote Mrs Faber. That is exactly what we are proposing here. We do not propose to carry out extensive research into this subjective experience, but that subjective experience can be an indication of an objective point in policy and policy effects arising from government action, regulation, legislation and so on. So it's about that chain where you see the connections. The subjective experience as such is not central to this research, but is an element of that chain and can therefore be an indication of the whole. The essence of this research is precisely the question raised by Mr Kox: can it be the way we, as co-legislator, do our job? That's the core of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u175	Mrs Faber on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u176	Well, I don't quite understand. The report does deal with the number of notifications and the College of Human Rights. Those are all subjective reports, subjective facts, to name but a few "facts." That was one of the triggers to set up this temporary committee and to produce this report. Then you can't say: we're not going to investigate? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u177	That's not what I'm saying either. I say that there are reports and all kinds of investigations, including from the College of Human Rights. Apart from reports, this also does independent research into different grounds for discrimination. From these various reports and investigations, the picture emerges that, despite what we all want here, discrimination is a structural element in our society. This applies not only to what citizens do among themselves, i.e. to each other, but also to the functioning of public services and highly regulated sectors. The question that we, as a committee, put at the heart of the motion that has been adopted here is: if that is the case, can we get a grip on what it is in and on what buttons you can turn to make anti-discrimination policy more effective? That is the crux of the matter. I think we're a long way off. On the subjective point, we recognise that, but that is not the central issue here. I think Mrs Faber is saying the same thing herself. We want to focus on what is happening in policy and legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u178	But the number of reports was a trigger to make this report. That's kind of intertwined with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u179	But the number of reports isn't... that's one of the signs that something's happening, but they're next to the broader surveys that've been going on for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u180	Mr Schalk of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u181	I have a brief question for Mr Rosenmöller. Excuse me, listen to me, with "Mr. Rosenmöller." I mean Mr. Ganzevoort. He says, "We look alike." No, not at all. I have a question about what you have just exchanged with Mrs Faber. You said that we really want to examine whether we are doing well here, in our work, in relation to legislation and so on. Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u182	It's a parliamentary investigation. This means that the focus is also on parliamentary work and that we look at the chain of Constitution, law in a formal sense, government policy, its effects and people's perception. We play a role in that chain. One of the questions that is then very relevant, especially for us as chambre de réflexion, is: can we do better, can we increase effectiveness?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u183	Mr. Schalk, no more? Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u184	So less focus on the experience and subjectivity and more focus on what the government does. This also says something about the sectors we have chosen: sectors in which the government plays an important role in managing or regulating. Mr Frentrop rightly says that the law is not always followed does not mean that there is a gap. I couldn't agree more. That's exactly what I said with the offer last week. Mr Van Kesteren says: life is stronger than doctrine. But he did add something: the more important it is to see what we can do, to see where the elements are that make life stronger than the teachings and to make sure that that does not happen, what we consider important to each other. Sometimes that is indeed the point that enforcement has mentioned, and sometimes it is also because there are elements in our legislation or policies that are actually a kind of perverse incentive in this context, which do something different than what we want to do with each other in Article 1 of the Constitution. So that's why the focus is always on government regulation and dealing with government. Mr De Vries said that discrimination has to do with group thinking in a post-shielded society. That's a bit of a crossover analysis. I can sympathise with that personally, I shall say, but the question is once again the focus of this research. That focus is: what exactly does the government do? How can we, along the lines of legislation, along the lines of policy, reduce the experience of discrimination? Then a subject like education, and segregation in education, is certainly a theme. That's also mentioned. That is why I am also saying that education could really be a sector in which that is important. Whether or not that is due to Article 23 is the question. The proposal certainly deals with segregation, but especially with matters such as socio-economic segregation. That is a very different dimension of segregation than Mr De Vries mentioned. But that element is definitely in there. At fine-tuning, that question will come back. Those were my comments on the general part. Then I'll get to the design of the investigation. There is also the choice to say: let's focus on four cases. We do that because with that case approach you can actually get a very broad insight into what is going on with a relatively clear amount of work. If you focus on one case, the big risk is that you will also get a picture of all the coincidences of that case. By looking at four cases you get much more a kind of width in your research, so you can also make the right comparison. Then you can say: these are patterns that you see coming back over and over again. Our question was: what is the focus of the research now? It's in government business. It lies in regulation and government transactions in implementation. This means that it becomes relevant to see if you have four cases that are also a bit different at that point and where the intensity of government intervention is also different. This is perhaps the least in the labour market, which is already a bit sharper in education, which is, of course, even sharper in social security, and which is perhaps even stronger in the police. Mrs Jorritsma asked: but isn't the latter a bit weird, because the police aren't really a sector; the police are much more of a service, an organisation? I'd say the police are both, actually. She is both an organisation of her own, a service with direct control, but she is also a very important actor when it comes to the whole field of public order. I think public order might be a sector, only then zoomed in here on police. That is the choice presented here. So the idea is actually: see if the different nature of government intervention in those four sectors might give us an insight into how it can work out. Mr Rosenmöller rightly asked: are all four essential or are only labour markets and education essential to this proposal? The proposal is indeed somewhat ambivalent about that. This ambivalence has to do with the fact that the Committee on Labour Market and Education says: these are areas where these questions are fairly evident and important at the moment. In the case of social security, this question certainly plays a role as well. Look at the supplementing affair, but it is conceivable that in the next few months there will be all kinds of political developments in the House of Representatives, with questions such as how they deal with this and so on, which makes the final committee say: would it not be wise to choose a different sector instead, for example the housing market? That is why it has been formulated in this way. That in answer to the question: what exactly is the situation with the overlap with other investigations? The idea of the committee is that you have a nice steel map with these four. I would like to follow up on this with the answer to Mrs Nanninga's question. She asked: does the committee have carte blanche to amend the whole proposal? That is not our intention as a preparatory committee. The idea is that the main line of this research is very clear. The key question on the table is: where is the gap between the law on paper and the law in practice? How can you analyse this, how can you compare it internationally, and what possible direction of solution does that lead to? That's basically the point. If the committee were to come up with a report which is going in a completely different direction, it would seem obvious to me that the committee that conducts the investigation will eventually be asked about it and that is said: hey, but this is not what we agreed on. However, as a preparatory committee, we do think that we should be careful not to close too much now. What if the housing market turns out to be a more effective case for this research than social security, for example? Then it would be a pity if we had boarded that up completely and then again had to settle it with amendments and new mandates. So the main line is very clear. If you can fine tune that to achieve the same goal, that's okay. If you want to achieve a completely different goal, that's not okay. I think that is also an answer to the question of how the committee ensures that the investigation does not degenerate into woke activism, as far as I understand those words; that is always a little complicated for me. I think that's secured by those research questions, by the question: where do you see this gap between law and practice? Then we are not purely in the corner of subjective experience, but precisely in the connection of legislation, policy implementation and policy effects. We want to get an answer to that and we want to see which buttons we can turn to improve that. Maybe I can go along with what Mrs Faber has just said about those reports, some of which are regarded as well-founded. I think that is a good example that is far from objectifying every experience and that not every experience leads to steps either. I think it would be appropriate for a rule of law to take what people experience very seriously, but not to say to everyone on the blue eyes: well, if you find something annoying, then that is a problem. Right there are all these steps. Can you objectify it? Does it affect policy? What does it do to people? Where's the law? Mr Frentrop asked why there was no attention to the discrimination of white people and to discrimination based on political colour. Is that seriously considered? Mrs Nanninga asked why attention should be paid to a migration background and not to a non-migration background? The thought that we have followed is that of course we see these kinds of elements. In general terms, political orientation is also mentioned on page 6. On page 3, the case of positive discrimination is mentioned at TU Eindhoven and the questions it has raised. Those questions have therefore been raised, but we have chosen to choose a systematic research route. That is something Mr Frentrop, as a scientist, must address. Where do you get answers to the questions you have? You look for this place by selecting a number of cases that will contribute optimally to our understanding and by spreading them in such a way that different grounds for discrimination can be addressed in a different way. So you don't have a total cover story........ but you have enough insight into the things you say "they could indeed play well" so that they can come into view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u185	That's the heart of the matter, des Pudels Kern. Four cases have been selected to achieve the different grounds for discrimination. The grounds for discrimination for which I have asked for particular attention are the political colour and discrimination of white people. Political color isn't in those four cases. In each case, it is precisely stated that this does indeed appeal to me to what grounds of discrimination are being examined. Now you say: political color is mentioned on page 6. But the point is that this should be investigated in one of the cases. One of the cases should also focus on political colour. Just for a moment: today we are celebrating the fifteenth anniversary of the PVV, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, but there are no PVV mayors, I believe. That's typically something that would fit. I do not need to give examples to the committee: it is not all there. Discrimination of white people does not occur in any of the cases. Hence my question: can you not trade in one of the cases or think of something that will deal with these issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u186	The committee to be set up can still fine tune. If that were desirable, it could be. The route we have chosen is not: what grounds for discrimination are there and can we come up with a case? We have said: in what case do we see at this moment that these questions are big? I can well imagine that when we examine the labour market, for example, about the question... I have heard this before in this Chamber from the PVV. It was said: if you are known as a PVV, you can encounter obstacles in all kinds of ways in the labour market. If the committee opposes this, it is certainly part of that. We have based our choice of case and how we can work it out, now based on what we already know from existing research, also from an efficiency of research.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u187	I have a supplementary question for Mr Ganzevoort, because it is precisely in the labour market that discrimination in political colours could well be discussed; I agree with him. But what do I read at "work market"? This case study should focus on the position of women, of people with a migration background and of the disabled and of age discrimination. Political discrimination is not included. That could have been so good. Are you prepared to add that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u188	The proposal is fairly evidence-based in this respect, I say to Mr Frentrop. In the sense that it is based on the long list of studies that show: these and these elements can be seen in the labour market problem. I'll check with the clerk, but in the light of time I say that we haven't come across any investigations that show that this subjective experience that you may have a problem on the labour market based on your political colour is objectively supported by research. We just didn't come across that. If so, please invite Mr Frentrop and others to pass on the titles of such studies so that the committee can take them with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u189	Here's to it. A study on the mayoral names in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u190	Has it been done yet? Then we'd be happy to take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u191	We can do it here. How many PVV mayors are there? I can give you the answer immediately: zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u192	The point I made was not so much: do you have another grade of some category et cetera? The point I made was the choice of the case. We said, "What are the reasons for this? Let us base our efforts on existing research." If there are gaps in our knowledge, we will be happy to include them in passing them on to the committee. In the investigation we have encountered so far, the grounds for discrimination 'political orientation' on the labour market as such have not yet emerged. But if those investigations are already there, we'd be happy to pass them on to the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u193	This can be done through the resolutions of this debate. Finally, Mr Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u194	Last but not least, a remark. We started by saying that it is not just about the hard facts, but also about the fact that people feel discriminated against. I know there are a lot of people who feel discriminated against because of their political colour. I would like to pass that on to the Committee of Inquiry if there is one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u195	Thank you. Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u196	It's about that connection. We take the subjective experience seriously, but we try to objectify it. That is exactly the point Mrs Faber rightly made: be careful that you do not just go into the subjective experience. The system that's in here is that we choose a number of cases that give us insight into that chain. We are looking at which grounds, in particular, are particularly important; that word is always used in the case But if such a case study, for example, reveals political orientation or whiteness as grounds for discrimination, that is of course part of the research.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u197	I'd like to take a look at those tests anyway. Mr. Ganzevoort says: I do not know these investigations about discrimination based on political orientation. But isn't that because such investigations aren't desirable? It is often the case that universities carry out such studies. Universities are a bit coloured after all. Of course, we've had a rector magnificus at Radboud University. You know this university that was just going to file a complaint against Geert Wilders. He hung up pamphlets in his university and called the students to go on goose passes, to fill out pre-printed forms with a few hundred men to file a complaint against Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u198	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u199	The question is: is this not the reason why there are no investigations, because it is not politically and universityly desirable to carry out such an investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u200	I would almost say: fortunately not all research is done by universities. There are all kinds of other institutions that are also doing research. We're not familiar with these investigations. Mrs Faber just kept asking about some sort of evidence-based approach, how much do we really know, but what we don't know as a committee, we can't imagine either. So that makes it a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u201	That's why I find these reports that haven't been made so complicated. Of course, that is exactly my point: everything that has not been reported is simply not there. Let me come back to my question again: can the reason why there are no investigations not be that it is politically undesirable that such investigations should be conducted on grounds of discrimination based on political orientation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u202	Part of this is a repetition of the conversation we had before. Maybe that's why it's not so convenient to go too deep into that. But the essential point is, of course, that we are proposing a study to see where it plays a role in public function and in government regulation. In line with what Mrs Faber said about this: if there are signs that there is indeed structural discrimination based on political orientation... We would like to see these signals in the form of research already carried out, because of course the committee is not going to carry out empirical research on its own. But if there is, let me know. We'll play it through the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u203	And through these Acts, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u204	Mr. Ganzevoort says it's a repeat of moves, but I can't get an answer to my question. Could it be that these investigations are not there because it is not politically desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u205	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u206	That is a question I cannot answer on behalf of the preparatory committee. It is not my role to say anything about the political desirability of the studies being carried out at universities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u207	Then we're gonna have to do it with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u208	Then I'll come to the delineation. Mr Kox said: look not only at specific anti-discrimination legislation, but other legislation can also have discriminatory effects. This is a very valid point, and that is why we are proposing this chain model. It is not just the very specific anti-discrimination laws, but also the possibility that social security, education, housing market and so on may include elements that can have that effect unintentionally or unintentionally. In the analytical questions and the partial questions, that element is mentioned among other things. For example, it relates to the elements of the legislation itself, but also to the conflicting impulses by which public authorities and civil society actors develop discriminatory policies. I think that is exactly the point that Mr Kox made in our view. On page 8 it is mentioned as one of the possible factors involved: in view of the complexity and communication in social security. On this point, Mr Raven asked whether enforcement should be included more explicitly in the research questions. The answer is that that is definitely the intention. This is also mentioned in the analytical sub-questions, as it says: prioritisation in government enforcement policy. The whole point of enforcement is clearly meant by this. He asked whether arbitration is a better route than lawsuits. That is indeed an interesting one, especially when you are specifically talking about the reports that have been made. Would that help there? It is a question that goes a little beyond the question of parliamentary action and the chain model as such. That's why we didn't specifically mention it. The same is true in the case of discrimination through social media, because public trade and government regulation do not play a central role in this. Mr Raven asks important questions, but they are actually a little outside the scope of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u209	Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u210	In the social media you can actually see that there is about an institutionalization of the legalization of discrimination. Anyone can write on it and you can see the craziest things coming along, things that we simply don't accept in the normal language and in the mutual human contacts. What you run into is that you often get the story "that's very difficult; don't report it" when you go to the police to report it. That's what you see more often in the normal declaration work. In my area there are at least three, four people who were seriously discriminated against...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u211	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u212	The question, Mr President, is that it would be very unfortunate if you did not take this with you, because this is a sea of trouble. And we wouldn't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u213	Yes, but when choosing a parliamentary inquiry, we mainly look at what the government does in terms of direction, legislation and regulation, policies and their effects. So we are not looking at all discrimination in all places and everywhere. Now, of course, you might ask yourself whether there are no existing laws that should prohibit and enforce this. The enforcement question is relevant, and if the committee is indeed in line with the proposal to choose the police as one of the domains, then the enforcement question will of course also be explicitly addressed. To what extent is the police able and willing to tackle discrimination issues and deal with complaints? Along that line, I think it would fit well. But social media as a separate domain, that seems complicated to me, precisely because the government plays a very small role in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u214	But in such a situation, you could use arbitration. Somehow that needs to be organized. In that we could also as a government set a line, of: how do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u215	That might indeed be possible, but I think Mr Raven understands that the committee has been very committed not to let it go any further. Discrimination goes all over the place and it's all about everything. The basic choice was to say: let's focus on sectors in which the government itself is highly regulated, and where anti-discrimination legislation may or apparently does not have sufficient effect. Then this one just dropped off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u216	Finally, Mr Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u217	Last question about the police. I've indicated that people often get the advice to just drop that report. I would like you to include in your investigation how often that occurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u218	It's just gonna have to figure out whose investigation it's gonna be. I'm chairman of the preparatory committee. If the Chamber decides to set up a committee, then the staff will follow. But the issue of enforcement has been mentioned. This is in the first block of analysis questions, of: are there elements in the prioritisation and enforcement policy that could maintain discrimination? Then I come to Mr De Vries' question to add the normalization of extremist ideas to the scheme. In addition, I have a bit of the same question. This normalization is not really public policy or government regulation. So the question is, how far can you go with that? What is mentioned in the education sector is the increase in anti-Semitism. This is, of course, one of the forms of extremist thought which certainly deserves our attention and our concern. In a way, that would be my suggestion. It can also function pars pro toto for the wider question of how we deal with extremist thinking, to keep it pragmatically a bit sustainable. Finally, in this context, Mr Schalk said that we must beware of the term'systemic discrimination'. I have not checked all the rules on this, but I think we are using the term'structural discrimination' in particular. There is, of course, a lot of discussion about this: institutional, systemic, structural and so on. What we mean to say in this proposal is that we should not talk about all kinds of isolated incidents in which one citizen says something to another citizen on the basis of personal qualities, but that we as a senate have a particular responsibility for where discriminatory elements are in our processes, structures, rules, legislation and so on. The word "structural" has been used for this purpose. It can sometimes have a structural character or be anchored in structures. There is, I think, a question: we look at the structures and not at incidents. Whether to call it "systemic" or not is a substantive, but sometimes also a semantic discussion. That puts me at the end of block two across the board. That was, I think, the biggest block. Then I come to block three over the confluence. Why don't we let the state committee do its job first? Mrs Faber asked, and Mr Schalk agreed. It is also asked whether the Minister sees it that way. The committee does say that we see complementarity in particular, but does the Minister agree? Reference has already been made to the Prime Minister, who did embrace it. The reason it stands as it stands is that the Vice-President and I have had a conversation with the Minister, but that has obviously been a private conversation. Our observation based on that discussion is that there is complementarity and that we see it again and again, that the Minister sees it as well. But to quote the Minister from a private consultation, we felt that this report went a little too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u219	Mrs. Faber. Would you like to put on a mask while walking through the hall, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u220	Of course, we'll be put on the spot. It is to the credit of the chairman of the committee that he does not leave the school about the minister, but there are, of course, certain issues in the report about that consultation. It also states, for example, that we assume that this is mutual. I understand that there is a need for cooperation between the State Committee and the Parliamentary Research Committee. I asked the question: did the Minister say that she wants to cooperate and cooperate? You cannot answer that question, but you will put it in your report. How am I supposed to interpret that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u221	If, on the basis of the report by the chairman and the vice-president of the committee, the committee had not satisfied itself that that basis for cooperation was mutual, we would not have written down that we assume it will happen. That's exactly the courtesy of dealing with a private consultation. We assume that, because we have grounds to assume that. That is quite in line with what the Prime Minister said here in the debate, namely that he embraces this and hopes that this will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u222	I would like to park the Prime Minister for a moment, because we are talking about the discussion between the temporary committee and the minister. The report simply says: we hope that this cooperation will be mutual. So it's not over. You hope so, but it's not true. I think that is a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u223	The word "hope" isn't there. The committee assumes that the coordination comes from two sides. It has also been agreed that this alignment will continue along the official line, including with the Ministry. I can only say that, on the basis of the discussion we have had, we, as a committee, are saying here with this boldness: we are assuming that this is going well, that coordination is going well and that cooperation on both sides is sought and appreciated. The precise wording of the state committee is still open, I would also like to say to Mr Schalk. A lot of choices haven't been made there. The choices we make will be taken into account. In that sense, it is an organic process. We wouldn't put it that way if we had any uncertainty about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u224	I can't help it, but I think it's an assumption to say: we assume it's mutual. It's not clip-and-ready. I can't draw a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u225	Then you will still have to deal with the Prime Minister, who you have just skilfully parked. It comes from his parking lot at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u226	The Prime Minister's coming out of his parking lot in a hurry. 'Cause here he is. I was also just confronted by Mr Rosenmöller that the Prime Minister had said so here. I, of course, took the opportunity during the break to see what happened. Before the summer a motion has indeed been accepted in the Lower House, but that state committee is still not there. It was not announced until 9 December, at the same time as the national coordinator. In the meantime, the Prime Minister was here. We can say a lot about the Prime Minister and, above all, that he can respond incredibly well to what is already at stake. He knew that motion had been accepted. It was discussed here whether it would be useful to do such an investigation. So I think the Prime Minister has only agreed to what was happening in the House of Representatives. That's the first thing. The second is about being complementary to each other. My question was not just whether it is complementary. Mr Ganzevoort just said: where there are holes, we complement each other. Can't you just give them the whole investigation report and say, "Please, we'd like to have this investigated." Do it at once; that saves €735,000 and a lot of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u227	I will certainly come back to the second question. I don't think I can answer the first question. It sounds as if Mr Schalk is asking the chairman of the committee for a political analysis of how that process has gone. It doesn't seem like my role to go into that. I note that the Prime Minister said here in the debate that he hopes that this will work, that this will continue. I don't have the exact words in my head, but at least he embraced it in that sense. On the basis of the discussion we had with the Minister, we as a committee are convinced that it will be complementary and that it will not be in each other's wheels. Then you can indeed ask the question whether you should just put it all together. The committee says that we really see the benefits of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. That's different from a state committee. We see the benefits of the direct involvement of this Chamber when it comes to reflecting and analysing what is happening in the chain. Think also of how we can strengthen it from the point of view of our responsibility, including for the effectiveness and feasibility of policies, when it comes to anti-discrimination legislation. It is indeed different routes that run. They really have their own emphasis on sectors, on grounds of discrimination and on focus. It depends on whether you're more on the side of people's experience or more in the chain. It's really different investigations that complement each other. I will come back to the cost aspect, but whether it is paid by the state committee or by this Chamber, it is ultimately a cardigan-pocket issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u228	That last remark... I think that if something is inserted into an investigation, it has a different cost than if a complete committee of inquiry has to be set up. But I don't think we should talk about that today. That may be about a few hundred thousand euros. That's a lot of money. But thank you for explaining the situation as Mr Ganzevoort pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u229	Mrs Sent said that we consider the coordination to be very important. We are only underlining that. Mrs Nanninga asked: is it really complementary? I hope I've said something about that. Then about the different focus. The State Committee is talking about discrimination with a specific focus on racism. In this research, that is not the central theme. It plays a role, it is one of the grounds for discrimination, but it is also about age discrimination, disability and fill it all out. In that sense they are really different ways of looking. That is why this choice has been made. Mrs Faber asked about the route suggested. I mean, if it's human behavior, if that's the outcome, awareness in education is the route we have to go. She said, "Don't you get ahead of a conclusion?" My answer is, no, we're not getting ahead of ourselves. We say that different elements can play a role. There may be mistakes in our legislation. Even if we adopt laws here as co-legislator, we may not be sufficiently alert to possible discriminatory effects. That's not so much human behavior, but it's up to us. Enforcement capacity may also be a problem. All these analysis questions are trying to pull that apart. And yes, an element could be human behavior that could make Mr Frentrop drive faster than 100 km/h. At least, maybe not himself, but people who don't follow the law do. Just by looking at that range of possible factors you can see which buttons we can turn. If this study shows that it is really in the wrong impulses that are in the law, then public awareness may not be the best solution. So we want to get sharper where we can and can't turn in the whole. As far as I am concerned, that was the point of convergence and coordination with the state committee. On the subject of the instrument, I would like to comment on the question of whether the wish expressed by Mrs Sent: hopefully this will lead to a balance-of-payments framework. That is certainly a desirable option according to the preparatory committee. I'll say it again if I can. It may be that the outcome of the study shows that it is not so much a question of the legislative balancing framework, but rather that it is in other elements of that chain. If that's the case, then you might need other solutions, too. But we certainly have it in view. That is why we have also mentioned this: 'possibly leading to a framework for the assessment of legislation or the control of policies implemented'. Then there is Mr Schalk's question on support. He asks: isn't it a very heavy burden on the Registry? Sure. You can therefore see in the financial overview that extra efforts are being made to compensate for this and that additional employees have also been created. The Registry has assured us that they are ready for this. Then part 6: the composition of the committee. You see, Mr. President, I'm moving faster and faster as we get closer to the end. Mrs Faber said: I do not think that gender-based composition is desirable. We understand. At the same time, my reaction would be that it would be weird for a committee that is going to conduct research on the very issue of discrimination if only five women or only five men were in it. Not that that would be impossible, but it should at least give thought to how it works as a potentially unintentional selection ground. Mr Frentrop asked about the issue of distinction. Now you're going to put together on the basis of distinction. What criteria do you use? I'm fit to participate, he asked. Actually, he told you to leave the selection criteria out completely. I note that Mr Kox and Mrs Jorritsma say: make sure that there is a proper distribution in the committee, so that such a committee can do its job. The preparatory committee has said that if this committee is to be able to do its job properly, it will not only require a political weighting of a number of elements that play a role, but that, as chairman of the preparatory committee, it must, if possible, be somewhat depoliticized. Let's get the topics on the table before we have a real political debate on them. That should not be done in committee, but politically. You're gonna have to run an investigation, too. Managing a research may be everyone's hobby, but it may also require certain experience and qualities and so on. That's why we said something about that. We have also said that many of these issues also affect the administrative practice that our legislator has a direct impact on, because it is about government control. So it's useful if there's someone on that committee who also knows that administrative practice. These are the reasons for suggesting to the President, who, in my opinion, is about the composition of the committee, not only to look at a political representation, yes, but also to look at the fact that you are going to have a committee that is capable of doing this and that has the qualities to do so. At that point, we made some proposals in the report, with the aim of getting you a committee as effective as possible. I say that this is not just about the left and the right, but also about large and small groups, for example. How do you ensure that this becomes a process where the whole Chamber, including the small groups, who may not have the human resources to participate actively in the committee, is involved in the whole process? That is only helpful for the unity of the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u230	Mr Ganzevoort makes something clear to me. I just want to make sure I got that right. I saw four criteria that the committee members had to meet according to the preparatory committee. What I hear him say now is that there should be one person, for example, who has experience in an administrative environment. It is not the case that not every member has to meet all four criteria. That's actually how I read it and I thought it was a little weird. If Mr Ganzevoort means that there must be at least one person with experience in an administrative environment, one person who has the ability to analyse from multiple perspectives, I don't know which one of us might be, perhaps everyone might be, and one person with relevant scientific and legal expertise, then I can understand it, but I had understood that everyone in the committee had to comply with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u231	The question is clear. Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u232	Nor will we ask that each member be a proportional representation of men and women within himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u233	You already explained that to me. It wasn't supposed to be 100%...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u234	It may have been a little lame, but that's exactly what we're talking about. It says: "to be co-selected according to one or more of the following criteria." The idea is: these are elements that you would like them to be on the team that is about to be on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u235	Again, to clarify: must each member meet all elements except male/female? Not everyone can. I understand that. But does everyone have to meet all three other elements, or should there be one member who meets one of those three other criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u236	You want this represented on the committee. That can mean that you say, no, not everyone has to. You can imagine, for example, that the chairman should have more experience in directing research. It's possible. You can also imagine that for the committee member who takes primary responsibility for the case police, it might be extra useful if it is someone with administrative experience. That's the puzzle that needs to be laid. Hence the suggestion from the preparatory committee: be careful that you do not put it completely in the political representation, because then it may be that you have arranged it quite nicely politically, but that you will soon have a committee that is not up to the task. So try to put that puzzle in such a way that these qualities are in it, that you can manage the various partial examinations and the total well and that you take the width of the Chamber with you. That's actually the suggestion here. That puzzle, I think, will be with the President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u237	Mr. Frentrop, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u238	Finally. The committee has not yet given me complete clarity, but I wish you a great deal of wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u239	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u240	There was also a question from Mrs Bredenoord about the composition of the sounding board group. That too is an important point, precisely because it has indeed been rightly pointed out that this Chamber is very diverse in some respects, certainly in terms of political orientation, but perhaps in other respects less diverse. That is why the preparatory committee has said, also on the basis of external opinions, that it would be wise to have other sounds, through a sounding board group, which may not be represented in the Chamber or within the committee. We do believe that this is important. There is not much in the report about the composition of that sounding board group, except that we have said the following in committee: you should actually ensure that at least the views of different groups, of people who have experienced different grounds of discrimination, are reflected there either individually or from a policy perspective or whatever. Such a sounding board group should help the committee to judge without overlooking too many biases and things. So that will certainly require an even greater diversity within that sounding board group than will be feasible within the committee. Mr. Chairman. Finally, financial matters. Mr Rosenmöller asked whether this was comparable to the 2011 Kuiper Committee's investigation. Mrs Faber and Mr Frentrop asked for a reflection on costs. Mrs Jorritsma said: we do not ask that if we allow the government to investigate. That's a fair point, I think. But we did try to make it clear. Frankly, this estimate is even more precise and insightful than the estimate that played a role for the committee in 2011. You can see in the document that it was then estimated at €495,000 ex VAT. That "ex VAT" is mainly about the external hire. VAT is included in the amount now mentioned. That is including VAT; that saves €70,000, with only the external hire part. What wasn't included last time was the overhead that was made: equipment, P&O et cetera. That too has now been taken away; this amounts to 75k. What is also not included is that we were at that time, but now we are ten years further away. If you add all this together, then this research is in financial terms in the same order of magnitude as the 2011 study on privatisation and independence. Is that a lot or a little? I think that anyone who knows something about what scientific research costs, also knows that this kind of money in that world at least, let me put it this way for just a moment, is not strange. You can always ask whether it is much or little, but the committee is convinced that the importance of looking closely at how this Chamber can do its work, and how it can do it, in particular, on such an issue as the principle of anti-discrimination laid down in Article 1 of the Constitution, weighs heavily. Of course, it is up to the Chamber to decide whether it is worth the money. That's another question. The Committee believes that this is about the amount that you will have to think about if you want to do the research carefully and you want to discount that four case, so that you can come to a good balance and come to a good understanding. We think that this is a sober design, which should lead to a good insight with four cases, in a quick cooker. Mr. Chairman. That's what I think I answered all the questions. I only have a word of thanks to the members of the committee and to the support for the good atmosphere in which the committee has been able to do its work, for the consensus that has been reached on how we could conduct this investigation. It's up to the Chamber as a whole now. Our task was limited. It was simple and clear, one could say, namely: translate the idea expressed in the motion into a proposal on which we can decide. Well, that proposal lies before you. It is now up to the Chamber to say: if this is the elaboration of the motion, is this a form that we want to continue with, is this the investigation that we want to carry out? Mr President, that brings me to the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Ganzevoort for your first-term response. We have arrived at the second term of office. I would like to begin by giving the floor to Mr Rosenmöller on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u242	Mr President, thank you very much. Of course, a word of thanks to the committee, in particular to the chairman of the committee, who, in a convincing way, took up the question of our Chamber. I would like to make three more comments. As the debate progressed, I became more enthusiastic about the fact that we have had this debate, briefly and forcefully. In this respect, I would like to congratulate Mrs Faber, who has been the initiator of this debate. Moreover, the committee's answers to the questions put here and there by colleagues and myself made the report even better. My three questions have been answered convincingly; thank you for that. That's one. Two is the point of scope. Mrs Nanninga asked a similar question. You've taken our questions together, too. Is that how I understand it? Imagine if the committee were to put things a little upside down, and then you'd have to answer to the Chamber first. Somewhere there's room for the committee to add or change. The committee must have this space, but at the moment when things are really turned upside down, I would like to say, through the Acts, to the committee that has not yet been set up: come back, because this does not seem to be workable and so on. My third comment concerns coordination with the State Committee. I found the argument convincing. You can't clap out of the school about having a conversation with the minister. At the same time, you talked to the MP about, among other things, the position of the government; I had a discussion with Mr Schalk on this. I don't really see any problem there. Make sure that alignment stays good. Then about the role of the Senate, as one-after-last point. When it comes to such an issue as Article 1 of the Constitution, international treaties, underlying legislation and the whole chain that has been discussed, I think it is of added value if the parliamentarians from this Senate themselves are in charge of the investigation. You don't do that every week, every month, every year, but on such an issue, that is, given everything that has come to us in an analytical sense and what we know, to argue very well. That brings me to my final point. I hope that the binding and convincing way in which the committee has also answered the critical questions put by colleagues will give these colleagues the opportunity to support this proposal in the end, because whether this is done in a large majority, in almost unanimous or in complete unanimity makes a difference. Not least because it gives you the same starting point for the parliamentary inquiry that is likely to come. This also provides a basis for putting the committee together in a good way through the President of our Chamber, including political differences of opinion or insight or backgrounds. Let us be careful not to disqualify a committee in advance by being against it. You do not have to agree to everything on the proposal in order to be able to support it in the end. I appeal to colleagues here who have been more critical than we have, but I hope that may be the outcome of this debate. Once again, many thanks to the committee as a whole. I thought it was a good and pleasant debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u243	Thank you, Mr. Rosenmöller. Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u244	Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would like to thank Mr. Ganzevoort for his reply. Of course, we are still left with questions, but at least he has done his best to answer the questions in good conscience. Thank you for that. Then the piece of objectivity and subjectivity. Well, that's not gonna stop us from getting hot. Feelings cannot be captured in objective data. We really do have a problem with that. If you look at the figures, you look at the declarations, the notifications to the Human Rights College and the notifications to the municipalities. I think so myself, and so does my group, because I am speaking on behalf of my group, Mr President, that these figures are very low on a population of 17.4 million. That's what I keep saying. Nor do I think that the Netherlands is a very discriminatory country. I think there are many more countries around us where it all plays a much greater role.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u245	We also had this discussion in the first term. I still find it strange that Mrs Faber says that we do not actually have any data. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has carried out two investigations. Those studies are similar to each other. It sees a development in that. Feelings of an individual cannot be used to say: this is how the world is composed. But if you're dealing with millions of people, can't you come to facts on the basis of the views expressed by those individuals? I can't imagine anyone saying: yes, but if you take people's opinions, a lot of people will find this and very few people will think that you shouldn't see it as facts. Isn't that the basis of every moving scientific insight?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u246	I'm not gonna change my mind. Feelings are different for everyone. Everyone has a different world of experience. Mr. Kox has it, I have it, the chairman has it. That's normal and human. I find it very difficult to pin you all on that. Then I'd rather just look at the facts. Suppose I'm discriminated against and I'm so high up that I think I'm gonna go to the police and I'm just gonna press charges. Then you have a fact. I can make a lawsuit out of it. At least you'll have something to hold on to. If people think they're being discriminated against, they have to report it. There's something you can do with that. But when it's all about feelings, it's really hard. It is also very culturally dependent. Mr. Kox refers to the report of the Cultural Planning Bureau, but it also states that native Dutch people are much less inclined to press charges, as opposed to ethnic Dutch. That may also have something to do with culture, with honor. There are cultures in which the sense of honour simply plays a much greater role than in the Dutch. But we are here in the Netherlands. Discrimination on political orientation has been on the table for a while. There is; that's what I've experienced myself. But, you know, I don't really like a victim role. So I won't be squeaking about that very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u247	Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u248	Because if you go into a victim role, you'll also be treated and approached as a victim. That's what you shouldn't want. You have to be resilient, even against certain criticisms. I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u249	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I think the answer is clear. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u250	We base this parliamentary research, among other things, and to a large extent on the findings of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, which is working on our behalf and funded by our long-term trend research. I can't believe someone's saying, "I can't do anything with all these findings." Mrs Faber mentions a number of findings and says they are included in them. Yes, very nice; that's what it says: that it can make a difference whether you feel discriminated against or that you consider yourself accused of discrimination. That's what that planning agency's measuring for all of us now. So let's at least establish that if we're going to do an investigation, we're going to have to do it on the basis of facts. If a group here says that anything that is not precisely measurable in high and low, thick and thin and hot and cold, cannot be measured, then we really have a problem, because then the basis under much of our science is denied by Mrs Faber's group. I'd be very sorry to hear that. I am also sure that the party, the PVV, does not really want that, because that makes you an opinion party and a party that says: facts are not interesting to me; I only have opinions. That would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u251	Mrs Faber, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u252	I would like to comment on this. I am concerned about facts; I am concerned about concrete facts. Again, feelings are based on emotions. They just can't be caught. That's just the whole problem we have with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u253	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u254	Then I need to see where I left off. We have just talked about discrimination on the basis of political orientation. Mr. Ganzevoort says we might also be investigating with the police. Of course, that's very interesting, because then there's a mayor. That's not a PVV mayor, because there aren't any, but there was a mayor who said that PVV people wouldn't actually belong to the police. So that sounds like a nice case to bring, at least. So I'd like to give you that tip. That was in the congregation of Arnhem; then you have a more specific scope in this. We have talked about the fact that the chairman of the Temporary Committee does not know any studies on discrimination against political orientation. Again, universities are often coloured. I've heard that from people who were students there. They wanted to write certain theses, but a book like the Qur'an was simply not allowed to be listed for that investigation. I mean, everything becomes very liquid, of course. The chairman of the committee also said that we should not do it politically. I agree with the chairman, because we have seen at the IPCC where it leads when 50% of such a committee is made up of politicians. Then it always gets politically coloured. Let's be honest: in fact, everything is political. So it's just really hard to rule that out. That is why it is important to ensure that we do not go to certain political sides or to certain political preferences. I shall come back to the composition of the committee. I still think gender shouldn't matter. It may well be that, for example, I mention just what five women or five men are going to be in it. If at that time those are the people who have been nominated and who at that time would be the best, so be it. It's about the best person in the best place. Let me make a comment about the sounding board group. I thought that was a very interesting one. It has been said that not everyone is represented in this Chamber. This, of course, underlines the gap between politics and citizens. I think that is a very important point. One more thing about the investigation. What I and my group have difficulty with is that we are sitting in the seat of the House of Representatives and of the Government. I don't think that's the job of us as First Chamber. Once again, the PVV Group does not think the Netherlands is a country where there is a great deal of discrimination. Something will be experienced, of course. I believe that, and I can go along with that. Of course, everyone is against discrimination, but I think the best way is to make good legislation and enforce it. So far. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u255	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Mr Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u256	My question to Mrs Faber would be: what is the verdict on behalf of her group on the proposal before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u257	We are voting against, if that is what you want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u258	Yeah, that's what I wanted to know. You were the first to want this debate. I complimented you on that. What should the chairman or committee have said to convince you to agree to the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u259	Well, we also voted against the motion for this temporary committee, so I don't think it was a way to go as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u260	So you wanted a debate, but in advance the outcome was established, because you have already voted against the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u261	We voted against the motion. I also made it very clear at the APB why we did so. I even have two A4's about follow-up. That is the position that has been expressed. Nor do we believe that the Netherlands is a country where there is a great deal of discrimination. That was our point of view. But I have to admit that you have achieved that, and you may also have a compliment for that, which I thought, when I read the report: perhaps they are right. And then I started reading about the College of Human Rights and those hotlines at the municipality. I found out they exist, because I didn't know that at all. That was all interesting in itself. Then I started analyzing reports and stuff like that. It has triggered me to think about whether it is, it is true, because perhaps they have a point. And then I actually came to the conclusion that it's not that bad in itself. Sure, I agree with you that any form of discrimination is not good, but I don't think we should make it bigger than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u262	So we shouldn't make it any smaller than it is. My impression is that you do. The conclusion for now is that you say you were against that motion, you can discuss here what you want, you have studied it, but the final outcome is certain: that you are against that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u263	We are known as a group which is always very consistent in our judgements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u264	Yes, and so consistently that you don't really let a debate lie, but that you initiate a debate and already know what the outcome is for the debate. I still have the hope and conviction, also in your direction, that a debate is a clash of opinions, but that you also listen to each other. I see the President in your direction as well as Mrs Nanninga and all other colleagues answering questions in a sincere and serious manner and in a binding manner, so that the support for the proposal is as broad as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u265	Yeah, that's right, but we still have something in common. So you are standing here to convince colleagues that it is a good proposal; try to go along with it. We got the other side. We have said that we do not agree with the proposal and we are trying to convince colleagues not to go along with it. In fact, we have the same idea in the end, only we both have a different goal. Our stakes are the same. That is how you stand in front of your supporters, and that is what you are for, and that is how I stand in front of my supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u266	Okay. Mr President, last question, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u267	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u268	It may, of course, use this time to convince your colleagues not to participate, but that is not really a serious way of holding a debate with colleagues who have been working in recent months to carry out a motion. In that sense, the SGP Group really does this in a much different and much more constructive way. Your group did not want to participate in the preparatory committee. My question is whether, as far as you are concerned, this also applies to the composition of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, if it is decided to do so tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u269	Yeah, that's right. That's a correct conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u270	Don't you miss a huge opportunity to have influence? Or is it going to be back to the stove with the results and say: we all don't like it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u271	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u272	We'd rather let this poison cup pass us by.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u273	But then really pass away, and then don't say in a year's time: the Chamber has wanted something, there is a thorough analysis, there is a balancing framework... Now is the time to join, but if you don't join, you're gonna lose all your rights to be critical in a year's time. If, in advance, you do not participate in the preparatory committee, if you want a debate, not to be persuaded, but to convince others, to form a larger group, to try to torpedo it... If you do not want to participate in a parliamentary committee of inquiry if it comes, after tomorrow, then of course you are not worth a slap in the face on such an issue. I find that really disappointing, but well, that's the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u274	I'd like to respond to this. You are also not worth a slap in the face if you want to deprive an elected parliamentarians of the right to speak in advance in the Senate. That is a right. Every parliamentarians has the right to speak here. Whether I am for or against a committee or a proposal is up to me and my group. Mr. Rosenmöller has nothing to say about that. Mr. Rosenmöller doesn't decide that. That's the law. And we have to abide by the law. That's what we're talking about today. We're against discrimination. The PVV is also against discrimination. But you are starting to discriminate against Mr Rosenmöller or Mr Rosenmöller by saying that people who are torpedoing the proposal in advance no longer need to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u275	Thank you. We are moving slowly towards the conclusion of this debate between the two of you, because there are still two people at the interrupting microphone. Mr. Rosenmöller, really, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u276	I will, Mr. Chairman. I'm not restricting anyone's rights here. I am not depriving anyone of the right to express any opinion. But I find it extremely weak that you have a big mouth on this issue, and rightly so, but that you are not participating in anything and that even in a year's time the conclusions seem to be fixed in advance. That disappoints me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u277	Thank you. Very briefly, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u278	Mr President, I would like to comment on this. I'll be very brief. The PVV will not be institutionalised. We remain on our own points of view. We will continue to represent our supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u279	I hear Mrs Faber say that she herself has carried out an investigation into the proposal that has been formulated, and that, as a result of her own research, she believes that it is not such an urgent problem. But that is in stark contrast to the scientifically based research carried out by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. There, scientifically validated methods are used to show that it is a major problem. So I'm a little surprised at Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst's opinion, compared to the scientifically validated results that come from research at the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u280	Look, all kinds of reports can be made. Of course there are good scientists and good reports, but you must always think for yourself. That's what I'm saying. Something can be said. In the report of the Temporary Committee, I see a great deal of assumptions. Then I think, "Is that so?" Is that true? Is that right? I always prefer to look at facts. I've been a software engineer in my line of work. That's all about facts. It's digital. It's yes or no. That's how I've been trained. I'd rather look at facts than all kinds of blurry things. They can come up with all kinds of reports, but keep thinking for themselves. Why don't you check it out yourself? They can say anything, but go verify it yourself. Why would I have to take things out of hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u281	Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u282	This is the message I want... excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u283	I cannot escape the conclusion that Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst's opinion is a fact and that the facts put forward by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau are not a fact, according to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u284	The report of the Central Planning Bureau, or the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, has different starting points. This is mainly about subjective matters, such as feelings or hurts. I'm having trouble with that. I'd rather look at the number of returns. I'd rather look at the number of convictions. I prefer to look at the number of questions for judgment at the Human Rights College. How many requests for judgment have been brought in? How many were finally taken into consideration? How many of these judgments are discriminatory? That's all I care about. Feelings are just so fluid.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u285	Mrs. Sent, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u286	Third and last, Chairman. Because of these findings that Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst shares, it seems to me that it is particularly urgent to set up a committee like ours, because we see that it is such a complex dynamic. Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst has already indicated that some groups are more willing to make a declaration than others. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has indeed looked at what someone has been through and has also thrown out questionable cases. It is precisely this complexity, which Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst also points out in her contribution, that the difference between native and immigrant, the willingness to report or not, cultural differences, unconscious prejudices, as far as I am concerned, underlines the extra urgency to investigate this in the Senate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u287	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u288	As you probably expect, I cannot go along with that. Look, we can make everything a problem. Everyone has heard a wrong remark. I'm 60 now, so it doesn't happen that much anymore, but I used to get whistled on the street. You know, that just happens. You want me to report that? I was thinking, "I still look nice." So that's one way to interpret it. So you can make anything a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u289	Today we are debating a proposal from the preparatory committee and we must say yes or no to it. Mrs Faber said that I would like to have a debate on this with this Chamber. That's useful, as it turns out. But now I hear Mrs Faber say: we are going to vote against this proposal because it is not really that bad for discrimination. That's what she literally says. Is it not so bad when there are people who say: I can't get a house for my children because they all go to status holders who steal these houses? Is it not easy to say that I am a truck driver but I am no longer working because these guys from Eastern and Central Europe come here and are allowed to do anything, because they are not bound by legislation, but I cannot make a living anymore? Does that also apply to women who walk through certain neighbourhoods and say: I do not dare to come here anymore because you are being fluffed out and called up for everything and something by people who have a completely different culture? Does Mrs Faber also say to all these people: all feelings, all irrelevant, isn't it true, we have to look at facts? Or does Mrs Faber say that these are at least interesting data? So interesting that there is a political party in the Netherlands that doesn't say anything different than those things all in a row and also says: beware of those Islamic districts, beware of those foreigners, beware of those status holders, for they are pressing you away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u290	Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u291	How does Mrs Faber rhyme with those two things...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u292	That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u293	... so that it is not important and does not occur in the same way as the said party is based on institutional discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u294	This debate is getting really interesting now, because we are actually getting to where we have always wanted to have a discussion. That's what I'm talking about. For example, the Mercatorplein in Amsterdam. Why don't you go out there and walk like a woman? Even at my age, there's a lot of stuff going on there. We have always said that; these are certain cultures that look differently at a woman, where a woman is subordinate. And unfortunately, that also comes from Islam. That is why we have said: close those borders and stop importing all those cultures that do not want to adapt. Then we'll talk about those status holders. That is also very interesting because there is legislation in place to prevent discrimination, but with the exception of two municipalities, they all do so, all of which discriminate. I don't have any of the towns that are ready right now. At the APB I always have that with me but not today because I didn't expect these questions. There's legislation for it, but they don't. I also think that I have once tabled a motion to deal with such drivers who do not enforce the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u295	I think the answer is clear and I also ask Mr. Kox to shorten his questions somewhat.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u296	Mrs Faber spoke about status holders: there is legislation that says that it is not allowed and eventually certain people get priority over other people, and that should be sorted out. So what's this committee gonna do? On the basis of scientific research carried out by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, we find that a large group, more than one in four inhabitants of this country, is experiencing discrimination. This Chamber says that it wants to have researched it to see: do we play a role in that, do we make the wrong laws or do we not do something else right that we could do better so that that feeling of discrimination could go back? In fact, in Mrs Faber's entire speech, I do not hear one argument why she should be against this committee, except that she is very afraid that there will be research into discrimination, in the sense of: you never know what will come out of it. Well, that's just so interesting for that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u297	Mrs. Faber, I'd like a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u298	The people who know me a little know I'm not afraid of the devil. So that's just a non-argument. Otherwise, I wouldn't be in this position right now. I'm not gonna open a book about what happened. I'll leave that for a while. You're talking about the status holders. That is what legislation is for, but it is not being enforced. The same applies to anti-discrimination legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u299	No, Mr. Kox, don't talk through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u300	I myself think that most of the laws in the Netherlands are good. I can go along with that. Of course, there are always things we find a little less, but we should start to maintain, because that is what is lacking. And this committee isn't gonna help with that either. It just needs to be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u301	Thank you. I think we are closing this discussion now, so that we have room for Mrs Bredenoord to make the next interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u302	I have heard a lot of the debate a little bit, but the hypocrisy is getting a little too big for me now, saying that there are cultures that are, by definition, women's unfriendly. Do you mean your own party, the PVV, with your colleague Graus? Like that's not womanly. Perhaps you can also reflect a little on your own culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u303	No, Mrs Bredenoord, we agreed not to make personal attacks on colleagues, nor on colleagues of the House of Representatives. So you can put that aside, Mrs Faber, but perhaps you would like to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u304	Yes, I would like to make one comment: there is no conviction of Mr. Graus. I just like the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u305	You're at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u306	Wait a minute. I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u307	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u308	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u309	We agree, finally. Thank you, Mrs Nanninga from the Nanninga Group will have the floor. How's that sound?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u310	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with the correction by Mrs Faber on my previous term, in addition to Mr Schalk's term. On page 9 of the report it is indeed described that on 6 January a delegation of the preparatory committee spoke with the Minister, and indeed that was not the Minister, but the committee members themselves considered this study to be complementary and not excessive. Mrs Faber is absolutely right about that. I guess I read that passage wrong or too fast, but that actually makes the story even crazier. The committee itself will, of course, consider that it is not superfluous but complementary. As a result, I am not more convinced of the need for this separate investigation. If the state committee's investigation is more specific than the Senate's investigation, as the answer showed, then insert it into our investigation; it can also be the other way around. I do not think that in times of a deep medical and economic crisis the Dutchman is waiting to do it separately: two cumbersome, expensive and parallel investigations into a phenomenon which is certainly not underexposed, quite the contrary. Discrimination, racism, disadvantage: it is a subject that is very much in the spotlight and which is more overly hysterical than too lax in the political and public debate. Then there is my question about the scope of the investigation. Thanks for the answer. I agree with you, but I heard the President say: if the report is there and if it is very different from the plan, then we are going to say that it was not the intention. But then you're too late. I didn't think I'd ever say it, but I agree with Mr Rosenmöller. There has to be some kind of approval if the researchers decide to turn the investigation upside down, to talk to him. I am nevertheless looking for a more precise commitment to the range within which the researchers are allowed to operate. Then woke activism. It is remarkable that someone from GroenLinks does not know that term. I would like to define 'woke' as completely out of control activism, which leads to Black Piet being called racist, that the word 'jodencakes' should no longer be used and that unsuspecting children are raised gender-neutrally, to name but a few examples. The danger that committees of inquiry like this will be filled with advice from or talks with very extremist types who want to see a racist hatecrimy behind every moorhead is enormous, I can tell you from my experience in everyday practice in our wok capital. And that will give a very distorted picture of the extent and effects of anti-discriminatory or alleged discriminatory legislation in the Netherlands. This concern has also not been addressed in Mr Ganzevoort's comprehensive reply, for which I thank him. Finally, a brief comment on the consensus in the preparatory committee, which was mentioned by Mr Rosenmöller and Mr Ganzevoort. I understood from Loek van Wely, who was on that preparatory committee on behalf of our party, that was stated: if you disagree with certain things, then you can always say something about it in the debate or you can vote against it. I understand from him that there was no unanimity. So I'd like to have your views on that. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u311	I call Mr Kox on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u312	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the chairman of the preparatory committee for the answers that have been given, and I would like to thank those Members who, together with the chairman of the committee, have made it even clearer that what lies ahead. It has our support, as I said. This applies both to the research question and to the approach of the research and to the size and composition of the committee. I understand the committee very well that it wants to divide it politically well, but at the same time it would be nice if we could have people in it who can work more easily with this research than others. Not everyone is equally good at everything. As I said, my group will feel represented, even though my group is not on the committee. That is the way it should be for all the groups. Mr. Chairman. A final comment to give to the committee as a tip to the extent that I am entitled to do so on the basis of the experience of the previous committee of inquiry. An important part is the discussions, the preparatory talks and the interviews. I would like to advise: do not invite too many politicians to attend. Not because they're not valuable, but they talk with a burden on their back. The experience of the previous committee of inquiry was that it was extremely instructive and enlightening to speak with former politicians or with people who had previous experience of the matter, but who were no longer bound by it. So in this case, Balkenende rather than Rutte at the committee. Well, I'm not all going to bake cookies now, but that was the experience of the previous committee. It seems particularly valuable to me to bring these people here to reflect on the situation they have experienced. That will have to be the central part of the research. I wish the committee which will be set up shortly, not today but later, and the chairman of the committee who is to be set up, a great deal of wisdom. And I'm sure I can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u313	Thank you very much, Mr Kox. I call Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u314	Mr. Chairman. If I were a member of the Committee of Inquiry, I would try to apply the 80/20 rule from the economy, or even 90/10. The chairman gave the example of an iceberg. Of these, mostly 20% are above water and 80% below water. I'd like to see it reversed. In my first term, I added the theme of the media, not so much television, radio and newspapers, but especially social media. If we leave that point aside, we will miss a major aspect of the story as it is now playing into discrimination. I call on the committee to look very strongly at this when it actually makes the choices in the future. I quote Eva Jinek, who said in one of her broadcasts a while ago: I'm just not watching Twitter anymore, because it's shameful what's written about you and other people. This also applies to a large part of Facebook. You see that all over the world. The issue should be that there are also things that one should adhere to, even though we, as a government, may not be able to deal with them in the executive sphere at first, but in the peripheral sphere. I think we should be able to state that as a government and also as a First Chamber. I understand that the committee states that you must also make choices and set priorities: what are you going to do and what aren't you going to investigate? I added another story from a police officer, where it concerns the expected small number of reports based on advice from the police themselves. I understand that you are trying to channel your work at that point, but also those are themes that you have to look very strongly at, because that is of course true. In previous debates it has been said that it is not so bad with discrimination in the Netherlands. I don't think it's easy. The numbers prove that, too. 27%, as I have heard in the debate, feels discriminated against. Like I said, feelings are facts. Individuals are confronted with it. You just have to take that into account and do something politically with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u315	Thank you, Mr. Raven. I call Mr De Vries on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u316	Mr. Chairman. Our group thanks the committee for all its efforts. We very much appreciate the commitment of the chairman of the committee, Mr Ganzevoort, to include our suggestion to standardise extremist ideas in the research scheme, in particular through attention to anti-Semitism in education. Finally, our group hopes that political parties will also take account of their role in the normalization of extremist ideas, especially when these parties enter into a coalition, as is the case in the Provincial States of North Brabant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u317	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. Then I give the floor to Mr Schalk, on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me clarify the history lesson of the first term. For the summer there was indeed a motion in the House of Representatives asking for an investigation by a state committee on the subject we are discussing today. At the end of October we had the General Political Reviews and the Prime Minister indeed embraced the idea that Mrs Jorritsma and Mr Rosenmöller had been appointed. It was easy for him to do that, because it's not about it. It was a parliamentary inquiry, no more and no less. Moreover, this motion for a resolution was a very complicated one for my group. That is also the only subject I have mentioned here today that was a little more substantive. The other comments I made were mainly procedural in nature. The problem that we, as a group, had with this motion was that this discrimination sometimes has a systemic character. Mr Ganzevoort explained that this could also be structural. Yeah, what's in a word? As a group, we have become extra alert and extra concerned. In any case, 9 December announced the establishment of a State Commission by the Minister for the Interior. In the spring of 2021, that State Commission will be set up, as it promised at the time. This is running in parallel with what we are doing here, so as far as my group is concerned, that is an excellent time to include this research. Especially since it will seem to be complementary to each other, it seems very good that it is mentioned under one heading and under one roof. I would also like to say that, even if my group votes against, my group's position on this subject, in future too, is as constructive as it was in the discussions that took place in the Temporary Committee. I have, of course, still to discuss it in the broadest sense of my group. I would like to thank the President for his comments and for his reply. We are still waiting to see how this committee will ultimately carry out its work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u319	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Mr Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u320	And now I'm almost certain which question Mr Rosenmöller is going to ask me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u321	But I'm still giving him the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u322	Then give me the answer! I have no doubt about the constructive role of the SGP. I hope in all seriousness that you will come to a balance that this can go through, just to put it bluntly, but why do you now come up with the whole issue of the State Commission? You didn't say a word about it before at the APB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u323	I think I responded to what was going on at the time in the General Political Reviews, but I did not respond to that motion before the summer. In the first term, I've already exchanged that with you. I do not have the impression that this motion was there at the time, and that is actually the answer to this question. I did not bring in the state committee 'just now', because this is only the first time that Mrs Faber has challenged me to a debate on this subject. If that had been asked earlier, we would certainly have said something about that state committee, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u324	But is it true that the insight you have recently acquired, namely that the House of Representatives has declared that there will be a state committee, now that the argument is to insert this research proposal into that state committee, even though you did not know it would come? That is the SGP and the conscientious way in which you have done this handicraft is almost unbelievable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u325	Then let's go back to the debate at the time. A motion was tabled on the systemic nature of this problem. At the time, we already referred to this. In the end, we came to the conclusion that we could not support the motion at the time. The situation at the moment: even if I had had had had a clear point at the time that there was a motion in the Lower House about a state committee, I might have said "you are actually doing something that is already being organized in the Lower House." I didn't do that at the time, because I don't have the image. Now we have arrived on 23 February 2021 and I know by now that there is a state committee. I also know that this state committee will be complementary and then it seems to me to be a perfectly normal argument that you say: as far as we are concerned, the pressure will be removed from the boiler. Also make sure you do much better financially, because why would you have two groups do an investigation if those investigations are ultimately complementary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u326	Last question. I have read it, also because, quite frankly, not only as a colleague but also in view of your party's tradition, I value the fact that you are in favour of this proposal. But the main argument was not so much that systemic, because it says "sometimes systemic." That's it, isn't it? Don't make it bigger, don't make it smaller. But anyway, you can argue about that. The main argument was that a parliamentary inquiry had already been decided on without the question of "or?" could be answered. That was the main argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u327	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u328	Is it true that you are convinced of the desirability of conducting an investigation, but because of your recent understanding that there will be a state committee, you say 'bring it down there'? Is that the conclusion, or is there still room to take this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u329	There's always room to weigh a proposal. Back to that moment back then. I used the same words as now. We are moving towards a parliamentary investigation, and I am almost certain that we will not get out of that trap. In my text this afternoon, I brought it with me, I said again that we were going to swim in that trap and that it is now actually happening. That is the conclusion I drew in advance. Then of course you should be careful not to say "guys, I'm not in that trap," so forget it. However, I think I have sufficiently indicated the procedural side of the matter. To be honest, I find it rather complicated that, after a debate like this, you would not be able to say: in the end, my group is not voting for this route. Mr Rosenmöller has asked a very important question: do you think that research is necessary? My group has participated very constructively. There have also been a number of additional issues that have been raised by my group colleague: that Article 1 would not be a super-fundamental right; that the politically charged debate on non-discrimination against other freedoms such as freedom of education; and that explicit attention should be paid to anti-Semitism. I also mentioned the latter in the debate at the time. I think that's all very big wins. That is why my group is now saying, as was the case with the State Committee last time, which we voted against: at the time that the State Committee will be there, we will participate constructively, and if there will be a committee of inquiry here, we will also participate constructively. However, I believe that we as a group should reserve the right, even after a good debate, to make the final assessment whether you think it should be done in this way or in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u330	Thank you. Mrs Jorritsma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u331	Actually, there's only one thing that concerns me. Of course, you have tried the reaction of both the chairman of the preparatory committee and the input of the members, that there is no support for your idea of transferring it to the state committee. Does that mean that you no longer consider the issues raised by the committee to be important enough to investigate them? That is, to my mind. Either the topics are important, but you don't like the form. But then you could also say: if the majority finds something else, then I still think that the research is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u332	It is the power of democracy, even when it comes to a parliamentary investigation, that you can finally choose a different route, when you consider certain aspects or subjects to be important. I will be the last to say on all kinds of issues relating to discrimination that they should not be investigated. It's not about that at all. I've flown it very, very procedurally. I'll share that with my colleague. But I am not saying now: it will be all right, Mrs Jorritsma, because I am just saying that we will continue to choose from that procedural point of view. That may well be the outcome of a debate. Why should everyone coûte que coûte agree to a route that is not the most logical for everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u333	That it is not the most logical, I understand, but if you do not go along with this because the rest of the Chamber, or at least the majority of the Chamber, chooses a different route, you implicitly say that you do not think the subject is important enough to investigate it by ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u334	I think it is important that there is an investigation into everything that is wrong in this society, but it is really too short, as far as I am concerned, to say that if you do not agree, you do not think the subject is important enough. I indicated very clearly where I was from the beginning. I mentioned the systemic element. I've also indicated from the beginning: we're going into a trap that we can't get out of if you're not careful. It turns out it is. Is that serious? Well, we have to weigh that. But if we say in a moment: we do not choose this route, we think it is more convenient to bring the wonderful report that is here and which my colleague has also worked well on, to the State Committee, then of course you cannot say that we do not think the subject is important. We just think it can be investigated in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u335	Mrs. Jorritsma, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u336	But then it still puzzles me. If you find that the majority of the Chamber does not share that view with you, then the investigation into these issues is still important, even in your opinion. Then I find it strange that you do not agree to the process chosen by the majority. That's weird. I just can't figure that out. Then you say: it doesn't have to be investigated if the majority wants it to be done in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u337	So that's not true. If the majority here were to agree with my view, namely that there is no need for parliamentary scrutiny, then there is still a state committee, because it has already been announced and so on. Then the subjects we are about to discuss will also be dealt with. The President indicated that he had heard in the discussions that it was complementary. So don't worry. The SGP Group really does not think that we are dealing with anything weird or anything like that. So far, we think another route is better. I will share it in detail with my colleague, of course this part of the debate, but I do have the right to make that choice and not to say: we all want unanimity, so do it. Or: we think the issues are important, so please agree. We are also here for a certain political reality. If you choose to do this, you'll say something about the state committee. You could say: isn't that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u338	Thank you. Mrs. Jorritsma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u339	In my view, the state committee has a much more limited starting point. That's just about racism. I think it would be a missed opportunity if it were just about racism, because I think discrimination is much wider. I am sorry to see you turn it around and say that I am throwing it very far away from me because we have a problem if we do not follow you. That's weird, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u340	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u341	I wish you every success in seeking a solution in your group. I hope that at the end of the day you will find the subject important enough to do the research on these subjects as well. I hope that, if it turns out that the Chamber sees things differently than you do with the process, you would still want to go along with that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u342	Thank you. Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u343	I would like to correct Mrs Jorritsma on one point, because that is quite important. She says: the state committee is only about racism. But it is not for nothing that the State Committee is called 'State Committee on Discrimination and Racism'. So discrimination is in full swing. Otherwise, I do not think Mr Ganzevoort had come back with: yes, it is complementary. Because then we can also talk about a lot of other subjects. Then there is Mrs Jorritsma's last comment. She can be assured that the SGP will participate fully if anything is requested from the SGP, even if there is an investigation coming out of this Chamber shortly. We have also shown this to the Remkes State Commission and its report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u344	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Mr. Ganzevoort, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u345	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to Members for once again the important questions and the comments that have been made during the debate that we are allowed to have in this way. Thank you for the constructive way in which that happens. I am referring not only to the words of Mr Schalk at the end, but also to the beautiful moment when Mr Rosenmöller and Mrs Nanninga found each other. I think that wording was a very good one: if the committee turns things upside down, it will require further consultation with the Chamber. That was also my intention with the wording that the main line is what it is, but it was apparently less convincing. We assume that if the committee goes on the road with this main line and within it a finetunet to achieve that same goal, we will say to each other: yes, we would like to know this with each other. If the committee's gonna do something completely different, she's gonna have to come back first. That is the point that has been made clear. Good coordination with the state committee remains a point. We have assured ourselves that the effort is made to ensure that this coordination is properly carried out. The committee agrees with what Mr Rosenmöller said, namely that it is also important for the Senate itself to take the lead in these questions. That's part of our job. A brief response to Mrs Faber. I'm afraid we're not going to agree entirely. That's a bit strange, because we have the same arguments, namely a. discrimination is a point and if there is, then you have to do something with it; b. not every individual experience calls for legislation, policy and all those things more, I think we agree on that too, and c. you have to base it on facts. If we were to agree on this, I would have hoped that I would have been able to convince her more on behalf of the committee. Apparently I can't do that and I wasn't given that today. But the point is that we do not base ourselves on anecdotes: not on an anecdote of a rector from Nijmegen or a mayor from Arnhem, not on the anecdote of individuals who have a particular experience. We base ourselves on a series of research studies that put together: look, this has happened, this has happened and this has happened. From the inspection, from the SCP certainly, but not only. From ministries, who say: this is what we observe. From De Telegraaf and the AD, which are also mentioned in the footnotes. There is a very wide range of research that is happening and what is trying to objectify this. In this respect, my heart cry on behalf of the committee would be for Mrs Faber: if you consider facts to be so important, if that research is so important and it is precisely about objectifying, let us not limit that objectifying to legalising..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The shared reasoning goes a long way, but at some point the question arises: what facts do you take seriously and what facts do you not take seriously? There's been a change of plans. It is not my role to have a political discussion with you on this, but if these facts are so important, then I hope that Mrs Faber has also seen in the proposal that this committee wants to underline it. Mrs Faber also said that the quality of the composition is particularly important and not gender and that sort of thing. We have made a suggestion, in particular, on the distribution on a number of themes. The President will have to go on with that, no doubt having heard what you said. I am at least convinced of the quality of women. We're gonna see who's gonna select the chairman! The sounding board group. Certainly, that is an indication of the gap between the citizen and politics. We as First Chamber are relatively homogeneous, in all kinds of ways. This also says something about how we are connected with that broad experience in society. The solution that this committee has is to say that it cannot change the composition of this Chamber...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is this a task of the First Chamber? Mr Schalk says that when it comes to the state committee. Mrs Faber asks if this is not something that would belong to the House of Representatives. In general political considerations, the Chamber has stated in a broader sense that this study is important and has asked the preparatory committee to find out how it could be done. We have said: if we do so, then it is appropriate for the First Chamber to choose exactly the right focus. Not every type of investigation goes with the First Chamber. I agree with Mrs Faber. However, the specific examination of how legislation works and the monitoring of the drafting of legislation, its feasibility, but also its legality in relation to the Constitution and international treaties, are, of course, really part of the review framework of the First Chamber, as well as that we also look critically at ourselves and critically check how we actually do that. In 2011, the Kuiper Commission did so when it came to self-determination privatisation. The idea here is that this task, in this form, with this focus, belongs very much to this Chamber, because it is not a political investigation, but really a legislative investigation. With those answers, I hope that Mrs Faber not only recognizes that we have the same types of reasoning, but that she can finally get it over her heart to support it. But that's entirely up to her. In response to Mrs Nanninga, I have already said something about the demarcation, the point of complementarity and the state committee. The question is, of course, whether the state committee is more specific or this committee. They're preliminary investigations. The Committee also welcomes the fact that these are not isolated issues. That is why coordination is important. But there are differences. The state committee's focus is more on racism than this proposal. I am not saying that it is black and white; that is a risky wording in this respect. I will not say that there is a fundamental difference and that one is only about racism and the other is not at all, but the focus is somewhat different. The second difference is that we understand the state committee in this way, but that has to be made more precise. What is the reality of this: what policy is there, what are its effects and what is the experience? The focus on legislation, which is very central to us, is again less central in the state committee. In this sense, research will enrich and strengthen each other. That is the conviction we received as a committee, partly on the basis of the discussion with the Minister. I have heard the word "woke" before, I say to Mrs Nanninga. It is typically such a term that people never use for themselves but always for others. If I may translate it in such a way that we must be careful not to politicise too much in this case and not to fall into activism too quickly, then I fully agree with Mrs Nanninga. The purpose of this committee and this research proposal is precisely that we are trying to get sharp where it is and where it is not. As I said earlier, not every subjective complaint and not every subjective experience gives rise to objective policy and legislation. We live in a climate in which a lot is polarized, in which we say a lot about and to each other and put each other in boxes and in which we find all kinds of things. That is part of the political debate, and on days when I am on the other side, I will be happy to participate. But let us see if we can find each other in relation to Article 1 of our Constitution, when it comes to the experiences that people seem to have in all kinds of places, and when it comes to the extent to which the government and the legislator play a role in it. Let us see if we can say with some objectivity and restraint in qualifications: can we work on and move forward with the society we want with each other and to which we have committed ourselves with our loyalty to the Constitution, the society that does not discriminate? That is actually the most important response to this point. Mrs Nanninga asked a specific question about consensus or unanimity in committee. I said at the beginning that this consensus was that we said: this is a proposal that is ready to be presented to the Chamber. That does not mean that each member of the committee has personally committed himself to this or that his or her group has committed itself to it. The same applies, of course, to the SGP colleague who participated. It is good to hear from Mr Schalk that he recognizes that the comments made by his group and his group colleague have also been incorporated in the report. As a committee, we have really done our best to do justice to the different sounds and thus to arrive at a shared story. If one of the Members had indeed considered that she or he could not bear any co-responsibility for this report in that form, we would have mentioned it. This was done in 2014 with the Temporary Committee GRECO report. Mrs Faber was then mentioned in a footnote as a member of the committee who did not agree. The same applies to Mr Van Strien as a member of the Temporary Committee on the Working Environment. Once again, we would have done so: if we had received the signal that one of the Members would not be able to support this proposal, it would have been in a footnote. Mr Kox had another tip for the committee, which, through the Acts, would be redirected by the chairman to the committee to be set up, namely: do not invite too many sitting politicians. Mr. Raven once again asked about the social media and what is happening below the surface, and the 80/20 rule. I have said before: it is good to see if it can get some attention from enforcement through the line that is in it. But we must be careful that we do not make the Christmas tree bigger than it might already be in the eyes of some people, because then it may become unworkable. Mr De Vries referred to the issue of extremist thinking. He mentioned that as a commitment, but that might be a little too much honour for a temporary preparatory committee. But at least he thinks that there is a hook in the proposal where that could be discussed. Mr Schalk expressed his concern about the term "systemic." I think he was in the motion at the time rather than in the report, but the focus on what is happening in structures is something that is very much in line with legislation. Legislation is when it is good not about isolated incidents of citizens, but about what we see as patterns and structures. I think that the committee, with its preference for a parliamentary inquiry in this form, has made a different choice than Mr Schalk when it comes to transfer to the State Committee. I would like to thank him for his constructive attitude, as was the case in committee. This constructive attitude can translate into constructive participation after a vote against, but that could very well be done after a vote in favour. Mr. Chairman. It is certainly not for me to give a vote. That's not my role here today, and that's not what this is about. However, the proposal that we have developed with the committee, with a very broad representation from the Chamber, has certainly provided a basis for the debate to be held with each other and to be able to consider whether this is indeed what we consider important. In any case, I hope that the outcome of this will be... The intention to fight discrimination together is widely shared, including by political groups which say that they may or may not support this proposal, and is very deep. As far as this is concerned, not because of the final voting relationship, because that is not always the most important thing, it is a signal that the First Chamber considers discrimination to be a point which must be combated in this society. This is not only part of the Constitution, but also part of our central task. From our point of view and from our responsibility for the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of legislation, it would be desirable, I say as a conclusion, if we could jointly put the shoulders below in a vote supporting the proposal as widely as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u346	I would like to thank Mr Ganzevoort for his second-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-22-eerstekamer-3.u347	I have come to deal with the research proposal. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the research proposal? That's the case. Then I propose that we vote tomorrow on the research proposal. I shall suspend the sitting for the night until 23 February 2021 at 9 a.m. and wish you well at home.
