ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u1	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe one word in advance. I think it is very honorable and a great responsibility to stand here as Minister of Economic Affairs, but the reason I am standing here really matters to me. That is because Eric Wiebes himself has decided to abandon his ministry. All the good in this package, that honor really belongs to him! That is what I wanted to say here. Mr. Chairman. There was another question from Mr Van Dijck of the PVV, but it is still on its way to the Chamber and that is why I will do it in a moment. There was another question about Pinkpop: what about the events? I cannot go into specific festivals and say here which can or cannot go on. We are now working on the development of this guarantee fund, and we are going to inform you about it, but I cannot already promise that this date will be brought forward or that a specific festival will or will not be able to continue. We really need to get that involved in the elaboration. I believe that there is also a motion in the package before me, but we shall come back to that. Then I'd like to move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u3	Quite a short question, Mr. Amhaouch. You've had a wide-ranging debate and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u4	You know me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u5	Yeah, that's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u6	I'm always very short of dust. I understand, of course, that we cannot deal with individual cases, but this is the example. So the question is: does the cabinet see room, flexible space, to assess that with the industry per case? It may well come out that it's irresponsible. Or isn't the Minister just sticking to those strict rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u7	We have written it down in the letter in such a way that you can see that it is not cast in concrete, but at the same time let us ask ourselves how real it is that you can do something at the end of June. But we will come back to that. I understand that you, Mr. Amhaouch, are very excited about Pinkpop. Mr President, I come to the... Ah, there's Mr. Van Dijck! He had an important question, and now I understand better what he meant. It's complicated and that's why I'd like to deliver it in writing. But his question was this: if, for example, you only started in the second quarter of 2019, do you still have a reference? Yeah, 'cause it'll move along. There's a whole technique behind that and I'd like to put it in writing. But if an entrepreneur in the TVL did not exist in the normal reference period, that reference period automatically shifts along with his starting date. He will then receive the first quarter after his starting date as a reference period. So there seems to be provision for that. I'd love to put it a little more on paper, because I can see where your question, Mr. Van Dijck, came from. It's kind of hard to follow with all the Q-shows every now and then. I will therefore also do so in writing, but I believe that the correct question you asked is provided for. Then I'll get to the motions. I'll start with the second motion. That is the motion by Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party in respect of item No. 6, on the reduction of the fixed-cost threshold. I would ask him to hold this motion for a moment, because I have also indicated that I am sympathetic to the idea on my own, but that I really need to figure out some things for it. Because I don't want us to do anything we'll regret later. I would, however, like to assure him that I will ensure that you can vote on this before the election recess, otherwise you will have nothing to do with it. But if we can get it right, then... I see Mr Van Dijk nodding. Fine! Then the motion of GroenLinks and the VVD. That, according to my administration, is the motion in part No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr. Gijs van Dijk, you're holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u9	The motion in part No. 6 about lowering the threshold of the TVL to perhaps €1,500 we keep on for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u10	At the request of Mr Gijs van Dijk, I propose his motion (35669, No. 6) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u11	I shall come back to that in writing. Then the motion to part No. 10 by GroenLinks and the VVD. I have already said a few things about this in the debate. It's about the relationship between landlords and entrepreneurs. A new legal anchor is simply very complicated to me. I'm not going over that alone either, because JenV is also involved. We've done that exercise a lot, and I don't see any way of doing a legal basis right now. I am quite willing to give you our consideration of why we cannot do so, but if you tell me now 'you will and must do a legal anchor', I simply cannot do so. Organising conversations between parties, of course, we always want to do that. I cannot, of course, give an automatic commitment that an agreement will come out of that. I would also add that the case law points in the right direction. As this motion has now been formulated, I can only dissuade it, unless you are satisfied that I read it as: I can give you the legal considerations and we continue to organise discussions with those sectors, which the Secretary of State is really doing a lot. He's definitely not sitting still on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u12	No negotiations on motions, but if you want to arrest her...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u13	I would like to take advantage of the Secretary of State's apology: from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to at least receive that legal information. As far as I am concerned, the motion remains standing, but we can at least look further on the basis of that legal information and the interpretation of case law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u14	Then I'd like to take a look at the proposers. If you leave the motion, you'll be voting on it on Tuesday. I don't know if I can get that information to you so soon. Then I would suggest that you hold this motion for a moment. If you ask me if I am going to make a legal arrangement and conclude an agreement right now, I simply cannot do that. Then I'll have to discourage the motion. But I'll send the information to you as soon as I can. If that's not before Tuesday, I suggest you hold the motion, otherwise I'll have to advise her not to. Then the motion to part No. 12 of the SP, which asks to do things for more specific sectors. That is what we discussed in the debate. That is just not what the implementation is equipped for right now. Then I have to take them off other things, and I just don't want to. Then the motion to part No. 14 of the SP and the VVD, which says: When working out such an event guarantee fund, look at things with, for example, less than 3,000 visitors. The voucher bank from the previous Kwint/El Yassini motion is back. I see that an earlier coalition SP/VVD is continuing here, with other members. It's becoming very sustainable. But I'd like to give that motion a room for judgment. I myself, as Secretary of State, once appointed Mr Jasper van Dijk as a new formattor, you can check.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u15	Except he forgot to mention that it was Jasper van Dijk. We have about four Van Dijken in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u16	That is why we do so much dike monitoring in this country. Mr. Chairman. We are working on this guarantee scheme. You all know the goals for that. The demarcation of visitor numbers is also what we want to do together with the sector. I just said something about the date of entry to the CDA. Of course, that wasn't poured into concrete. We have to work that out, but let's also get a little... When I look through my eye hairs, I don't see huge things happening before July 1st, but you never know. Then I'm going to ask my colleague from OCW to go into that research on the voucher bank. I ask her to reply in writing and I do not have that answer here. Then the motion to part No. 15 of VVD and D66, which actually says: advanced that start-up arrangement in the sense that it also includes people who started earlier. That's a motion I'd like to give to the House of Commons. I have just understood the implementation and this can be added to it. Then the motion to part No. 16, in which Mr Aartsen and others ask me to identify with branches and possibly with municipalities who are still excluded. How much are we talking about, for example? I would like to do that, but you mention 1 March in the motion and I would ask you to allow me to do so before 1 April. I also need people for this. We'll do everything as soon as possible, but before April 1st, I'm sure I can deliver it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u17	Shortly, Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u18	That's fine, as long as it doesn't take too long. The industry organisations are ready to throw things online tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u19	Fine. It's always nice when people help. The motion in part No. 18 of the CDA asks whether we can also do such a storage for the travel industry, as we do for the catering industry for example. That motion I can give judgment Chamber. You are right to say that the rate of storage must, of course, be related to the cost. In fact, I do not think they are as high as, for example, the clothes, where your entire winter collection has now become a lot less valuable. Then the motion to part No. 19 of the CDA, asking for a committee of wise men. We are more or less working on that, I am going to do so, but I also say that it is really about the exceptions. With reference to the debate, I repeat that tailor-made things do not become a generic extension of the rules. I think we understand each other well. The motion in part No. For example, 20 calls for dynamic event permits, to see if we can also talk to the VNG about this. I'd like to do that, because it would be a shame if they were show-stoppers again. Then the motion to part No. 21 on automotive, aerospace and maritime industries. It asks us to develop the subsidy scheme by 15 May. We're happy to do that, so I'm gonna give it to you, Chamber. Then the motion of 50PLUS to make every effort to open that starter scheme early. If I betray her because we already do, it's like I wouldn't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u20	That's the motion in part No. 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u21	Sorry, that's the motion in part number. 23. We're putting everything on top of everything. I would like to give the motion judgment Chamber, but I would say that so far everything that we do day in, day out has not led us to open earlier. It is what it is. Those people sometimes have to sleep again. The motion in part No. 24 of the SGP about click and collect or buy by appointment............................................................................................................... It has rightly been added that this is, of course, related to how that terrible virus is behaving. Mr Stoffer's motion on item No. 25 is about a tailor-made solution for calf farming. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade him. It is not possible to lower the turnover threshold for one specific sector within the TVL. This could only be done within a specific scheme. Then RVO has to develop it completely again. Of course, we didn't choose that 30% for nothing. I cannot make an exception specifically for one sector. I'm sorry. So I'm gonna have to dissuade it. The motion in part No. 26 deals with the development of exit strategies in cooperation with industry organisations. Yes, please. We want to take advantage of that creativity. So I'm gonna give it to you, Room. It was a motion partly on behalf of Mr Van Haga, I believe. So he gets judgment room. Mr Van Haga had a motion on the deletion of establishment requirements, with reference to the debate. That's just not feasible for us. That was the motion in part No. 28. The motion in part No. 29, also by Mr Van Haga, concerns the deletion of the cap from the TVL. That is what we discussed in the debate. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. The motion in part No. 31 asks not to include all these start-ups and takeovers in the hardness clause. We talked about that, too. That's really not in a hardness clause. That is not feasible and not verifiable. Then the motion to part No. 32, also by Mr Van Haga. He's asking for the air ventilation of stores. I'd like to dissuade them. We don't have the indication that ventilation is something that's holding us back and that would all take extra research and a lot of time. Then the motion of the PVV in part No. 38, by Mr Tony van Dijck. He says, "You're just gonna have to pay 100%. We have also discussed this more frequently not only in this debate, but also in previous debates........................................................................................................................................................................................ We've already raised it to 85%. By the way, you will see that this is often close to 100% in practice. So dissuade it. The motion in part No. 39 by Mr Bruins of the Christian Union says: go ahead with what you have invented for agriculture and horticulture for Q1 to Q2, so to the second quarter. We are prepared to do so. That's Judgement Room. Then the motion to part No. 40. I think it belongs to Mr Azarkan. That was the point of talking to the VNG. I've already promised, so judge Chamber. I'm gonna see if I can get someone involved, for example BZK, but we're gonna do that then, because I think that's a fair question that we're allowed to ask. Then the motion on adjusting the system so that driving schools and hairdressers fall into it. That's the motion in part No. Forty-two, thank you. In itself, these sectors are not excluded from all the measures we have. If you want to do something extra there, we need to make specific arrangements again, and unfortunately that is really not possible. Those were the motions I had. If it's okay, the colleagues have the rest of the motions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u22	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to come back to two questions from the first period that had remained. The first one was from Mrs. Van Brenn, about the combination of the Tozo and the TONK? Yeah, you can. People who receive money through the Tozo but cannot meet their necessary costs can call upon the TONK. As an example, I would like to mention a single entrepreneur. Well, that's possible, isn't it? A second question that had remained on the table concerns the state of play in the discussions with the border countries on entrepreneurs. It turns out that the predecessor of the Secretary of State, the predecessor of Mr Van 't Wout, Mrs Van Ark, already sent a letter on this subject on 1 July. It states that those talks had ended and that no solution had actually been found. I thought those conversations were still going on. I just took a look; Mrs Van Ark became Minister of Medical Care on 9 July. So that letter fell right in between. That is why we could not quickly reproduce where that had gone. But no solution has been found. In fact, it has been found that all countries themselves are responsible for the inhabitants of the country. The motion in part No. 5, by Mr Gijs van Dijk, is judged Chamber. If that's the way it's gonna be, I'm just gonna do it like this. The motion in part No. 7 is about those border entrepreneurs we were just talking about towards the CDA. I must discourage that motion on the basis of the same argument. There have been conversations. I don't see any export opportunity, so I can't make that commitment. The motion in part No. 8 belongs to Mr Smeulders and deals with mental support. We've been in touch with VWS' colleague. I would like to give this motion judgment Chamber, but I would like to make a few comments. No new programs are being rigged. We also want to take this path with municipalities and other stakeholders, because this issue goes beyond just the social partners. We're gonna have to work that out together. With those reservations, I will give the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 9 by Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg. I have already said in the first term that I am doing expectations management, and that I want to give a strong profit warning because of the implementation. I have also said that it is impossible for the UWV to include all kinds of tasks, but I have also found that I want to look with social partners. That's what I wrote in last week's letter. With these comments, therefore, I will give the motion judgment Chamber. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 11, by Mr Van Kent and Mr Gijs van Dijk, on the partner test. With reference to four previous debates: dissuade. The motion in part No. 13 is about extending a deadline. I have promised Mr Van Weyenberg that I will come up with a response to identify where it is. I'm just not gonna do that for next Tuesday. I can't do that; it's Thursday now. So I'm asking Mr. Van Kent to hold the motion until that letter arrives. Or else I'll have to dissuade the motion. However, I am going to honour Mr Van Weyenberg's commitment, so let me leave this to Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u24	Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u25	The need is high, so I hope we can get something by Tuesday. Otherwise, I think we should put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u26	Then I'll advise against the motion. Then the motion to part No. 27, about the partner test. I'd advise against it. The motion in part No. 35 Van Weyenberg et al., is judged Chamber, also given the signature by about 150 members, but with mention that we are now working together with the municipalities and Divosa on the hand-out. The municipalities are indeed in the process of implementing it. There is good consultation with the municipalities. I'm willing to ask the congregations to deal generously with that power test. Period. But of course, it's still a hand-out. It remains for the college and the city council to determine how well they intend to carry out the TONK. That is, of course, a decentralised power of the city council. But bearing in mind the motion, I'm going to pass it on. So she gets judgment room. Then there's that other motion, in part No. 34, Van Weyenberg, Aartsen, Palland and Bruins. It will be judged by the Chamber, but I would add that we have already decided that, after the first quarter, we will consider what the stakes should be for the second quarter on the basis of the current situation. The municipalities are going to carry out the TONK as we discussed with them: generous, perseverance of the course we have waged. That's what it's meant to be. Judgment Room. Then the motion to part No. 36 by Van Weyenberg and Smeulders. Judgment Room. That's about $5 million for working at home. The motion in part No. 37 belongs to Mr Teun van Dijck. That hurt me, Mr. Van Dijck, former colleague of the Finance Committee. It's really not "the computer says no," the computers are just smoking at the UWV and the SvB because of the many treatments. So this motion on the partner test, the third one today, has been dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 41 by Mr Azarkan. I would come back to that, because that was a question in the first term. If organisations meet the conditions, they can also benefit from the support measures, e.g. the TVL measure. At the same time, we cannot offer customization. Mr Van 't Wout just said the same thing, and I said it to the NOW. It's about such large numbers. However, it is possible that, for example, municipalities will be involved, and this is also happening in practice. We know that municipalities help community centers and that at municipal level that consideration can be made right. This is also the subject of consultation with the Minister for the Interior. That is also part of an additional support package in this or another letter from BZK. I'm gonna take a look at the Minister of Finance. That's a strange thing. Against that backdrop, there are talks going on about this motion, but we do have an eye for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u27	A brief comment, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u28	What exactly does that look like? In the conversations I have with this specific foundation from Spijkenisse, for example, I hear: "In itself, the municipality is quite prepared, but it cannot do that much. We have to carry these fixed burdens every month, and we just don't know where to get the money from."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u29	Mr. Azarkan, we're not negotiating motions. Just like a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u30	Mr Azarkan had also asked this question in the first term, so I will stand up for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u31	Well, he's very good at that himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u32	I know that, but a sympathetic gesture, right? I understand the question, but it just doesn't fit into the TVL scheme if you don't meet the conditions. As Mr Van 't Wout has just said, we do not have separate sectoral arrangements. We just can't do that. Then the primary process of the TVL and the NOW is in danger and I find that too high a risk. As far as civil society is concerned, I know that there is support at local level and that BZK is in consultation with the municipalities about its funding. I thought it was in this letter, but it's in a separate trajectory. I don't know about that, but I will bring this point to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I have to discourage the motion in this form. It's really about the design of TVL and the NOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u33	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u34	That's it for me, Mr. Chairman. The rest is for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u35	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment and then the Minister of Finance gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I was distracted for a moment by colleague Koolmees. I have three motions. The first is the motion in part No. 17. At the quartets, it was assigned to me. This motion is about sports. Colleagues were convinced that I would have more affinity with that. I can't quite judge that. In any case, I have a great deal of affinity with it and the cabinet also very much agrees with the content of the motion. The motion in part No. 17 I would therefore like to give judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 22 by Mrs Van Brenk. Very sympathetic what it says. I also see the issue of solvency and perhaps at a later stage, but the motion calls for the aid to be extended now, and the cabinet has now taken the view that the very strong movement we are now making should be sufficient. So I'm afraid I'm going to have to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 30 by Mr Van Haga on the cancellation of fines against entrepreneurs who have been on the streets after 9 p.m. to protect their shop. I can leave them in judgment room. I must say, however, that Mr Grapperhaus, who is on this subject, has already promised this, so who is very firm in the doctrine, could point out the need for the motion to be superfluous. The cabinet very much shares its contents. In my view, Minister Grapperhaus has stayed with the Chamber by referring once again to his positive basic attitude in this matter. He won't see if, but how he's gonna handle this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u37	Thank you. That concludes this debate. Oh, it is not yet clear what the cabinet response is to the Van Haga/Baudet motion in part No. 33.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u38	Mr. Chairman. Minister Koolmees considers that he is the motion in part No. 33 has already done. I don't know if he's been inspired by the proposers, but this one's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u39	This one has really been skipped, because it is kept very neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u40	This motion in part No. 33 of the gentlemen of Haga and Baudet is about the cancellation of debts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u41	Good. It's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u42	There are very long payback periods for it. We have often discussed with the Chamber that this is precisely the way to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u43	That for completeness, certainly, Mr. Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u44	I would like to thank all the Members of Parliament, the ministers, the messengers, the stenography service, the clerks and the staff of political groups. We're done with the debate. We will vote on the motions next Tuesday.
