ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u1	The next item is the amendment to the Coal Ban Act in connection with the reduction of CO emissions (35668). A warm word of welcome to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. Thank you for joining us. We have seen little of you here in this position, so what can I say: that can be more often! Thank you for joining us. We have 12 speakers from the Chamber, who have requested reasonable speaking time. So we're gonna take our time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u2	The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Boucke of the D66 Group. He has ten minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my speech, I wish those who make their maiden speech today every success. We're talking about two esteemed colleagues in a few minutes. Mr. Chairman. Our house is on fire. We need to move. We have made global agreements to reduce our CO emissions. With the law proposed by the Minister, we can take an important step and take action. But the final goal is not yet in sight: to combat climate change. As far as D66 is concerned, it is really painful that a court ruling was necessary to keep the cabinet to its own goals. D66 is very clear: we would have preferred that the judge did not have to use it at all. We must achieve the goals and the Dutch must be able to trust that this will happen. We must take into account the concerns of climate strikers and of the Grandparents for the Climate. What kind of signal are we sending to the next generation, the young people, for which we are doing it? I spoke to the climate strikers last week. Their concerns about the consequences of climate change for their future are great. They're asking politics to take action. That's what we do in this room. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is a missionary, but climate change is not a missionary. D66 has put this cabinet in the green, but it is not enough. The whole world is now going for climate action. Joe Biden, on the other side of the ocean, rolls out one ambitious billion-dollar program after another. Germany got a right-wing hit and turned this into action as quickly as possible: 65% in 2030 and climate-neutral in 2045. That's what they decided in a week. Ambitious climate policy is the future. We now need to focus on green recovery. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, for the first time in history, the CO price was higher than €50 per tonne. I have been able to work on this European system in Brussels for many years. The success was not always visible. There were even voices to stop, but we went through with it. Because for solving complex problems there are no quick fixes. With a sharp rise in CO prices, the urgent need for compensation for energy companies is becoming less and less acute. That's the profit of this system. What CO2 price has the Minister taken into account when drafting this bill, and is that still a real starting point? Because the price has risen very rapidly over the last few weeks. Two. How does the Minister intend to avoid overcompensation? Does the Minister choose to work with forward prizes and, if so, why? Does the Minister agree that the general interest is better served in working with ex post compensation on the basis of real prices? For let me be clear: D66 does not want to pay too much in compensation, not at all as the CO2 price rises. A third question to the Minister is: are the corresponding ETS rights withdrawn from the market in the context of the limitation of coal burning due to the integrity of our European system? Mr. Chairman. The growth of sun and wind is fast. The price of CO is rising; I just said it. There is therefore no point in continuing to subsidise these black coal plants. The already promised subsidy on biomass is a financial infusion for coal-fired power stations, which we have to get rid of in the long term. There are more and more reliable clean alternatives to energy generation. That is what we must do. Can the Minister confirm that biomass is finite and, if so, by when? Mr. Chairman. The intention is now to close all coal plants by 2030. As far as we're concerned, we need to speed this up. With the rapid growth of solar and wind energy in the Netherlands and the rising CO price, we can say goodbye to the coal power plants faster, but to achieve that we need political leadership and a much faster roll-out of wind farms at sea. The report prepared under the direction of Laura van Geest talks about 10 gigawatts when we start the preparations in 2021. Last Sunday, 9 May, it was Europe Day. Then we will look at what Europe has brought us, such as a European prize for pollution. When that CO2 price rises, the business price for fossil energy, such as coal power plants, is getting worse. That brings me to the following three points. Firstly, I would like to ask the Minister how he intends to speed up the closure of coal-fired power stations, so that they close not only in the Netherlands but throughout Europe. Secondly, negotiations are under way for the closure of the Rotterdam coal power station Riverstone. For D66 it is clear: once closed, remains closed. How does the Minister prevent Riverstone from getting back into the hands of some venture capitalist? Thirdly, we need to take care of Riverstone's employees. We must help them to find a new, future-proof job, with the help of a social plan and in consultation with the workers. Is the Minister already discussing a social plan for Riverstone workers with the workers and the workers' organisation? Our group is keen to be clear about this. Mr. Chairman. With the closure of the coal plants we are not yet there. This cabinet and this minister are missionary, but climate change is not missionary. What else is the Minister gonna do? Because we have an expensive duty to the next generations to really work on ambitious climate policies, to work on the further roll-out of sun and wind, to work on the development of sustainable and innovative techniques and to provide jobs for young people with a real, future-proof green job. We have a chance to work right now. With billions of domestic and foreign recovery funds, we can build that green economy of the future. This morning CSR Holland was standing here on our doorstep. They told us that entrepreneurs who are already doing sustainable work are more likely to face the blows of the corona crisis. We'll give it to every entrepreneur. That is why I ask the Minister how he is using national, international and European resources to get greener and thus stronger out of this crisis. We are moving away from coal and need new energy sources. How will the Minister speed up clean energy production? Just now take the chances of accelerating wind energy at sea, my advice to the Minister. There is a chance of 10 gigawatts, for example in the north of the Netherlands. Finally, I ask the Minister to remain in talks with the Urgenda Foundation. I also call on the outgoing Prime Minister to talk to them quickly. I would have liked to have a plenary debate with the Prime Minister, but my appeal to the Prime Minister stands. Mr President, in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u4	First, a question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u5	I wanted to go to Rotterdam with Mr Boucke, because that is where people work at the Onyxcentrale. You call that the Riverstone plant, but that is the name of the shareholder who bought it there for 50 million, and has now applied for 238 million to close the Onyx plant. What does the D66 fraction think of that relationship?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u6	Rotterdam is very close to my heart. It's the city I've lived in for a long time. The jobs of the people in Rotterdam are also very dear to me. I bet on greening. That's also in the D66 election programme. I also think that greening should be done in a very smart way. That's why I'm making a plea to raise the CO price. It's going in the right direction, and as far as I'm concerned, that price is going up even further. What you get when the CO price goes up is that the market itself is going to do its job and that we don't have to take any compensatory measures at all. That's gonna be paid for by the market. That's how it's supposed to go with D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u7	However, a grant of 238 million has been requested from this Minister for the voluntary closure of this plant. When these shareholders bought four power stations, they paid 200 million for it. So I asked about that affair. I didn't ask what your election program is saying, but what you think this government is looking at is a grant of 238 million. There was no answer to that affair. Let me then put the next follow-up question to that. Doesn't that include the fact that if the plant closes, the staff will be helped in any case in a good way from work to work or with a social plan? How does D66 feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u8	I have just mentioned in my speech that D66 wants a good social plan for all workers affected by the closure of coal power stations. That is what we have done with the Hemwegcentrale and, as far as I am concerned, we are going to do so with any other power station that will close in the near future; hence my question to the Minister. Mrs Leijten, you will find me on your side when it comes to a good social plan for those people who are in danger of losing their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u9	I'm very happy to hear that. I asked written questions about this and they were answered an hour or two before the start of the debate. The Minister is not involved in those talks. He'll wait and see. I've been at a break from the staff and from the supply chain. There is no conversation possible, and the shareholder Riverstone has no money left for a good social plan. I therefore hope that D66 will support the amendment to lay down the legal framework for the existence of such a coal fund, as it has been called, so that workers can be helped in the closure of a coal power plant. The Minister is looking at a grant application of almost 250 million, but he does not really care about those workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u10	I await the Minister's answers, and I like to look at texts from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u11	Climate party D66 is talking. There is a lot of high-quality language used about climate change and we need to do something about it for our children. Of course, it's always a weakness when you bring in children in such a political discussion, but okay. It's a little bit of a concrete story, though. The Netherlands is responsible for only 0.35% of all CO emissions worldwide. I would like to hear from D66 what the effect of this bill is, because that is what it is about: reducing the production of coal plants to 35%. What does that do to the global temperature of the Earth? Can D66 add a math to that, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u12	I am very pleased that we are standing here today, because today we are ensuring that we keep the state to the commitments that have been made. We didn't just make those appointments. We have made these agreements because we want to play a leading role in the world in the fight against climate change. We do this by making agreements at national, international and, in particular, at European level. All these agreements must ensure that we remain within the 1.5°C or 2°C target. We'll bet on that as D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u13	That, of course, is not an answer to the question at all. We're dealing with a bill here, an amendment to the Coal Ban Act. The coal plants will all be closed by 2030. That's a big deal. A rather far-reaching bill is now before us again. Then I'm just asking D66 very specifically: what is the impact of this bill on the global evolution of Earth's temperature? That's just a very specific question. Because that's what it's all about, you'd say: combating climate change. That is what Mr Boucke himself says. Conclusion: he actually has no idea, just no idea. This is how it is often done in a climate debate: just no idea. For that, our reliable, stable energy supply will simply be demolished to the ground. That's not a way, is it? Nota bene your party leader talks about "doing or dying." Climate change, we have to do something about it, or we're all gonna die. Perhaps you could elaborate on that statement? What are we supposed to mean by that? Just a little more concrete. It's all so vague.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u14	We are discussing a bill here today to ensure that we actually achieve 25% reduction in the coming years. We're not there yet. That's what we're talking about here today. I want to talk to the Minister about these figures today. I have a lot of questions for the Minister. We have to do this bill, but my questions are about whether it is enough. That's the underlying question. The Minister will answer that in a moment. I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u15	Asking a lot of questions, of course, that's all fine. But can't I assume that D66 has an idea of his own? The party is in any case part of this missionary cabinet. You have practically co-tabled this bill. Again, just concretely: what is this bill going to do? The State itself has already indicated in the Urgenda court case if you do not know the figures, I shall just mention that the additional CO reduction as ordered by the judge leads to a lower global warming of 0,000045°C in 2100. It can't even be measured. Can you go into that? It's all bullshit we're doing here, isn't it? And that is why you want to break down our stable energy supply completely, and shut down the coal power stations? Thousands of people work there, and they're all just gonna be on the street. People are gonna lose their jobs in no time at the latest in nine years. And you're doing all that for the 0.000045°C, which I have to tell you, because you have no idea. It's really horrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u16	May I still respond, Mr. Chairman? Thank you. What D66 stands for is green jobs. So those jobs Mr. Kops is talking about, we're gonna make green jobs out of them, with a good social plan. We are going to ensure that the Netherlands remains a leader in the fight against climate change, but we cannot do that alone. That is what we must do in Europe. And we've been working for that for the past four years. That we do not meet Mr Kops on our side, I am very sorry, but I hope that we will do this with the part of the Chamber that does, in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u17	Can I ask you one more question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u18	No, we're going to see Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u19	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u20	No, not short either. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u21	I am pleased that D66 says such ambitious words: "the world is on fire" and "urgency." This is not the time to look back on what the current cabinet has done with D66, but rather to look forward. And then I'd like to focus on biomass. Your predecessor has already answered a lot of the questions you are asking. When's it gonna end? How much is it? It's already known. And as far as you are not yet aware, until 2032, some EUR 9 billion of subsidies will go to biomass. That's forgiven. What are we gonna do to stop that? How far is D66 willing to go? That's question one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u22	First of all, I asked the Minister a few questions. I'm waiting for the answers, but I'd like to take the opportunity to tell you what D66 is going for. And that is: full of wind, especially wind at sea, and also as much solar energy as possible. We'll probably need more, but I'll come back to that later, probably in the second term. We will then be able to move away from the coal-fired power stations and from co-incineration of biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u23	I just mentioned EUR 9 billion, and my question was how far D66 goes. We'll see about that. Then question two. D66 has recently made a very good move with regard to biomass, and has also come to the conclusion that we need to get rid of it as quickly as possible. The Minister doesn't want that yet. Is D66 ready to start measuring the emissions from biomass, as in the case of aviation, for example? So we know what it is, even though Europe says it is neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u24	I just received a compliment from Mr Van Raan. Thank you. I await, once again, the Minister's answers first. Then we will look at possible texts that you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u25	Fine. You're finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u26	Mr President, in conclusion. There is a crisis that is putting our world, our health and our economy at risk. That is the climate crisis. And we can prevent that, but then we must dare to lead the way, here in the Netherlands and in Europe. And if politics keeps its own commitments, there will be no need for a judge to use them anymore. In the previous Chamber period, ten out of 13 parties had an agreement on the closure of coal plants in 2030. That is why I now call on all parties to show the same unity of political action and to build together on the green recovery. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u27	Thank you. This is a special meeting, because we have no less than three maiden speeches. Yeah, how beautiful you can make it, I say. And the first is that of Mr Erkens of the VVD group. He's gonna catch us up for 12 minutes. You know how things are: you cannot interfere and Mr Erkens undoubtedly has a nice personal word for us. Listen and shudder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I was 6 years old, my mother and I were a personal note, as you said, visiting my grandmother in Heerlen. From the balcony of her gallery apartment you saw, as they were still called quite disrespectful, the heroin whores on the street corner, during the day. On my way to the bus station, my mom told me to keep walking on the sidewalk. You don't want your 6-year-old son getting into a used drug needle. The junkies were in the hundreds in the nineties in Heerlen. How could it have come to this? To understand that, we have to go back to Kerkrade in the year of my father's birth, 1960. Kerkrade, my city, and the region around it, the mining region, drove on the black gold, the coal mines. In Kerkrade, the comels often worked hundreds of metres underground. In some neighbourhoods, even 80% of men worked in mines. Workers from all over the world had gone to Kerkrade to work there in the mines. The work was of course also very dangerous and unhealthy. In addition, church, government and mining had an iron grip on society at that time. But they were also proud communities. You got your pack of sugar from the neighbors. The gardens were well cared for. The social solidarity and the local pride were great. In Heerlen, the prosperity at that time was enormous. Heerlen was then the richest and most modern city in the Netherlands. There were no more people in fur coats. That was the standard of wealth back then. This was the situation when my father was born in 1960. However, the coal market quickly changed, making the Limburg coal less attractive on the world market. On 17 December 1965 Minister Den Uyl announced the closure of the mines. The idea was that there would be replacement work. A lot of money went to the mining area. From good intentions, but with insufficient regard for results. The result was guessed: about 75,000 jobs were lost; 75,000 jobs were lost in an area of 20 by 40 kilometres. Despite all the support, around 10,000 jobs were lost, less than half of them for former miners. A small group of people became very rich from the subsidy pot, but not the ordinary workers in the region. The miners themselves were unemployed at home, sometimes with dust lungs. That's a horrible condition where you can't breathe anymore. The decay started and 30 years after the mine shut down, as a young boy I walked through Heerlen, the low point was reached. The historic centre of Heerlen was demolished, the unemployment was enormous in the region, the social problem of alcoholism, drug abuse, crime, was hugely out of touch and confidence in politics, but also in each other, had fallen to a sad low. Fearless poverty and unemployment passed on from generation to generation in some neighbourhoods: that was the result of those beautiful intentions of the day. Although the scars are still visible, the prospect in the region is fortunately improving. The region has been picking up again in recent years. There is more work, young people retreating to the region due to relatively affordable housing prices and DSM and Chemelot are doing well. Region, province and municipalities are working hard on the future. As my region is undergoing a transition, so is our climate and energy policy, the so-called climate transition. It's up to us to work on the future. It is up to us to leave this country better for the next generations. As the closure of the Limburg coal mines was inevitable and necessary, so was the climate transition. However, in order to go well through the huge challenge of climate transition, we need to learn lessons from the past. Lessons from the mine closure and its consequences. Lessons that are in my capillaries as a child from the mining region. It is about the following question: who pays the price for it and who is making money from the change? Despite all good intentions and flows of money from the government, the mining region paid a high price. The region has taken decades to get back on track. This mistake must not be made in the climate transition. It must not be the case that the burden falls only on people at home or in a specific region. This should not widen the gap between Randstad and the region. We have to go through this transition together as one country. That requires more than a policy with fine intentions. It requires a policy that focuses on the outcome, a policy that does what works. That's the result people at home can finally take care of us, because that's why we're here. Mr. Chairman. As a proud child from the mining region, from Kerkrade, I have seen and experienced that good intentions alone can have a negative effect on a region and what its consequences are. I will therefore fight day in and day out for the people at home to take advantage of the opportunities offered by this transition. I will fight to do what is necessary and to do what works for everyone. And that is that we leave our country and this world better for the next generations in a way that offers opportunities for all of us. Mr. Chairman. The amendment of the Coal Ban Act in connection with the reduction of CO emissions is before us today. The final steps on the coal road have been used; of the black gold, as we called it then. The VVD welcomes the proposed legislative amendment, as we have to comply with the Urgenda judgment as well as our wider climate ambitions towards 2030 and 2050. The limitation of the use of coal in electricity production seems a logical measure to achieve rapid results. Mr. Chairman. However, I still have a number of concerns that I would like to get a response from the Minister. Firstly, in the explanatory statement, the Minister states that this bill may have an impact on the price paid by citizens and businesses for their electricity use. The Minister expects a possible marginal increase. How's the secretary gonna keep an eye on this? How does the Minister ensure that energy prices remain affordable for people at home? What measures does the Minister take if electricity prices were to rise as a result of this legislative amendment? Secondly, we read in the note following the report that the gap left by coal power stations is being absorbed by Dutch gas plants, because of the low gas price. That's a good thing, 'cause they're cleaner. In addition, there is a chance that we will get some of our electricity from abroad to replace it. Does the Minister expect that German lignite plants will also be polluting? How is production in the Netherlands prevented from being taken over by more polluting foreign power stations, such as lignite power stations? Because that would have a negative effect on balance. Thirdly and finally, in the explanatory statement, the Minister states that there is no prospect of any or no impact on the employment of coal-fired power stations, since human resources are not dependent on the level of production. Mr. Chairman. I have just spoken about how employment in the mining area was going. This point is therefore very important to me. It seems unlikely to me that the combination of the production restriction and the tender for voluntary closure as well as the forthcoming final ban on coal use in 2025 and 2030 will not have a significant impact on employment. This is a fundamental question. How do we deal with employees in a sector that is finite? So they are in uncertainty. How does the Minister monitor the effects of this? Does the Minister agree that it is better to look at perspective for these workers in good time? What action does the Minister take if employment is put under short-term pressure? That was my input for this term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u29	Thank you. That's a maiden speech. A nice personal story combined with a bit of policy analysis! You could hear a pin fall. Every president will love you because you've signed up for 12 minutes, but you've only used up eight. If you continue to do so, you will become very popular with the chairman of the service. I'd like to invite you to step forward for a moment. Then I'll be the first to congratulate you. That's a great honor for me. Of course, I do that with a corona-resistant bending. Then I would like to call on colleagues to come and congratulate you. I can see there's a nice bouquet headed your way. I'm suspending for a few moments for this wonderful moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u30	Very good. Then we'll continue with our next maiden speaker. That is Mr Thijssen of the Group of the Party of Labour. The bar is high, but I'm sure he also has something beautiful to entertain us for the next ten minutes. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President and colleagues. I was just a little boy when it became known that Wubbo Ockels would be the first astronaut, the first Dutchman, in space. I closed my eyes and I imagined what that would be like, to float in space and then see this beautiful earth: the blue of the oceans and the green of the forests, the continents. I was determined: I became an astronaut. I've lasted a long time. So it was very simple: I went to study space science, because then I could become an astronaut. I couldn't eat my luck when a few years later it turned out that Wubbo Ockels became a professor in Delft. That same week I sat at his table and said, "I'm going to graduate with you." But when I was in college, I was caught by something else at some point. 'Cause what turned out? That beautiful earth I wanted to see from space was and is under threat. Later it appeared that the whole of humanity has had that experience that I had then. That was also space travel during the Apollo 8 mission, because then people flew around the earth for the first time. I imagined what that was like: they're in the spaceship, they get to the moon at some point and they go behind the back of the moon. Then they can't communicate with the Earth anymore and sit around waiting for them to see the Earth again. They floated in that capsule, with a camera ready, and of course began to photograph the rise of the earth. And that photo, Earthrise, went over the world and smashed it, apparently, I wasn't in it like a bomb. One time, all the people on earth saw where all life really was: on that little ball, in that immeasurable space, where there really is no planet B. Everyone understood: we have to get along on that earth, because if we screw up, we have nowhere else to go. Despite Earthhrise, the Earth is extremely warmed up. It is crystal clear that this has enormous consequences: it causes droughts, floods, extreme weather, drinking water shortages, and there are predictions that it will lead to wars and huge flows of refugees. It is right that we say that this really threatens society as we know it. That is not the only problem that man has caused. Life on Earth is also threatened. Innumerable numbers of members, a million species on Earth, are threatened by how we deal with each other and with our earth. Luckily, there's hope, too. In 2015, the countries of the world met. They concluded the Paris climate agreement. That's actually a damn good chord for a piece. Because the countries there agreed to do so, this Parliament has also approved it, so that we should limit that temperature increase as much as possible and that we should stay as close as possible to that 1.5 degree in order to avoid the worst consequences of climate change. That's really super good. That's quite right, because it can. When I look into the future, I see a Netherlands where people live in comfortable, well-insulated houses, where it is good to live. Because the leaders of that time have done well, the housing costs have remained the same. The power that comes out of the electrical sockets is of course green, because it is generated with the solar panels on the roof or by the windmill around the corner, which has been placed there with participation and with support of residents. When I look into the future, I see a Netherlands with a green, innovative industry that creates a lot of jobs, that is future-proof and that uses green electricity and green hydrogen instead of oil and gas. When I look into the future, I see an agricultural sector that is part of the solution and where farmers make honest products, for which they get a fair price, while we ensure that food does not become terribly much more expensive. To achieve all that beauty and to achieve the Netherlands I see for myself, I think three things are crucial. One. We should not trivialize this problem, let alone deny it. It is a huge task that we all face: the world, the Netherlands and also this House of Representatives. We shouldn't pretend it's a small thing. It's huge. People have a lot of concerns about it. We need to take these concerns seriously and take them away as best we can. I am sure that everyone in the Netherlands will be willing to contribute to solving this enormous problem. The second that is crucial: if we do this honestly, we can be successful. You can't worry about the end of the world if you're worried about the end of the month. One can expect people to support and expect them to contribute to the climate solution when they see that the major polluters in this society also have to contribute to solving this problem, and that they do not just have to pay for money, but that they also make a fair financial contribution. You can only expect cooperation from the employees of a coal power plant if you acknowledge the fine work they do, and what pride they have in their work. You really have to stand next to them and say: we're going to help you get green skills and a green job, because the coal plant really needs to shut down. Finally. The third thing we really need to do to solve this problem and to get the beautiful vision I see is to really, really, really stop with our ears hanging on to the fossil industry. The fossil industry has made its short-term profit over our long-term health and Earth's for 100 years. She's not gonna tell us how to get rid of the fossil fuels. We have to do that ourselves here, in this House of Representatives. Whether they want to be part of the solution is up to them to figure it out, but we have here together to figure out how to achieve this huge transition. Mr. Chairman. After twenty years of climate activism, I am now in the House of Representatives. And I am going to use every minute given to me in this Chamber to express the hope and vision I have for that sustainable and honest future, to unite benevolent forces in this Chamber, but also in society, to bridge differences. In this way, I hope to talk not only about the problems and the solutions, but also, above all, a lot to do and to really get things done. That's what most of the Dutch expect from us. The majority of the Dutch, according to poll polls, want this problem to be resolved quickly. That's what all that life on Earth expects, that's threatened. That's what the students expect. That is what the 40,000 protesters, who went out this year and two years ago for a safe climate, expect. And that's what my boys, Luuk and Finn, expect from me. Mr. Chairman. Then we come to this debate. If it weren't so expensive and it wouldn't cost so much energy, I'd give it to the Minister to take a rocket and take a little distance from the Earth. Then the minister himself could see the beauty, but also the vulnerability of the earth; then he could see for himself how fragile the atmosphere is, which makes all that life on earth possible. Maybe he'd make his move in time. Because what's in front of us today is too little, too late. Almost six years after the Urgendavonnis, this law is ahead of us to stop partially using the most polluting form of energy. According to Kalavasta, this year's Urgenda goal is far from being met. And if we were to close all the coal plants for the rest of the year, it is very doubtful whether the objective of the Urgendavonnis will be achieved this year; I suspect not. That is why my question to the Minister is: how much reduction does he think is needed to achieve the goal by 2021? Doesn't the Minister think that at least full closure of the power stations will be necessary in 2021 in order to reach the target this year? Isn't it smarter to keep the power stations closed in 2022, so that we know for sure that we will reach the target in 2022? Because the judge also said something about that: to be sure. I do not understand why the Minister wants to limit CO emissions from polluting coal plants to 2024. Doesn't the climate change after that? Shouldn't we get the CO emissions down much further after the Urgendavonnis? So shouldn't we stop the coal plants from opening even after 2024? I read that the Minister is considering whether the owners of the coal power stations should be compensated. That's the world upside down, isn't it? I just said in my maiden speech that since 1968 everyone on Earth knows there is no planet B. To build coal power plants in 2007 is simply very stupid. Or at least if you want to do it already, it's entirely at your own entrepreneurial risk. Follow the Money also made it clear two years ago that these companies willingly took these risks. Can the Minister therefore assure me that he will do everything in his power to ensure that only one euro does not go to these companies? Or else can he make sure there's as little money as possible going that way? I therefore think Mr Grinwis's amendment is very good and clever, and I wholeheartedly support it. Finally, Mr President. The Minister says that this law has no impact on employees. Like the previous speaker, I am not convinced of that, so I would very much like to guarantee that this is the case. If you cannot or do not want to give it, I would like the undertaking that the workers who may lose their jobs will be subject to the same arrangement as applied to the closure of the Hemweg coal power station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u32	Thank you. You wanted to be an astronaut, but the function of MP is of course also quite nice. In any case, you can't get any higher under state law. I predict that if your speeches remain of this quality, you will rise to great heights. If you'd like to step forward, I'll be the first to congratulate you. After that, there is room for colleagues to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u33	Very good. That was the second maiden speech. At the end of the first term of the Chamber we have the third and last maiden speech. It belongs to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Kops of the Group of the Party of European Socialists for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u34	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, of course, congratulations to Mr Erkens and Mr Thijssen for their maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. The PVV keeps saying: climate policy is nonsensical, unfeasible and priceless. The bill we are debating today is yet another example of that. In 2015, Urgenda Foundation, some dubious sustainability club, filed a lawsuit against the State. And why? To force the Netherlands to do more against climate change, to do more against CO emissions. And why? Because otherwise future generations will be at risk, Urgenda says. And that while the Netherlands, that very small country, is responsible for only 0.35% of total global CO emissions. It's totally negligible. And here is the grandeur of the Dutch climate preachers. It is therefore all the worse that climate madness has now also reached the judiciary. Because up to the Supreme Court, which we better call the CO Council, Urgenda is in the same position. In 2020, more precisely, "should" CO emissions be reduced by at least 25%, according to the judge. That's wrong. That's wrong in all respects. It's wrong because climate policy isn't up to court, it's up to politics, to us here. And it's wrong because it has disastrous consequences. So, what's next? The 25% reduction in CO by 2020, as ordered by the judge, is most likely not achieved. And despite the corona crisis we're all in. And if you let that get to you, so even the biggest crisis since the Second World War, where the whole country has virtually fallen silent, is apparently not enough to meet the climate targets. There is an economic crisis, people are losing their jobs, companies are falling apart, the International Energy Agency has even said that energy demand has collapsed over the past year. But no, all of that is apparently not enough to achieve those goals. Then the question is: what is? It demonstrates the unfeasible nature of climate policy as a whole. Perhaps that is what the left-wing parties mean by 'climate crisis': that there will still be a lot of crises, poverty and misery coming towards us in a dreary but vain attempt to achieve these climate goals, including through the legislative proposal we are debating today. In 2019, the Chamber accepted the Coal Ban Act. This means that all power stations must be closed by 2030 at the latest. Of course, the PVV voted against. And now, in the run-up to that final closure, this bill should limit the electricity production of coal plants to 35%. Everything in an attempt to achieve those CO-climate targets. Mr. Chairman. Then the question is: what exactly is this bill based on? Officially, final figures on 2020 emissions are not yet available at all. And I have already asked in an interruption debate with D66 what exactly is the climate effect of this bill? Then, of course, the Minister can come up with all kinds of assumptions, probabilities, uncertainties and calculations about tons of CO savings, but what does this bill actually do with Earth's temperature? 'Cause that's what it's all about, isn't it? I'd like an extensive calculation. And I expect it with a lot of zeroes behind the decimal point. Mr. Chairman. Let us not forget that it was the State itself that argued in the Urgenda case that this additional CO reduction, as ordered by the judge, leads to a reduced global warming of only 0.000045°C, and only in 2100. In doing so, the State itself wanted to demonstrate in that Urgenda case that the actual climate effect is totally negligible. I quote: 'No measurable impact on the risk of climate change'. It's just the words of the state. In other words, it's all messed up in the margins. Mr. Chairman. But how false is it that at the same time the same State, this cabinet, this minister, is doing nothing but pouring more, more, more climate policy on the country? Now this bill again. And why? Why should the production of coal plants now be restricted? Why is that necessary? Because less than a week ago, the Dutch Emission Authority announced that coal power plant emissions were already halved last year. Halfway! At the same time, however, the share of biomass in the energy sector has increased significantly, by more than 130%, while biomass releases more CO than coal and gas. When you think about it, it's hard to understand, isn't it? Coal deprived of our most modern, cleanest plants must therefore stop, because that is bad for the climate, but burning entire trees in polluting biomass plants must go on, because that is good for the climate. How is this possible? What's behind this? In fact, it is nothing more than a vulgar accounting trick, because the CO emissions of biomass are not included in the climate accounting, but the emissions of coal and gas, for example. Therefore, a distinction is made in CO based on origin. How weird do you want it? Climate has nothing to do with it anymore. Mr. Chairman. Admittedly, all of us do not need this whole CO reduction, but if you think about this: it's nothing but folk polish. Climate scam. Chatting for the stage about CO reduction, while actually using biomass only increases CO emissions. In this way we can see that it is no longer a question of CO emissions for a long time, as long as it is true on paper, if necessary with a bit of deception, and as long as the billions of subsidies can be pumped around at taxpayers' expense. This has made climate policy an end in itself. It's an end in itself, and then weird things happen, really weird things. See, for example, the biomass power plant planned in Diemen, which at least wants a party like GroenLinks so badly. It must become the largest in the country, with as much as EUR 400 million subsidy. Every year more than 200,000 tonnes of wood will be used. Whole woods are being hijacked. GroenLinks as biomass party. Nota bene GroenLinks as a natural destruction party. It's called climate policy. Or wind turbines: everywhere these things are plundered, without citizens having any say in it. Bad for the environment, bad for nature, bad for health. It's called climate policy. Or look at the gas ban. Households who make gas connections in Germany receive money because gas is so clean. Here in the Netherlands, everyone has to get rid of the gas for many tens of thousands of euros because it is so dirty. It's inexplicable. And that's called climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u35	A question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u36	Mr Kops wants to put GroenLinks in a certain angle so much that I think: I have to say something about it. The way he thinks I know it's like no other, it's about government policy. If a municipality is faced with licence applications from companies in accordance with the law, a municipality is not competent to determine whether or not a plant opens. Nor is it up to a municipal group, in this case aldermen of GroenLinks, to determine whether the Empire wishes to refrain from subsidising by-products of biomass. That's up to us here in the Lower House. My party has indicated, also in a calculated election programme, that we want to get rid of it. So this framing isn't very sensible. I hope that Mr Kops will not do that for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u37	I need to think. That was a very confusing story. I'm gonna need to get that settled. Mr Van der Lee can now come up with what he wants, but GroenLinks, his party, including in Amsterdam, is very much in favour of biomass. Your party, Mr. Van der Lee. The largest biomass plant in the Netherlands will be built there. EUR 400 million grant. Every year more than 200,000 tonnes of wood will be used. In countries such as Estonia and Latvia, complete forests are being cut down to burn them in GroenLinks plants. Then Mr Van der Lee can look away now, of course it is very painful for me to say this, but it is your policy. GroenLinks stands for biomass, the cutting of trees to burn and the cutting of trees to set wind turbines. Indeed, GroenLinks as a natural destruction party, and also subsidised. Mr. Chairman. Look at countries like China and India. New coal-fired power stations are being built. But here in the Netherlands, the few power stations we still have must all be shut down in nine years at the latest. Such hypocrisy. That too is called 'climate policy'. I can go on like this for a while, with a very long list. That is climate policy now. It's all about hypocrisy. Mr. Chairman. What to think about it has just gone on about employment? I'm going back to the bill, to the coal power stations. What about all those people who work hard in those power stations? It's about their job, their income, their livelihood. The Minister writes that this bill "is expected to have little or no impact on the employment of these coal plants." "Not expected or hardly expected" is very vague. Can the Minister explain that? Because now say for yourself: if there is less coal to be sprayed, then that also has consequences for logistics, to name but a few. Do we need fewer people there? Is that where you're gonna get fired? Furthermore, the Minister writes, and it's kind of nasty as he writes: "If there are any consequences for the personnel, then the employer himself is primarily responsible for his own employees." That may be so, but of course it sounds very easy. So first introduce a coal ban by 2030 at the latest, this minister will have to shut down all the power stations in the run-up to that, and then the minister will tell all the people who work there and worry about their jobs: well, go to your boss and figure it out. Well, that's basically what it's all about. In the meantime, what about the so-called coal fund of, I thought, 22 million? In other words, a tissue for bleeding. That's what it's really meant to do, to help redundant workers find a new job, for retraining and so on. What about the former employees of the now closed Hemwegcentrale? Did all these people get a new job, yes or no? Vattenfall says they're all under the roof. "All under the roof," what does that even mean? Under the roof at the UWV? Or do they all have jobs again? I'd like an update. Mr. Chairman. If you let that green madness get to you, in every climate debate, the question is again: Cabinet, Minister, what the hell are you doing? Let me answer that question myself. This cabinet, this minister, is working to turn our reliable and stable supply of coal and gas into an expert exchange for unreliable, weather-dependent energy from wind and sun. Previously, network operator TenneT said that from 2025 the power supply will no longer be self-evident. That's a big deal. That's very serious. The power supply will not be taken for granted. In other words, the self-evidentness of having energy at all, of being able to live in a warm house and of being able to pay the energy costs must be replaced by the blinding climate ideology. Mr. Chairman. The conclusion is that this is not a climate policy but a mispolicy and that it is destroying so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u38	Thank you. One more question from Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u39	My first question is actually more of a comment. I did not know that it was possible to ignore what GroenLinks says about the position of that party and that it is said so loudly that it would not be. I think GroenLinks is just saying what they stand for. But I have two questions for the speaker. My first question is this. I don't think you and I are agreeing on how serious climate change is...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u40	You can try.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u41	...but the highest judge in this country has said that the cabinet must do more to protect its own citizens. I hear you arguing that these citizens should not be protected. Can we not agree that at least we respect that ruling, whether the judge has sat in the seat of politics or not? Can we not say that the government needs to do more to protect its own citizens from climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u42	This has certainly been a political judgment of the judge. I have already said that climate policy is not up to the courts, but to politics, to us. We have to decide whether we are talking about climate policy at all, what kind of climate policy, or what percentage of CO. All this doesn't have to be done by the PVV, but this has to be decided. Yeah, that's a political statement that sucks. For example, the High Council is talking about 25% CO reduction by 2020. Then you have to start wondering where that percentage actually comes from. That's from IPCC reports. It's been discussed at the climate summits. But there hasn't been any hard deals made about it. Even the judge says about this 25%: no standard with direct effect has been established. That's what the judge says. And yet the judge is now laying it on us. That's beyond comprehension. This only shows that we should be dealing here with climate policy, not the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u43	Good. So I note that the judge says that the government needs to do more to protect its citizens and that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u44	And we don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u45	... Ignore that. Then there's my second question. You say you're worried about people who might...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u46	Would you like to speak through the chairman? So "Mr. Kops says." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u47	Sorry. Mr Kops says that he is concerned about the crisis and its impact on people's jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u48	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u49	I would say: let us then make a plan on how we can get these people back into jobs, and then, in my opinion, we should use the facts that a fossil economy generates less jobs than a green economy. So can Mr Kops and I join forces and create more jobs in this country by investing in a green economy, not for the climate, but for the jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u50	As far as jobs are concerned, of course, the reasoning is wrong. So first you're gonna kill thousands of jobs. You just put people out on the street. And then you're gonna say to them, "Here's a bag of money for a little retrain; figure it out." That's bullshit, of course. Secondly, the farce of green jobs. TNO has already done research, in 2019. At that time it was said that the Climate Agreement would create a lot of green jobs, but later TNO had to change the conclusion because the employment effect is virtually zero. In March 2019, the CPB reported that the job impact of climate policy is very limited. In other words, there will be no green jobs at all. In other words, you put the thousands of people from, for example, coal power stations on the streets first, and then you leave them to their own devices. It's really outrageous. It's about people's jobs, about their income. You'll have to work there at one of those coal power stations. You'll probably only be a little older, and there I'll just mention some of the paperwork. And then what? Do you have to get retrained and start building a windmill all of a sudden? Or do you have to install solar panels? What a farce. That's not gonna work. Those people come out on the street and just don't get a decent job anymore. It's terrible that the jobs of these people here in this Chamber are being soldered. Actually, that's it. You want to kill those jobs for your own climate ideology. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u51	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I congratulate Mr Erkens and Mr Thijssen on their wonderful speeches. Mr Erkens shows that a transformation, a transition, although sometimes painfully possible. That's good to know, because we're really facing one of the biggest challenges of the next ten years: making a transition again. I thank Mr Thijssen for the wonderful image of Earthrise, of the vulnerability of the world if you consider it from a distance. I am also very grateful to him for quoting our electoral programme. There is indeed no planet B. I look forward to Mr Jansen's maiden speech, although I don't see him right now. Anyway, good luck. Mr. Chairman. After years of insufficient action, the state of the climate is now calling for radical measures, which is to drastically reduce the emissions of harmful greenhouse gases in the very short term. I am sure you will not be surprised that the idea of a substantial reduction in coal combustion emissions is very much in the interest of the Party for Animals. Of course, we must prevent the medicine from being worse than the disease. The Minister will agree with us. And here's the problem. That is not yet to be ruled out by this law, and I want to talk about it with this Minister tonight. In addition to setting the bar too low again, reference has already been made to it by the PvdA. The reduction limit is temporary. Following a comment from the Council of State, the reduction limitation until 2024 instead of until 2023 is one year difference without any clear explanation. So, structurally, it's not settled again. What's 2024 based on? Why does the limitation not run until the coal ban in 2030? Is the Minister still prepared to continue this production restriction until 2030? With a problem shift, you won't fight climate change. The Minister writes: "This bill limits coal generation to 35%, but does not affect any other use of the production facilities." That is precisely where the problem lies, and it is good that the Minister himself is so clear about it. Coal emissions may go down, but every efficiency-thinking plant thinks of course: I switch to biomass. What would the Minister do if he were a profit-thinking coal power station? Here too, the Minister himself gives the answer: "Production from biomass does not count for the proposed production restriction for coal. Power stations can therefore in practice produce more electricity than the proposed production limit if it is generated by biomass (or other alternatives). That's the problem. The burning of biomass is even more polluting than coal, according to the National Agency for Enterprise Netherlands, up to a factor of 1.15. Something special is happening here. Mr Kops pointed that out. Something magical is happening: biomass emissions are not included. Not because it would not be there, but because it was Europe's decision. The European organisation of scientific academies already wrote in 2018 that the current way of calculating is incorrect and very risky. We've often asked questions about that. Is it true that CO emissions from biomass are not measured at all? And, if so, how can the Minister rule out, if more is later emitted by biomass and he does not measure it, that coal reduction reduces it? Of course, the best thing would be for him to listen to science better, but it doesn't look like it. Is he at least prepared to measure those CO emissions from biomass and, if not, why not? If all the coal plants switch completely to biomass, how much are they going to emit? Can the Minister take into account an increase in use in the biomass phasing-out path he has promised, when he is actually making a phasing-out path? When can the Chamber expect this phasing-out path? We've asked for that many times. Mr. Chairman. The Minister writes that with additional biomass stimulation, the desired CO reduction cannot be achieved in the short term, as biomass also leads to higher CO emissions. Of course, I can only endorse that. He also writes that he is not going to provide additional subsidies for biomass, but that the subsidies already provided can be extended after 2024. That amounts to EUR 9.5 billion. There is also a new subsidy, and that is what this is all about, Mr President. A new subsidy will be added, i.e. a grant for the provision of flexible capital. Mr. Chairman. Then there's other things. As a result of the production restriction, the cabinet expects to have to import electricity, but the Minister does not intend to purchase certificates of origin. Why doesn't the Minister want to know where that import energy comes from? Does the cabinet intend to import only renewable electricity or just what is cheapest? Then there are the allowances. As a result of the production restriction, power stations no longer need some of the allowances. What happens to those allowances? A share remains negotiable. Can the Minister rule out our emissions from production restrictions moving to another country? Mr. Chairman. Acting like you're doing something is actually doing nothing. That is worse, because then the disaster can take place in silence. If the Minister really wants to do something for the climate, why does he not simply abolish the exemption from coal tax? It was already incomprehensible that he introduced it in 2016. If you want to discourage something, you're not going to encourage it, are you? How does the Minister view this? Is he prepared to abolish them? And if he is not, can he at least share with the Court, pursuant to Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act, documents demonstrating that the coal exemption contributes to the climate forecast? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the downside compensation. How does the coal tax exemption, which has cost the taxpayer around 90 million a year since 2016, relate to the loss compensation? Is this included in the calculation of the fee? What does it show that the Minister intends to pay for the loss compensation? In what budget lines can we find it, or the reservation thereof, later? Why is disadvantage compensation paid at all? Companies could have long known that investing in coal was irresponsible, as the colleague of the PvdA pointed out. I'm considering a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. Reality is changing rapidly and the cabinet seems to be catching up again. The recent ruling by the German Constitutional Court on the climate law there promises little good for the Climate Law here and shows that we cannot rule out a new climate issue. For too long, doing nothing or starting too late is the beauty of the fact that the predecessor of this minister, Eric Wiebes, finally admitted that we have started too late and done too little for the next generation, can lead to very far-reaching restrictions on democratic rights to save the environment. That is also the reason why the German court is demanding additional measures. That is why Germany is tightening up. The reason is that it will have to be even more radical, even more annoying, even more expensive. That is why this law, which pre-orders for example more biomass and thus more emissions, should be adapted. Mr. Chairman. I quote: "The measure fits in a pattern in which the Dutch energy policy shows a systematic lack of stability and predictability. This law thus contributes to the deterioration of the investment climate in the Netherlands." It could have just been my words, but they're the words of RWE. We agree with RWE. Companies don't know what they're up to. That stops the energy transition unnecessarily. Emissions are now only falling because of a calculation trick in Europe. It is much more obvious to make all emissions much more expensive and to remove the tax exemptions for fossil from the tax system. That would also be a few clear signals to business. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u53	Very good. Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Van der Lee of the GroenLinks Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Erkens and Mr Thijssen. They're beautiful, social and green stories. We like to hear them. Although other parties sometimes make the joke that all parties on their left are green-lefts, I can really see the differences between these parties. However, I am looking forward to the fact that a large majority of this Parliament takes climate change extremely seriously, although we still have a great deal of disagreement as to the pace at which we have to act now. I'll tell you more about that in a minute. Others have already rightly stressed its importance: The Netherlands really operates as a soft healer in this matter, making stinking wounds. Our eastern neighbours have already achieved a 42% CO reduction compared to 1990. Our neighbours on the west side have already achieved a 51% CO reduction. That is beyond the goal set by the Climate Act for 2030. Despite three binding judgments, the Netherlands has still not succeeded in achieving the Urgenda target of 25% CO reduction compared to 1990. We are in a really bad position compared to our neighbouring countries. The painful thing is that the interventions that are now needed are getting heavier because we have waited so long. We pay the high price for the fact that, even after the first sentence of almost six years ago, there has been a constant shift to the bottom of the band that the PBL indicated might be the result of the reduction. I also appeal to the Minister about what his predecessors have done, and I believe that he will have to learn very clearly in the debate today about what has happened in recent years. Why didn't we manage to achieve that 25% reduction? It is two years since we dealt with the original coal law. At that time, we had the same discussion. At that time, my party proposed a much faster closure of coal plants per amendment. At that time, we once again advocated the cessation of biomass in coal-fired power stations. That plea, as I say to Mr Kops who is not here today, has been held in this Chamber since 2016. To what extent are current coal plants only kept alive by these biomass subsidies? Coal-fired power stations are struggling, and this is a good thing, because of the rise of renewable energy like wind and sun, which is becoming increasingly cheaper. They are also having a hard time because the CO2 price in the ETS is fortunately rising faster than was long thought. Is it not true that their only earning model is now based on the subsidy they receive from biomass? I am also asking this question in the light of the compensation contained in the current legislative proposal. Is there now a critical view of the margins that are being made and how they are being made? What I do not understand, and that is why I have tabled two amendments, is that production restrictions are only imposed for a few years. We have criticized this before. The Council of State has also expressed this criticism. That has led to one year on top of putting it up to 2024. But why not until 2030? We want CO emissions to be reduced permanently. Every tonne of CO emitted is too much. I will therefore refer this question back to the debate on compensation, because the only reason I can think of why the cabinet does not choose to extend the production restriction until 2030 is because people are afraid that they will have to pay too much now. Why does the Cabinet fear that it has to pay too much? Because it chose to have the compensation fixed in advance. That too is remarkable, because in recent years you can see how volatile the energy market is and how unpredictable price developments are. The trend is that the coal business case is falling very hard. Then it is logical that in the compensation provision you should also look at what the real prices are and not only fill in an ex ante compensation but also ex post. I would like to invite the Minister to comment on this and also to explain to the Chamber why it is not much better to be as close as possible to the real loss of value rather than to enter into a system where the risk of overcompensation is very high. In addition, European consent must also be provided under the State aid rules. In this context, too, it is better to do everything possible to avoid overcompensation. Overcompensation also leads to a deterioration of the position of renewable energy on the market. That is not what we want either, so I hope the Minister can explain that to me, but is also prepared to look at this compensation scheme in another way. I shall come back to that in the second term. What I also find curious is that, for technical reasons, it is said that the production limit cannot be 25% but should be 35%. What exactly is the technical reason why it can't be 25%? What's that even got to do with it? I felt that this was not clarified in the response to the report. I think it's crucial for the Chamber to know what's going on here. I also see a number of other amendments on which I am quite positive, as I have just said. Stopping biomass is probably the fastest route to stop CO emissions from coal plants as soon as possible. In this context, I would like to join with questions that have been raised and I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees this phasing-out path and how he is going to prevent a sudden increase in biomass emissions from these coal plants. How is he going to ensure that we do not keep artificial plants in the air in several ways, by providing subsidies via biomass and by providing compensation on top of that? I would also like to say a few words about the social aspects. I also share the concerns expressed by others. Mr Erkens, of course, had a wonderful story about the way things were going in the mines at the time. It is true that the number of jobs in coal-fired power stations is less than that of the 75 000 at the time. I also think that this situation is different from that in many places in the Netherlands, and that in the very places where coal power stations are located, there are other green possibilities. But all that doesn't happen on its own. I therefore also believe that in this respect the cabinet is bound to ensure that the companies themselves provide proper social arrangements if this is necessary. The Minister does not see any direct employment effects, but that, of course, raises some additional questions, especially in the light of the multiple steps taken in the coal dossier. In addition to this, I have a question about the European Coal and Steel Community that we have seen that Uniper and RWE have both taken legal steps at the beginning of the coal law, which is now being amended in this debate. But that legal battle has not yet been fought at all. It could also be the case that this law will lead to new legal steps. How do we ensure that the interests of the workers are taken into account throughout this process, that we meet the CO reduction targets and that we do so in such a way that taxpayers do not have to spend euros on all fronts? Then there is a subsidy scheme that is not part of the bill, but of course it has been launched for a plant to voluntarily stop all activities, namely for the former ENGIE plant. I am curious when we can expect a decision on this and whether this subsidy is indeed somewhat proportional to the actual loss. The plant has been taken over and hasn't actually turned yet. It turned out to be broken pretty soon after the takeover. I also saw that the subsidy scheme in terms of boiler power was designed so that this plant was actually the only one for which the subsidy scheme was a little attractive. But in order to be able to judge it as a Chamber later on, it is quite crucial to know what the financial basis and the basis are for a final grant to be paid and whether that is in the right proportion. So I don't know if the Minister can say anything about that, or at least indicate when we'll get that information from the Ministry? I think I'll leave it at that for now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u55	Very good. Thank you. Oh, there's another question for you at the bar, Mr. Van der Lee. Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u56	I'm always trying to really understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u57	What Mr Van der Lee says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u58	What Mr Van der Lee says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u59	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u60	Apologies. The whole idea of the climate story is of course based on the idea that sea level is going to rise and that the Netherlands will be underwater. That is why I was wondering how quickly Mr Van der Lee thinks sea level is going to rise. How many meters did you add at the end of the century?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u61	If you think that's the climate story, then we'll talk together soon. There are far more aspects of climate change than a sea level rise in the long term. We already have the problem that inland waterway vessels in the Netherlands cannot sail in the summer because there is not enough water in the rivers. We also already have the problem of harvesting getting into trouble. In the Achterhoek, the region where I come from, there has been extreme drought for four years. That directly affects farmers' incomes. I am referring to the Netherlands, but we are not even the worst affected country in the world. I have been director of a development organization for years and have visited many parts of the world, where desertification is devastating! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! A lot of fertile soil has disappeared before. Those are all aspects of that warming. You're blind to that. I find that incomprehensible and inexplicable. But I think that our paths are completely separate from this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u62	Mr Jansen is blind to it, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u63	I think it is a relevant question, because it is a very large part of the climate story that Holland is going to be underwater. You're all describing natural processes. But this is just measured and the PBL publishes it every year. The average sea level rise is 0.19 millimeters per year. That means 15 centimeters at the end of this century. So what are all these fear stories based on? Why do we spend that 2,000 billion on making the Netherlands gas-free, on all these subsidies for climate, windmills and all that stuff? How can you believe that the world is ending?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u64	I think Mr Jansen is repeating his previous point. It unites a huge issue into a discussion about sea level rise. Then I can say that even the Commissioner responsible for the protection of the Netherlands against rising water in this area sees major problems in the long term. In addition, it is not about the current rise in sea level, but about the trend that is coming. That's also something you don't want to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u65	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u66	That is why I ask: what do you think, at the end of this century...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u67	What does Mr Van der Lee think?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u68	Yes, what does Mr Van der Lee think? How high is the Dutch sea level at the end of this century?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u69	Well, if we get what we want, and many other countries with us really do something about that warming, then we can keep it limited. Then we'll be able to arm ourselves against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u70	Clear. Thank you. We are going to listen to Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u71	Mr. Chairman. As it is used: congratulations for the people who have spoken here for the first time. I must say that I really liked Mr Thijssen's spatial equation. I hope that what we are going to discuss here will not be an air cyclist or far-off policy, but that we will be showing concrete actions, including with this bill. And that is in fact in line with Mr Erkens' plea about Heerlen. For yes, what did we indeed abandon Heerlen; in the beginning of course not, but after that we did. The same applies to local politics. And how far is Heerlen from The Hague? It was only when a policy of human measure came into being locally that the problems were solved. And now Heerlen is back to life. This also shows that the policy of "if things go well with the big companies is going well with the whole society" is completely bankrupt. I therefore hope that Mr Erkens will get his group involved in a genuinely different climate policy. We see, and I will explain this in greater detail, that the billions of grants are available to shareholders, but the real solution for people who want a cleaner environment and better air quality, as well as maintaining jobs, is at the very bottom. That way you will not get a good climate policy. Mr. Chairman. I have, of course, prepared this. You know me, but as a Member of Parliament, you are always involved in discussions on other policy areas at a very large meta-level. You yourself are very much in your own specialty and you get the broad lines from the rest. And now that I'm diving into it, I notice something. For years, ECOFIN ministers have only let their ears hang with the big consumers, i.e. the energy sector, steel, chemistry and aluminum, so that there was enough energy for them. But at the same time nature was shouting: "Hello, where are we? We are sighing under CO emissions." It was known, as Mr Thijssen said. Only fifteen years ago a decision was taken to build four coal-fired power stations, and now the flag is for the closure of coal-fired power stations, when we knew at that time that the construction of those coal-fired power stations was totally bizarre. I mean, the Urgenda case isn't a weird outcome of wrong judges. No, that's claiming your dominant position, part of the balance of interest that we have to make in politics but which just didn't sound here, or sounded but was ignored. This was about the right to life and the right to private and family life and about violations of the European Convention on Human Rights. That Urgenda case was long-lasting, and was lost to the Supreme Court by the Dutch State. The Dutch State, and so we as Parliament, simply did not look at what is all of us: nature, clean air! Only the interests of large sectors, industry and powerful shareholders have been taken into account. That's what we've been listening to. And at the same time there was a debate, you know, about those climate drones from the Amsterdam canal belt. And I have to laugh about that sometimes. It's like doing something about the climate when you're all wearing a warm sweater. And of course we all want to separate our garbage, but that's not gonna save the world. While all of this was reduced to the individual behavior of people, the billions spent on subsidies on coal, biomass and underground CO storage. Innovative sectors that we would thus stimulate. Well, we're seeing it again today: $2 billion to Shell. That billion-dollar company, which uses the environment wherever it is in Nigeria or with us for its own shareholder profits and never accounts for the consequences of its activities, we subsidise again. Mr. Chairman. The contrasts in climate policy are enormous in terms of the SP. You can see that there is a huge amount of money going to big companies for so-called innovation, which we know will disappear into shareholders' pockets. By the way, we can see that the corona support is also happening. And on the other hand, climate policy is becoming an idea that we are there if everyone takes a heat pump or a solar panel. Last night, the VVD leader at Nieuwsuur said that in recent years we have had a policy in which the political debate has actually been smothered by closed agreements, which means that no real balance of interests or contradictions has been dealt with in this Chamber. Well, let's do that then. Because I find it really strange that we also see in this law, a simple law in fact, that hundreds of millions are being thrown into closing the Onyx plant. A shareholder on the other side of the lake, in the United States, is not at all concerned with the interests of our clean air or of the workers who work there or who are in the coal supply. But here we see that a lot of people are dealing with energy poverty. They put their stove down and live in cold and clammy houses, which is bad for their health. Research by the SP shows that 1.4 million households are no longer able to pay their energy bills. Climate policy will have to be done. I really think that's just the way it is. I mean, we don't have two earths. We want clean air. We do not just want to think about the short term and about our generation alone. We need to think about future generations. If we keep doing it this way, it's not gonna happen. Then the support isn't gonna be there either. I would like to ask the Minister what he actually thinks of the privatized energy supply in our country. Does he think that's a success? If so, why? What science does he base that success on? Then today's bill. This will provide further details on the phasing-out of coal plants to be closed by 2030. Amsterdam is already closed. The Onyxcentrale in Rotterdam will be closed voluntarily. I was talking about 238 million in grant applications by an investor who bought it a few years ago for a fourth of 200 million, because then they bought four power plants, including these. The shareholders and the venture investor then paid about 200 million for four plants. And now they're asking for 238 million of our taxpayers' money for one center. When I ask the Minister in my written questions what he actually thinks of that relationship, he says: yes, yes, we are still looking at it. Well, the SP doesn't think it's proportionate, especially since, when I was there at the break-up, I just heard from the staff and so many people aren't, namely 70 on permanent duty and people in the supply, so in that sense it's not comparable to the closure of the mines in Heerlen. The unions are getting shabby. If we ask the minister if he wants to do something, he says, no, there's no role for me. There is an elected chamber motion by my colleague, Mr Beckerman, who talks about the coal fund, as it has been called. When closing a coal power plant on the orders of the government or at the request of the government, you must ensure that people who work there are accompanied from work to work. At least you won't leave them in the cold. As far as we are concerned, it is not just about the people who work there, but also about the supply. It's just not gonna be taken care of. It has my enormous attention, he says in Parliamentary questions. But what kind of warm attention has been given to the implementation of the motion? I didn't see it. Hot attention: we can't eat from that and that doesn't warm the house either. That is why the SP has said for this bill: then we will amend it with the amendment to item No. 17; we're just gonna guarantee it. So I really assume that the VVD supports that. Because, yes, the beautiful words about what we did then, can't go again. That must be materialised above all. There are sounds that the broken Onyxcentrale......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr Van de Lee spoke about this. Mr Van Raan also mentioned it. This means that they will receive subsidies for closing the coal section and that they will then be able to catch subsidies for cutting down trees, which we all know does not generate any CO profits and b that we do not want to do so anymore. The whole House of Representatives I don't know exactly the proportions, but the majority say: cut this out! And yes, they're making that plan. I asked the Minister, and he said: yes, there is a plan and we are looking at it. Just don't! If a power plant closes because of CO profits, because we find that and because we have committed to doing so, then we are not going to introduce new CO mass emissions, regardless of the consequences of the tree hood. That is why I am asking for warm support for the amendment on item No. 16 and I ask the Chamber to accept that. Then I have a question that Van der Lee has actually asked. How is it possible that Balkenende IV had a carbon reduction target of 30% in 2020 compared to 1990 on this subject? That cabinet was a while ago, but I remember. Then I came into this Chamber, and so did you, Mr. Chairman. How is it possible that this bill has a lower ambition for ten years later? What went wrong, I ask the Minister. Mr President, I'm almost through. As far as we are concerned, coal plants are simply closing down. We have already said that this must be done by 2030. Let's just do it quickly now, because we know that energy supply and delivery can be done. It's all been studied. Maybe we should temporarily get something from abroad, but then we made that choice. Then we meet the Urgenda case, let's stop dangling and let's stop running the subsidy engine. Then we have clarity. For this reason, the amendment on item No. 1 of the motion for a resolution will be put to the vote at the next voting time. 12. Mr. Chairman. Finally. We want a fair climate policy, and that means democratizing energy supply. It must be clear to people where the energy is generated. They need to have control over that and not co-determination or all kinds of focus groups. No, that's up to them. The bill must be paid fairly, so the big polluters must also pay. And we need to make sure that everyone who loses their jobs gets another place and doesn't look at climate change without bread on the shelf. Finally. We see now that there are all major mass claims coming. I think that's really daring. You've been on the grant infusion for years and have known for years that the coal plants will be shut down and then it's time and you dare to demand up to 1 billion and 1.4 billion from the Dutch government. I encourage this Minister to say: we are simply not going to do that; even if we go to the highest council or to the European Court, we are not going to do this. This is really your own risk as an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u72	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u73	So either step out of the ECT, the treaty that allows them to have those claims, or go into battle, no matter what!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u74	Very good. Thank you. We are going to listen to Mr Stoffer, who, unlike other speakers, has simply requested a modest five-minute speaking time. I know you're gonna stick to that. Congratulations on that!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u75	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Erkens of the VVD and Mr Thijssen of the Labour Party on their wonderful maiden speeches. I always like to listen to those personal stories; one from the depths of the coal mine and the other to the heights of space. I couldn't avoid the thought that if you combine that, you'll come to the message of a Christian: from the depths of a sinful existence look up to a merciful God. A liberal and a socialist who brings me back to that thought, on such a Tuesday evening, thank you very much for that! Mr. Chairman. Of course, that is not why we are here in this Chamber. We are talking about the Coal Ban Act in electricity production related to CO emission reduction. The first thought that came to my mind when I took it all this way was: how could it have gotten so far that the SGP would call on the cabinet and fellow groups to think a little more European? In general, we are a little reluctant about that. From that gut feeling I go straight to the content, otherwise I go way too far over my speaking time. Mr. Chairman. The SGP questions the need for this ad hoc legislation. The National Emission Authority recently indicated that the coal deployment of Dutch coal plants has been halved over the past year compared to 2019; from 143 to 65 Petajoule, through more rotation hours of gas plants and more sustainable energy production. Emissions from ETS companies appear to be 10 megatons lower in 2020 than in 2019 and are already below the level that the PBL included in its latest exploration for 2025. And then my first question to the Minister is whether my assumption is correct that the target of 25% reduction by 2020, the Urgenda target, is expected to be met. I'd love to answer that. Recently, the CO price in the European Emissions Trading System was €50 per tonne. Clearly higher than the projection of which the PBL went out in the latest exploration. Brussels will come forward in July with proposals to further strengthen the ETS. My estimate is that the price will rise rather than fall. This reflects the judge's ruling that the targets should be taken seriously even after 2020. My question to the Minister is therefore: why not just let the market do its job instead of putting forward ad hoc measures over and over again, and I think it is only a question of whether they are really necessary. And is it true that in the case of less production in Dutch coal plants, it could be that more electricity should be imported from abroad, which I have already heard from colleagues, where dirtyer coal plants can simply go crazy? In short, I would like to see and think beyond our own Dutch borders. Mr. Chairman. The SGP would like to receive further clarification of the level of the loss compensation. How much is it expected to cost if coal plants could run more than the proposed ceiling given market conditions? 100 million or 1 billion? What am I supposed to think about? I would very much like to receive an indication, for example on the basis of the production in recent years, or any other good estimate that could be made. I'd like to make an assessment of what it might cost. This disadvantage compensation is money for unmitted CO, while no electricity is provided. So it costs money to get better CO figures in the short term, but we are not building up that sustainable energy supply of the future at the same time. My question is how meaningful that is. You can only spend every euro once, can't you? Of course, the fact that compensation will actually be paid is also an open end because the European Commission's State aid test is still to come. Let us say that the European Commission is blocking or restricting this disadvantage compensation. What's the minister gonna do? Pulling this law or anything else? I'd like an answer for that scenario as well. Mr. Chairman. All in all, there are many questions about the legislative proposal before us. Yes, we need to work together to make energy supply more sustainable in order to reduce environmental damage and to become less dependent on imports of fossil fuels. But, as SGP, let's also look beyond our noses, stay away from ad hoc measures and invest sustainably in the energy supply of the future. And I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u76	Even less than five minutes, congratulations! But Mr. Van der Lee is going to stretch it for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u77	I do want to stretch that out for a while. I really think of the SGP as a very constitutional party. I understand all the questions put by Mr Stoffer; they are, of course, legitimate. But there's a binding verdict. It is a fact that the verdict was not met in 2020, but it had to be. We also see that all international predictions are that the growth of CO emissions will be strong again in 2021, because we are coming out of the corona crisis. I find it a little difficult to understand that the SGP is setting this aside as an opportunity law and actually gives the cabinet room for failure to follow up on this binding legal ruling. I don't get that from the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u78	I do not think that GroenLinks and the SGP are very close in this respect. This is sometimes the case in other areas, but it is not the case in this area. Every time it's said it's about state of law. I understand there's a judge's ruling. I also think we should do our best. I think we should do our best on the whole route. But we also have a real problem with that political statement. Doing our best is what is different from taking measures now that we say: is that wise now? If you look at it that way, it looks like we could have made it. That is also one of the questions I asked the Minister. If that's the case, then it's just a question of whether you still have to do this. You stop this, if you're not careful, even money in all kinds of disadvantage compensations, and so on. So you're going into some kind of impossible trajectory, while I'm thinking, let's just be sensible, really do our best and look at real alternatives to our current energy production. Fortunately, I think we agree that one day we will get rid of these coal plants, but we do not share the road to that end. I always think it's ad hoc. It's not, in my opinion, sustainable investing in that which you really want to go to. I cannot ask questions the other way around; I understand that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u79	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u80	But I'm actually curious if Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks actually thinks this is sustainable. He also has to see that this is actually just throwing away money. See also the questions I ask about coal plants in Germany, and so on. So, yeah, I think we're just on the other side of the dividing line.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u81	I indicated in my speech that we wanted to intervene much earlier, much more firmly, and that we would have wanted to regulate things in the original coal law, so that we could have achieved the objectives of Urgenda with two fingers in the nose. That didn't happen. But we're in a different reality now. You may give any qualification to the judgment of the highest judge; that is up to you. I do not understand, however, from the tradition of the SGP, which is always pure when it comes to ensuring and respecting our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u82	Yes. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u83	I can't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u84	I get the misunderstanding a little bit on the one hand. If you take a practical look on the other side, I think we might even make it or get close. You're doing your best to comply with a judge's ruling, but it's obviously up to us as a parliament to finally see if you're gonna make it reasonable. I believe that, if we continue in this way, we are not reasonably well engaged in a sustainable investment in our new, sustainable energy supply. When we discuss it again in June, I would like to come back with constructive, good proposals. But I think the judge puts us in some kind of impossibility. As a parliament, we must look seriously at what is good for our people. We should not throw that statement aside altogether, but we should try to resolve it with all reasonableness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u85	I would like to join Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks. Now it is mentioned for the second or perhaps third time that the highest judge has made a political decision. I don't quite understand. It is a matter to which the Dutch State has committed itself, through an international treaty. It doesn't even matter what it's committed to. They were voluntary agreements, without coercion. Those appointments weren't made. The only thing tested was: what promised the Netherlands and made it? No? Then go do it. I do not understand why the SGP calls that a political statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u86	I have just said a little bit about that, but one thing I agree with Mr Van der Lee when he indicated that we should have started earlier. I think so, too. I think the situation is a bit like this. We have to go somewhere, let's say from here to Austria. It'll take ten hours. Actually, we wanted to be there by 10:00 tonight. If you leave now, you just won't make it. So let's just say in concrete terms that we started too late. If you want to meet impossible things... Urgenda could eventually go to court again if we don't make it. I'm not telling you we shouldn't do our best. Sure, I think we should do our very best. We can also invest in a very sustainable energy supply and in a good climate, but in a reasonable time. You are now coming into some kind of unreasonableness, where we are going to do things that are not sensible for a truly sustainable energy supply. I'm just not into this kind of ad hoc thing. The SGP is indeed quite a bit stuck between the rule of law on the one hand and the practicality on the other. In that respect, I am really on the line that we should also remain practical.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u87	Mr Van Raan, concluding. Short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u88	Yeah, rounding it up. I regret that Mr Stoffer does not answer the question. Again, the deal has not been fulfilled. That has been checked by the judge, as the judge can simply check all his own voluntary commitments and see whether they are being complied with or not. There's nothing political about that at all. I would appreciate it if Mr Stoffer did not want to label that judge's ruling as political. I do agree with him, along with ex-Minister Wiebes, for example, that we started too late and should have done more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u89	I'm not the only one talking about a judge's political verdict. That is also what legal scholars do who are far beyond me in law. I'm just a simple engineer, with a single side pocket in the legal sphere. Also prominent professors in the field of state law and the like indicate: this is on the brink of a political verdict or it goes over it. So I'm definitely not alone in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u90	In itself, I understand that. That is how we, as CDA, looked at it when the verdict was made. But what do you do when the verdict is there? Then you'd have to find a way to change it, so you'd really have to fly it into the state of the law. It's possible. I have not yet seen an initiative by the SGP for this, but perhaps that will happen. The verdict is there. If there are statements in other cases, we expect our citizens and businesses to comply with them. But now the colleague of the SGP states here in the Lower House that that is not really necessary. You'll actually only accept a verdict if you like it. Should I understand the SGP's theorem in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u91	No. If that's how Mrs Mulder understood it, I don't think we heard each other right. I really say that we can and can do our best if there is such a statement, but if you do not make it in all reasonableness, then at some point you also have to make a decision as a parliament. I make that assessment, and I say, "Do it reasonablely." Besides, I'm looking very closely at where you're going later. I really think it's feasible to achieve your goals by 2050. But we're stuck, now and in 2030, with the Climate Act. I wonder: is that wise now, are we going to make it? Former Minister Wiebes always said in the past: you are going two steps forward and one backwards. That's the situation in this very complex field, I think. I'm not saying we're just gonna put it right next to us. No, it's good to do our best, but in this case, is this law necessary? Anyway, we'll get an answer to that later. I think we've probably already achieved the goal without this law. I would also like to make it very clear that there will be European legislation in the near future, which, I think, will make it much easier for us to resolve it in the European playing field. That's what I started my contribution with. I didn't say anything. Let's just put it right next to us. But are we gonna make it exactly? I don't think so. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u92	Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u93	I hear the SGP colleague say: the judge puts us in an impossible position; we cannot achieve it reasonably, so we should not do it. But if everyone in the Netherlands is going to think that way, then it's not going well somewhere at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u94	That is true, but even if the judge makes a decision in the area of spatial planning or I know what, then the question is always: can you make it reasonable or not? But one of my questions, even more so, was my first question to the Minister whether it is right that we should have just achieved that target by 2020. In other words, I'm not the one who says, "We don't have to make it, don't do anything, it's bullshit." No, definitely not. But it has to be reasonable, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u95	Very good. We're going to see Mrs. Leijten. Mrs. Mulder, I'd like to hurry up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u96	There are colleagues who have been interrupted before and also a bit longer in a row, so I would find it very helpful if...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u97	Well, very short and pointy then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SGP Group actually says the following. "We do want to achieve that goal in 2050. We'll commit to that, and we'll take steps to do that. But this one measure is not for us, for it does not suit us."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u99	This is about a law; not about a measure, but about a law. Of course there are measures underneath, but we do not think it is wise to do so in this way. I've explained it several times, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u100	Mrs Leijten has a completely new perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u101	Well, I'm trying to get it sharp, just because I know that the SGP is always very purely arguing and debating. Is it an unnecessary law because you believe that we have already passed it, but do you accept the ruling of the Supreme Court that we must abide by certain objectives? Or do you think: what the Supreme Court has said is political and that is why we do not need this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u102	Not that last one. It's the Supreme Court's job to do our best. But if we look at this change, we do not think it is wise to do it this way at the moment. The question is whether it is necessary at all. Especially with the prices you see now and with what is being put down by the coal power stations at all, it is only a question of whether that law is necessary. But we really say: if we look now at the ETS that is coming, which is still going to be paid, with the prices that are on it, I think I have just put it all in my contribution. So we think that this law, even in view of what is happening, is actually a law that isn't going to do much anymore, which may even be unnecessary. But I am not saying that it is a political statement and we can ignore it. As a result of a previous interruption, I have already indicated that I am certainly not the only one. There are scholars of law who are much better at this than I am, who also say that this statement is really up or, as some say, over the edge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u103	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u104	That last sentence is such a pity, because I actually wanted to say that Mr Stoffer might have been a bit political in his statements by saying that the ruling of the Supreme Court is political. Because if we start like this, then of course we can also say about every construction project that is being shut down, which cannot continue because there is too high CO emissions, we are building on. While we know that we do not, because that has to do with public health. I would find it so unwise of the SGP if they were on that line. You can say: this is unnecessary, because we think it can be done in another way. Then I'll follow Mr Stoffer. Then maybe I don't agree with him. But when he says: that ruling of the Supreme Court, up to the Supreme Court, made all legal remedies, that's politics. I think he'll play with fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u105	When I look at this whole climate issue, I think it is made politically, legally and so on. I'm an engineer. I always say, if you want to solve this, you need first of all a good technique, and a piece of support in society. And I'm sure that if we go over that band, we'll go much faster than we'll discuss it politically and legally every time. I understand that happens, even in a democracy. But I insist that this judge's ruling is definitely on the verge. At least it doesn't help to come to a real solution right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u106	Short, short, short!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u107	I think I can go a long way with that. This is supposed to be a political debate, with political considerations. And as I said in my speech, this has been absent, because we have only been following the interests of large companies and we have not really allowed the interests of nature and the future to be taken into account in the debate. And then people who do not feel represented in this Chamber are free to choose the legal path. That's our rule of law. I find it really unwise for a serious political party like the Stately Reformed Party to say: but yes, then you also go that legitimate way and then you win it all the way to the Supreme Court, and then it's a political verdict. I think you're really getting on very, very slippery ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u108	A short reaction and then you can finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u109	I do not think Mrs Leijten and I can find each other in that, because I am sticking to what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u110	You're continuing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u111	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u112	Mr. Stoffer, I understand you're ready? Oh, I see Mr Grinwis. We can continue to interrupt for a long time, but I note that we have four more speakers to talk about before dinner break. I was hoping to suspend before 8:00 for dinner break, but it's gonna be later and later. Mr. Grinwis, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u113	Thank you, Mr President. In my opinion, in the SGP, physicality is bad and patience is a virtue. But isn't Mr Stoffer too fat in his speech? I understand his criticism of that production restriction. He points to the ETS price rising every day, which came to €52 yesterday. But the risk is that such an ETS price could fall again. And then one of these coal power stations can get courage and stay open. Does Mr Stoffer agree with me, from the point of view of patience and decisiveness, that such a price should perhaps be fixed at a certain level, that you should at least put a minimum on the market and propose a minimum price of €40 or €50, so that at least there is clarity and stability and those coal power stations never open again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u114	I think this is a nice question from Mr Grinwis. If we do that in a European context, I can very well imagine that we would do so. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u115	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u116	Here Mr Stoffer very quickly points to Europe. That is a remarkable side issue and actually the profit of this debate, because he does not do that very often. In the Netherlands, we must comply with that judgment. Mr Stoffer refers to the price as the mechanism to ensure that that judgment can be complied with. Then why not put an extra lock on the door and set a minimum in the law? There has been a legislative proposal here for two years to put in place a minimum price. If you put the price at €40, €50, then we have a lock on the door and let the market continue its work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u117	No. I made a very conscious reference to Europe at the beginning. I've done that before, because I don't think you can solve this within the borders of the Netherlands. You have to do this to each other. I am going to take too much of your time, of course, Mr President; that does not make you happy. There are dirty, dirty coal plants just across the border with Germany, which continue to run for much longer than the plants here. I say let's solve that first. Take that wider. You don't like the climate and you don't do people any good with it if we keep looking within the limited limits of the Netherlands. This is without prejudice to the fact that I am in favour of good solutions, which we will be able to come up with at the beginning of June when we have the Climate and Energy debate, but I am not going to stick to this law. I want to record it at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u118	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Agnes Mulder from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u119	Mr President, thank you. First of all, of course, congratulations to colleagues Thijssen and Erkens. I found the very nice, personal stories. That brings you here today in the end, and I am pleased. Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, stewardship is very important core value. Pretty much translated means that we want to take good care of our Earth. At the same time, stewardship also means sound finances for us, and with it also means that policies are made that are feasible and affordable, so that everyone can experience it. That is what we are doing, perhaps quite selfishly, for ourselves here, as we are here today, for a clean and healthy society, and also for the generations that come after us. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. We therefore want the Netherlands to make a solid contribution to achieving the goal we agreed on worldwide in Paris, namely to reduce CO. With the temporary production limitation for coal plants, which is set out in this legislative amendment, we are taking a major step towards achieving the climate agreements we have made with each other. The agreements we have made seem to be a great challenge in practice. Colleagues have already mentioned this today. It's not easy. The fact that an Urgendavonnis had to come is a confirmation of that. This week, the parties behind the Urgendavonnis have indicated that they do not feel that things are moving fast enough. Does the Minister recognise this criticism and, if so, what is he going to do about it? Today's bill shows that we take this proposal and the verdict seriously here in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. With the temporary production limitation for coal plants, proposed by this amendment, we are taking a major step towards reaching the agreements. As a CDA, we have always pointed out that there are possible security of supply risks and that they need to be properly addressed. We are confident that with this temporary production restriction and the fact that power plants remain available for peak demand, the security of supply of electricity is guaranteed. Of course we all want that at home, because we want to be able to charge our phones, we want to be able to use a fridge and everything we want at home. I just want to ask the Minister how much bandwidth there is in terms of security of supply, because we hear different numbers: 35, 25. How much rack is in there? What percentage of production restrictions would seriously jeopardise the security of supply? Can the Minister answer that? The Minister states that the production restriction is likely to be largely absorbed by Dutch gas plants. But some of the electricity may also come from abroad. Several colleagues have already said so. It is therefore possible that the CO effects at European level will not be beneficial. Is that right? Can the Minister answer that? How much electricity would come from abroad? What are the odds? That, of course, makes it a bit of a paper exercise; that is the feeling that we all have here in this Chamber. That brings me to the fact that I liked the SGP contribution that it is very sensible to tackle climate policy issues at European level. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the downside compensation. Operators can claim damages as a result of this measure which is not on their behalf. I read that an independent consultant will be involved in the loss compensation, in its determination. However, it is difficult that the level of this disadvantage compensation is not yet known. The method used to calculate it is not yet clear either. Can the Minister give us some more information on this? What order of magnitude will it be about, for example? When should the level and methodology for calculating the disadvantage compensation be clear? To what extent does the rising European ETS price, which today hits the €52, also have to do with this? Can the Minister address these aspects? The Minister states that operators can appeal if they do not agree with the level of compensation or the methodology. Can the Minister indicate whether there is a risk that this production restriction will lead to arbitration cases at the Energy Charter Treaty? Does the Minister share the view that this treaty is currently being abused by parties in arbitration cases against the Dutch government, whereas the treaty was originally intended to promote the integration of energy markets in Western and Eastern Europe? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has indicated that it does not wish to withdraw from the treaty because Dutch investors abroad will lose minimum legal protection under this treaty. Can the Minister indicate how many Dutch companies are involved and how they are currently using the Convention and its protection? Does he have any examples of that? We would like to have a better sense of order about what the treaty is about. The cabinet has previously indicated its commitment to modernising the ECT Convention, as I call it abbreviated. What has become of that so far? The CDA considers it important to ensure that the staff of the coal-fired power stations affected by this measure are properly dealt with. A lot of colleagues share that. No doubt there will be motions for resolutions on this matter. Amendments have been tabled. We read that, according to this Minister, there will be little or no impact on employment. In itself, that's good to hear. But the Minister also says that, if there are consequences for employees, the employer is primarily responsible for this. I think that is a little thin, just like the colleagues in this Chamber. Can the Minister promise that, if there are any unexpected adverse effects on employment, he will make an active effort to reduce and/or mitigate these effects as much as possible? Mr. Chairman. The coal fund passed by. It might be good if the Minister gives an update on this and tells us what is going on with it now. Mr. Chairman. Another possible consequence of this measure is that electricity prices may increase, for example if demand for electricity or gas increases. The Minister says that this situation is not currently taking place, because the gas price is quite low. But, of course, we don't know how long that will last. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how he intends to ensure that the costs for our citizens do not increase disproportionately if this situation changes in the years to come. Can he say anything about that? Mr President, I am about to finish. I should like to hear from the Minister what the latest state of play is on the call for proposals for the voluntary closure of a coal power station. Many colleagues have already mentioned this. When does the Minister expect to complete the assessment of the proposal received? And in what time does he expect clarity about approval by the European Commission? Can the Minister also explain why this production restriction remains necessary, even if the voluntary closure of a plant would continue? Maybe we still need to look at how we're gonna figure that out. Mr President, in conclusion. I started our contribution with our core values stewardship and future generations. Today they stood here, in the pouring rain and a thunderstorm, with us in The Hague on the sidewalk. We received this call from them: make us resilient to climate change. What does the Minister want to say to them today? The CDA asks the Minister to look at their proposals together with the Minister of Education, to discuss them with them and to report back to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. That you dream your future and that that begins in your youth, we heard today from two colleagues: Thijssen and Erkens. Let's not stop dreaming that we can really pass this world on. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u120	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u121	As is often the case, Mrs Mulder knows how to ask a lot of questions, perhaps most of the members who participate. But I do have a question for the CDA. This is also motivated by the fact that the CDA has now declared additional steps to achieve the Urgenda goal controversial. So if we want to achieve the goal, it has to be within the instruments that have already been devised. This is now the subject of a legislative proposal. Can I conclude from the questions you are asking about the production restriction itself that the CDA could also agree to a production restriction of up to 25%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u122	We want to be very clear about the security of supply, which is crucial for us. At the moment when it is not possible at 25%, then it is not possible. I don't know exactly where the percentage is. That question is being questioned. I can see those questions, too. I would like to make that clear today from the Minister in this legal process. I'm assuming the 35 and I'm assuming it's true. But imagine that circumstances have given rise to different insights. Then it might be useful for the Minister who shares it with the Chamber today so that we can draw our conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u123	Very well, thank you. We are going to listen to Mr Grinwis from the Christian Union Group. I note that we still have three speakers to speak in this period of 10 minutes each. So in half an hour I hope to suspend for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u124	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, a warm congratulation to my colleagues Erkens and Thijssen for their involved and passionate maiden speeches. That's a good look from the mining area and from space. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. The sooner coal flow is out of the world, the better, for the planet, air quality and public health. In view of the judgment of several years ago in the case of Urgenda, I understand, of course, that there is a legal need to ensure that greenhouse gas emissions are reduced quickly enough. Nevertheless, this bill raises questions for me. Not that I am opposed to temporary production restrictions in the coal plants, but what exactly is the added value of this legislative amendment that we are discussing with each other? If we look outside, we can see that the ETS price for CO has now risen to €52 per tonne. It's been coming by a few times. That is seven times as much as the €7.50 when the current cabinet, now outgoing, arrived at the end of October 2017. The electricity price also shows a decreasing trend. Not a coal farmer who, at these prices, is considering turning on his plant. That is exactly what we want to do with each other: let the price and the market do their job, provided that the market works well. Fortunately, the CO market is working better and better, at least on our continent. I have to admit that for years I had a hard head in the operation of the emissions trading system: too many allowances, too cheap, too many free allowances too. But step by step, we're moving in the right direction. We know, for example, that at prices between €30 and €40 per tonne of CO coal plants are switched off, while gas plants can continue to run without problems, and even more so, the business cases for renewable energy and energy savings are improved by the day. This pricing philosophy was for a reason the starting point of the coalition agreement in 2017. For example, the trajectory of the minimum price, which was, unfortunately, adjusted downwards later, was chosen in such a way that coal power stations would, as it were, shut down itself at some point. Things have turned out differently. There was a law banning coal. Today we are discussing a temporary change to that. Still, I have a question. Why does the Minister no longer act in the spirit of this philosophy from the coalition agreement of that time? So why did he not actually choose to propose a firm minimum price, so that coal plants are not only out now, but never going back on in the first place? With an ETS price of €52, the minimum price of €40 or perhaps €50 does not pose any risk to the security of supply? That was the Minister's argument in the explanatory statement, not to opt for the minimum price mechanism. However, given the rapid rise in the ETS price, I would like to take another look at this. For the sake of certainty, I tabled an amendment with my colleague Mr Boucke in order to ensure at least a mid-term review of this legislative amendment, particularly in order to continue to assess the legislative proposal on its merits after it enters into force. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is niet dat het voorstel van de minister irrationeel is, geenszins.]] However, the question is why he proposes to work with rather complicated and legally vulnerable standards in this law, while market power and price are easier and certainly so effective. In fact, the laws of market and price are more sacred to the great old fossil companies than the laws of our country. The Minister knows that, doesn't he? But okay, he's opting for a temporary production restriction to comply with the court ruling. Is that really legally sufficient or should the production restriction be sharper and/or longer? Some amendments have been tabled. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to that in a moment. Urgenda announces new legal action if the cabinet does not act quickly. What is the Minister's response to this? Does the cabinet keep its promise to comply with the ruling and, if so, when can we look forward to the Minister's new package of measures? After all, the pace of energy transition needs to be raised. Too many projects to make heat supply more sustainable have so far been excluded from the SDE grant rounds, the latter, while the uneconomic summit is getting smaller and smaller. After all, the increasing CO price makes the energy transition cheaper for Dutch taxpayers every day. With the current SDE-systematiek, we are still not responding sufficiently, with increasing reserves in the SDE. What opportunities does the Minister for Open Programming see in the SDE, a method that his colleagues at Infrastructure and Water State have had for years to prevent under-exhaustment or back-up? The climate crisis is big enough to do more than we are doing now. Mr. Chairman. The addition of woody biomass is not a sensible alternative to coal combustion in the light of our fight against climate change. In the short term, this form of biomass creates an additional amount of COin in the atmosphere, at a time when we must do everything we can to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. However, the Eemshaven plant has already regulated or implemented all the formalities to be able to co-incinerate more biomass: not 15%, but 30%. Does the Minister see any possibility of preventing this amendment of the law from adding more woody biomass? Indeed, the counterpart of an increasing ETS price is also that biomass is gradually becoming profitable without subsidies. How does that relate to the path to be taken by the Minister? Can earlier closure of a co-fired coal plant lead to additional use of subsidised biomass in the remaining coal plants or is that legally impossible? Surely this change in the law is not going to lead to more subsidy money going to the biomass surplus in coal plants? Colleagues have already asked about it. Finally, Mr President. I'm gonna think about the downside compensation. The Minister states in the note following the report that the actual disadvantage suffered is calculated on the basis of recent forward prices, reflecting the gross margin and therefore the expected production for the period 2021-2024. Given current CO prices, the revenue lost will be virtually nil, I think. Is that what the Minister thinks? In that light, what exactly is the formula he is going to use for this disadvantage compensation? Mr Mulder also asked about it. That is not clear at the moment. To what extent can this change in the law to reduce coal flow actually be regarded as unforeseen, since climate policy in the construction and opening of the three newest coal power stations was indeed already the subject of scientific, social and political discussions? As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the procedure of disadvantage compensation must be as transparent and democratic as possible. That is why I have tabled an amendment to establish a procedure for the further compensation decision, so that we do not vote in the blind today or next week in relation to this disadvantage compensation. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u125	Thank you. Let us now listen to Mr Eppink of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u126	Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the floor. I shall be brief so that my former party colleague, Mr Jansen, has sufficient time for his maiden speech. So I deleted a great deal in my speech. As Bomans once said, writing is deletion. Sir... I had Madam President standing here, by the way, but it's Mr. Chairman. Climate policy is increasingly producing a kind of planned economy without precedent. Plan models determine the policy, but how reliable are these models? In his recent book A new social contract, colleague Omtzigt points out the flaws of models. He quotes a statistician who says, "All models are wrong, but some are useful." Models sometimes tend to produce laws of Medes and Persians, such as the Climate Law and the Coal Ban Act. There are always unknown factors in the policies and things you don't know. The explanatory statement also points to the evolution of the energy and climate transition in other European countries, which is often very different, as factors that we do not yet know well. Moreover, the impact of Dutch policy on the global climate is very small. Now, how's our energy transition going? I'd say "wrong." As the climate law becomes felt by citizens, society is starting to stir. There will be resistance to windmills and other things. The "loose from the gas," one of the key elements of the Climate Act, is barely functioning. It's too hard, it's too expensive, it's not popular with people. But you don't find that in models that easily. Is the Minister still holding on to "loose from the gas"? Only when a windmill with the size of the Eiffel Tower is in front of you, will the resistance begin. That's what we see everywhere now, even among greens. Biomass plants, until recently an absolute must from the left, are in reality dirty and polluting. Everyone has understood that now. They're disastrous for the woods and real tree killers. So that option is not very green, but blacker than coal. 600 smaller biomass plants are being built up over time. Is the Minister prepared to change course on biomass? Nuclear energy is a total taboo among ecologists. The German Greens, for example, came out of their opposition to nuclear power plants. That is why they are now being demolished in Germany. It's part of their birth certificate. When I hear that we may have to import energy to the Netherlands from abroad, I can already tell you where it comes from: it comes from France. And that's atomic current. The energy transition therefore consists mainly of disabling energy sources or not allowing certain new ones. There is too much bet and hope for wind and sun. But where is this energy supposed to come from? What's the energy mix gonna look like? Is the Minister prepared to adjust the energy mix? Then abroad. Germany is switching to gas, because there is no other way to deal with the failures of the Energy Week. The dismantling of nuclear power plants led to an increase in and the continuation of coal-fired power stations. If you look at the Rhine, you will see all Dutch ships sailing to Germany full of coal. That's the world upside down. The gas will thus be the salvation for Germany, while in the Netherlands this is considered to be the evil. Belgium has six nuclear power plants, but they are old and worn out. What's the alternative? Gas. France continues to put all the cards on nuclear power. Is the Minister prepared to learn from these experiences from abroad? Meanwhile, the rest of the world continues to stomp new coal power stations from the ground. Take China, for example. Despite President Xi's fine words about climate change, China is building new coal power stations on a massive scale. We are shutting down modern coal power stations. China is building, as planned, until 2030. As far as coal is concerned, there is another illustration in Eastern Europe: the largest coal power station in Europe in the Polish Belchatow is currently expanding. He alone emits 80% of the total emissions of all Dutch energy companies. My question is therefore: do you also consider the feasibility of these laws? Thorbecke once made laws that were enforceable, such as the Municipal Law, the Province Law and so on. They still exist. We make laws and within a year we are already in difficulties and we have to ask ourselves whether this law is feasible. There must therefore also be some sort of Ordnungspolitik in legislation to ensure that it can stand the test of time. In short, to close, JA21 is very critical of the energy and climate policy of this cabinet. We have great concerns about feasibility. But let me make a reasonable interim proposal, pragmatically, a compromise. Extend the transition period from the three remaining power stations from 2030 to 2040. Is the Minister prepared to do so? I call on the Cabinet and the Chamber to review the current climate policy. Take note of the many uncertainties you yourself have outlined, as stated in the explanatory statement: the uncertainties in the energy markets. Design a realistic energy mix without taboos and avoid strangling the Dutch economy and the Dutch citizen with a law of Meden and Persians. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u127	Thank you. Then the floor is for one of the three party pigs of this evening. That is Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy Group. He's gonna make his maiden speech, too. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I find the law before me today very bizarre. Together with D66 and GroenLinks, VVD and CDA want to close the Dutch coal plants. The law before us today must therefore immediately reduce capacity by 65%. Given that it is indeed my first contribution, I also wanted to say something personal. I remember when I was a kid, I used to stay with my grandmother and grandmother. Opposite the flat where he lived, the IJsselcentrale van Zwolle stood. That was once a coal power plant and later a gas power plant. I knew that's where power was being made. That was a very magical thing. That building fell out at night against the dark background and then only some of those lights lit up at some of those windows, because people were always busy making power because we always need power. I also remember that every once in a while one of those chimneys was knocked down. I don't know how many chimneys there were and the plant's capacity was reduced. Eventually, that whole plant was shut down. I never understood that. Perhaps there has been a specific reason for that particular power station to shut it down, all of which could well be done, but now we are on the verge of closing down all the remaining coal plants. I don't get this. Why would we do this? Why risk our energy security? Why would we risk our affordable power? Why are we doing this to ourselves? I don't understand. The Netherlands is about to sacrifice the last 4 gigawatts of coal. Meanwhile, last year China added 30 gigawatts of coal. The Netherlands throws 4 gigawatts away and China builds 30 gigawatts. It is completely incomprehensible why we are doing this. How does the Minister view this? How does the Minister look at us turning in on cheap electricity and choosing expensive alternatives that normal people are going to have to pay for, while China is almost eightfold in one year and has even planned for the coming years to add 270 gigawatt to coal flow? China understands, unlike the climate fanatics here in the Chamber, that a country needs electricity and that it needs to be affordable. Here the energy bill is increased every year. Almost half of the energy bill is now taxation: climate taxes, gas taxes and electricity taxes. If Dutch people pay a lot, that's what they think here, then the world will be saved. Modern indulgences for the climate cardinals in the diocese of The Hague. The people who believe that, therefore, believe that a kind of flood will be saved if we pay enough and if we only spend that 1,000 billion for at least, perhaps, possibly, in the most optimistic scenario 0.00007 less warming according to their own calculations. It is completely incomprehensible what is happening, because the rest of the world is not participating. I just mentioned China. The Netherlands has the cleanest, most modern coal power plants in the world. Some of them just opened. Instead of using that cheap, clean power, VVD, CDA, D66, GroenLinks and all those others prefer to burn trees in converted coal plants, because that's green. Coal plants must make way for biomass plants. They emit 15% more CO per joule energy; but that's clean CO, that's green CO. This law actually achieves the opposite of the whole purpose of the Climate Agreement. CO emissions in the Netherlands are not reduced as a result of the closure of coal plants, but rising. But according to the cartel's accounting tricks, the CO released by burning primordial forests is CO2-neutral. In their Excelsheet it says "sustainable," so it is sustainable. Not only does biomass emit more CO than coal, it also emits more nitrogen, more sulphur dioxide and more particulate matter. Things that are really bad for public health, which have also been warned by enough institutions, unlike the alleged world disaster, which nobody sees happening, except in the documentary of fanatics. In fact, small decentralised biomass plants are being built in more and more places. These things are so inefficient that they don't generate enough power to cover the cost of filters. That is why the choice is made to inflate unfiltered nitrogen and sulphur dioxide into the air. That's really drunk. Half of Dutch renewable energy now consists of biomass. American and Canadian primordial forests are harvested on a massive scale to be thrown into a stove for the green stream of hip D66'ers and GroenLinksers. The tree hood also continues in the Netherlands. Meanwhile, the Netherlands deforests faster in numbers of square kilometres per year than the Amazon. Where's all the wood? Is that all going into those power stations? I ask the Minister why we are closing down the cleanest coal plants in the world to burn forests in biomass plants and build the whole North Sea with windmills. I'll never understand this. I hope you have an answer to this. Coal plants are cleaner, more nature-friendly and much cheaper. Let's stop with this pointless, expensive policy. Let's stop this madness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u129	Thank you. That was a story full of passion and combat. We'd love to see that. You are also using up half your speaking time, so the Presidents who will be sitting here in the coming years will be pleased with you. If you come forward, it is my honor and pleasure to be the first to congratulate you. There are others from your group and from this house who will do the same. By the way, I'm suspending until 8:45 p.m. before dinner, and then we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u130	The Minister has the floor. I understand he's got cubes. Ten more. I'd like to hear from the Minister who they are. It would be nice if people would sit down and also a little silence. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u131	Mr President, thank you. A lot of questions were asked in the first term. I'm gonna try to answer them all here. If I miss one more, I'm sure we'll get back to that in the second term. For the overview I did indeed try to squeeze it in no less than ten cubes. In a few moments, I'll have a few introductory words. I am referring to the question of why we do not use 25% instead of 35%. Several members have asked for it. Then I have a block about the disadvantage compensation, a block about the comments to push the bill forward to 2024 and a block about a social plan and everything related to employment, which I think the Chamber rightly called for attention to. Then I have a few more points on the bill. That's number six. Then I thought it would be good to go around that, although we are of course dealing with the legislative proposal here, and not everything that is to come in the future, to say a few things about Urgenda, the Energy Charter and biomass. And then I end up with a couple of loose ends that were left. Then I hope to be very complete, and then let's see...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u132	...if we're still alive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u133	...if we're still alive, and how fast we get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u134	I've written along and I'll come up to eight cubes. Anyway, we're not gonna have a hard time with that. Mr Van Raan says nine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u135	But did you also count the introduction? I've got ten here anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u136	Well, whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u137	I think we'll figure it out, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u138	Mrs Leijten supports me, so it must be true. I suggest you just get started and call yourself when a block is finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u139	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u140	That's when we're gonna interrupt, as far as we want to, you know. If you say "I want to go home a little in time," we don't do that. That's okay, too. I'm just whispering to you that you're not obliged to interrupt. Therefore, if the Minister wishes to call that out at the end of each block, then I wish him every success in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u141	Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would also like to congratulate the three Members who made their maiden speech. I think you were quite right to congratulate me on that. That's always a special moment. I can also imagine that it's nice to do that right away with a bill that's really about something. By the way, I used to have the same dream of becoming an astronaut, but I haven't even managed to study space science yet. I'm just a simple alpha, but I recognize that dream. So you gave me permission to go into space with a rocket again... well, who knows in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u142	We will soon set up a discussion group for crippled astronauts in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u143	I think that's a good thing, yes, to deal with that childhood trauma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u144	Yeah, watching that movie Apollo 11 and all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u145	Yeah, great, yeah. Mr. Chairman. In my introduction, I wanted to say a few things about the need for this bill, and about why we are doing this again. You all know the Urgenda statement, which we, as government, of course, have to adhere to. There we have a whole package of measures... Or 'we', it has, of course, been the work of my predecessor Eric Wiebes; honour who deserves credit. So we have taken a large package of measures to comply with that ruling, of which this is an extremely important part. I am also grateful to the Chamber because I had asked it to deal with this bill soon. The sooner it can go in, the greater the effect is and the greater the chance that we will actually achieve those goals. For I also saw that there have been wide-ranging discussions in the Chamber about the usefulness and need of climate policy in general. Of course, the cabinet is in favour of this, but no matter how you look at it, we do have a court ruling, which we must relate to anyway. A number of Members, including Mr Stoffer and the speaker of the Christian Union, say: we are seeing a number of developments now like a higher CO price, and you may not be achieving your goals at all this year, so can't you achieve the same goal without this bill? That's how I translate it. The point is a little bit that we do not want that uncertainty. Because it is true that there are now certain developments that may be moving in the right direction, but of course you never know how it will develop in the coming years. Since we want to be sure that we are going to comply with the verdict, we have therefore opted for this legislation. Among other things, Mrs Mulder from the CDA asked whether this would actually be necessary if a voluntary closure were to continue. Yes. If you look at the totality of the task, we still need to impose this limitation. Mr. Chairman. That was briefly the main reason for the bill we are discussing here, which I wanted to give to the Chamber in my introductory remarks. Let me now turn to the 25% and 35%. Among other things, Mr Van der Lee asked about this. I also understand that those questions are coming, because it's just quite a complicated story. It might also be a good thing to say that it is really not unwilling at my ministry not to go to the 25%. The security of supply would not be a decisive argument either, as it would still be at 25%. But we have the fact that if we make legislation in the Netherlands, it must be the same for everything and everyone who is here today. Mr Van der Lee will agree with me. That is an important principle. It's quite a technical story, so I'm going to do my best to explain it again, but otherwise I'd love to ask our ministry again for a letter, for the vote, in which we explain it as easily as possible. It has to do with the technology of one of those plants, which also burns residual products from the surrounding industry. These are animal starch and heavy waste. I'm not a coal power plant designer, so I hope you don't mind me saying that I can't explain it all the way to the decimal point, but if you want to keep doing that, it's just in the technology of that plant that it's going to keep running at 35%, because otherwise that thing won't get warm enough and you can't burn everything you want to get rid of. There are simply no alternatives to this in the short term, i.e. for the duration of this bill. And you can't make legislation in the Netherlands that's different from the others. I hope I managed to shed a little light on the case. Once again, it is not an unwillingness on the part of the cabinet. We have really looked at this very extensively and we have to come to the conclusion that it is simply not technically possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u146	Actually, I'd like to do the interruptions at the end of a block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u147	This was the story. That's why there are so many blocks, because they are sometimes quite short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u148	If you call every paragraph a block, it's gonna be something. Then Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u149	I have two questions about this. Is it the case that exactly 35% is required, because there are contracts for the incineration of substances other than coal or woody biomass in those plants? The range of 25% to 35% has been discussed for some time now. Then I think it's a bit typical that it's about 35% instead of 25%. I would therefore like to know whether that is exactly the case. The other question is: does the law as it stands today, or the AMvB on disadvantage compensation, still allow the other plant to encourage a voluntary reduction to 25%? Perhaps this can be done within a certain amount of compensation, but is that room in what the legislation is like now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u150	Let's get to the first one. You should not ask me over as not a technical designer of coal-fired power stations, but we have studied this very extensively and with genuine intentions. Then you see that in a year's time this plant must be able to run on coal on average 35% in order to be able to burn the rest of the products safely. Of course, we also looked at whether you could do that somewhere else. All our analyses indicate that this is simply not going to work. I suggest that I come back to the question of whether it can be done voluntarily. I believe that you also have an amendment or motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u151	I have indeed tabled an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u152	Do you mind if I come back to it when I deal with the amendments? I've been talking about security of supply. That was not the reason not to do that 25%. It's really a purely technical reason. We would have wanted more, but we just couldn't. Sometimes that's what you run into in life. That's about 25% and 35%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u153	If you want to interrupt, you really should stand by the microphone, Mr. Thijssen. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u154	I thought I'd wait my turn. I thank the Minister for these answers. I'm wondering something else I didn't hear in the introduction. Is that 35% enough to make it to Urgendavonnis, or should we do more? Or is that something that comes back in the seventh block, if you're going to say more about Urgenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u155	Yeah, I'll come back later on to the question: how to proceed? That 35% is the maximum we can do at the power stations. That's how I understand your question. You say, okay, so you say, but is that how we're gonna get all the targets? If you will allow me, I will come back to that later when I talk about Urgenda and the question: how to proceed? Mr. Chairman. In that case, a lot of questions have been asked about the disadvantage compensation. Above all, we do not want too much money to be spent on this. We are simply obliged to give a disadvantage compensation. You're legally violating someone's property. Then you have to compensate for that, but of course we want to keep it as low as possible, because it is tax money, as many of you have rightly pointed out. How do we guarantee that? On the one hand, we have asked independent experts to make the most realistic assessment possible. I think there is also another important guarantee, namely that you will have to submit this to the European Commission in order to ask whether it is not illegal state aid if the amount is too high. I can assure you that the European Commission is right to be extremely strict on such matters. So I really do have faith in that. In my economic portfolio, I have a lot to do with routes in which we have to ask for Europe's consent. You can't just do that, I can tell you. That is entirely right. Then some say: yes, but isn't it a little crazy to do that in advance? Isn't it better to calculate that after all and so forth? We have, of course, looked at this, but it will be technically extremely complex and even at the risk that you would have to pay more than you would have to pay now. Suppose the price goes up, for example, because you limit the offer, then at the end you have a very different calculation than now. We define the method of further compensation in an AMvB. My proposal would be to inform the Chamber of what it is like. I would therefore like to offer you a technical briefing on this, because these kinds of routes are quite complex. I think that's the way to put this on the collar. Then we can discuss that with each other afterwards. What I would not be so in favour of is to do it all over again by means of a back-up procedure. There is also an amendment on this. That has nothing to do with me not wanting to know what the Chamber thinks, but because of course that will take us a lot of time again. And we're really in a hurry with this bill. Those were my points about the disadvantage compensation, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u156	Mr Van der Lee also has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u157	I'm having a bit of a problem with this anyway. Of course, there are all kinds of risks if you want to work not only with an ex-ante estimate based on forward pricing, but also ex post and also apply a certain correction. In my view, this is quite common in many areas. Can we as a Chamber therefore expect the AMvB and its explanations to explain what the different options are or is the route in advance: we just go ahead and there is no choice anymore? How am I supposed to understand the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u158	We now make the choice to do this method. That's something we've been thinking about. Do you mind if I take a look for the second term to see if there might be a hook and if we are there at that time. Any luck with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u159	Yes, please, because I have also tabled an amendment to that. I think it's crucial that we understand that choice and what it would mean if you did it differently. I also want a genuinely substantiated risk assessment. Because I want to believe you, but I really want it to be well-balanced on this point, because it is a lot of money in a situation of complex transition, in which we fight for support in all kinds of areas. We must also be able to weigh that as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u160	I very much agree with you. That's why I'm making the offer that we're going to give a technical briefing. Because the commitment of the Chamber and the Cabinet is really the same here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u161	In addition to that, I would like to point out our questions. A. What about the exemption from the coal tax? For years about 90 million a year have gone there. We have chosen to give that away voluntarily. Is that settled in that compensation? B. We also asked which post it will be subject to. That has, of course, to do with the budget right of the Chamber. How is this reserved and where can we find it in the budget? I can live well with it if it is included in a letter or in the technical briefing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u162	Yeah, let's do that, because these kinds of arrangements are really complex. But again, we're really going to end up with the same thing, which is that you don't want to spend more money than strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u163	Then I don't quite understand what the Minister is saying. He offers us a technical briefing and says he's going to do it in full transparency, because we shouldn't spend more money on this than we want. He also says: yes, we respect the budget right of the Chamber. Then you can submit it to the Chamber with the different policy options? Then you can make it clear when it's there, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u164	I would also like to make it very clear and so on, but my objection to another whole procedure is that it just takes a lot of time. So I'm looking for a way to take the Chamber all the way, without getting a lot of delay. Because I think everyone here is in a hurry to implement this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u165	Yes, but I don't feel like being taken away to do anything when a majority of this Chamber thinks that this is not the right way to go. Well, then you're gonna have to walk in front of me. The moment the minister makes perfect plans, that veil will pass in a month and nothing is going to happen. But at the moment when it's braggart and we say, "whoa, wait a minute, this wasn't the deal," we can pull the emergency brake. I'd prefer that to a technical briefing anyway, and then he can take us with him. Yeah, take it where? Then I must want to go there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u166	Yeah, I get that. In my attempt to take your Chamber with me, I really do not mean that as Mrs Leijten seems to be somewhat cynical now. I really want to inform you in all transparency. By the way, every month is another month for this bill, I'll tell you that. Let me just look at what can be done and then I will come back to that in the second term. Is that okay? Once again, really, believe me in that, we are at the same end of the rope here. I do not want to spend any more on it than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u167	I do attach a great deal of importance to a pending procedure, especially when we have to vote on a law in which we do not know exactly what the disadvantage compensation is going to look like and how it will work out. My question to the Minister is: if conditions remain as they are today, with an ETS price of around €52 and a fairly low price of electricity and gas, what can be the disadvantage compensation? Is it zero? Do I understand the Minister correctly? Or is the formula constructed in such a way that even if you keep all the conditions equal and persevere, it doesn't work out that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u168	Those calculations of how that's gonna look, we're still making. As soon as we know more about that, I'll show it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u169	But with an ETS price of €52 and the current low price of gas and electricity, coal power plants are out. That's a fact, isn't it? If that is a fact, why can't the Minister answer the question of loss compensation under a law which has no material meaning?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u170	It has material meaning. This also has a bit to do with the cause of the law. I know what you're saying. There are in itself a few autonomous developments that would help this movement in itself. But of course we do not know how that will develop in the coming years. You really want to ensure that we can comply with the verdict as much as possible, which this is an important part of. That's why we're doing this with a legal limitation for several years. Then you will be legally obliged to set up a compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u171	Finally, Mr President. I'm looking for clarity on that compensation scheme. What I'm saying must be known to Minister Van 't Wout. If we keep all the conditions equal and the coal power stations are currently out, should the question be whether the disadvantage compensation will be zero or more than zero? That is why I would like to repeat my question and, if not, to clarify it in the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u172	Yeah, I can try that, but you're saying here that you're imposing a multi-annual production restriction. You're going to estimate that as best you can now, but it's not 100% certain that everything will be the same as today, so you're going to have to do something. Striving is that it is as low as possible. We are in line with current and real market expectations. Those calculations have not yet been completed. I am going to inform you about this in any case when we have also taken the European Commission's state aid test, which will also look at these aspects. They look very closely at that. But, of course, you are right in your own right that rising ETS prices will lower the disadvantage compensation. The one about the disadvantage compensation, Mr. Chairman. We will discuss this later. Then there were a number of members who asked: why do we do this until 2024 and why don't you go through with it until 2030? In 2030, we'll stop and stop using coal in the power plant. This is in itself quite an exceptional law to impose a production restriction. That is necessary and I fully support it, but it will also cost money. I am not so optimistic that we will reach €0, but perhaps the Christian Union is still right. If you look at how long it is necessary and if you look at where we stand in the future in the broadest sense, with everything else we are going to do and what is still going to come towards us from Europe, also to meet the Urgendavonnis, then it is very much the question whether such a relatively expensive measure as this one will still be the most sensible use of your euro. For example, because of rising ETS prices and competition from other energy sources, fortunately, this is going to be very hard; several Members have pointed this out, because there will probably just be a lot less production autonomously and we will probably meet the Urgendavonnis again because of all the other things. A basis for climate policy that everyone here will share seems to me that you are trying to make the maximum return on every euro you spend. I do not believe that the euro will last until 2024 in this area. There will probably be better spending to benefit the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u173	Was this another block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u174	Yeah, they're cubes, subjects... so you can get to ten, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u175	I find this very problematic. So the argument is that it will be too expensive if we carry it through to 2030, based on the idea that the disadvantage compensation should be increased. But why does it have to go up? This must be done, because it is aimed at a disadvantage compensation based on forward pricing now, rather than compensation that takes account of the real developments in the coming years. If the real developments in those years are favourable, you will have to pay less or even no compensation and you will not have to limit the duration. Then you can just flush it until all the coal plants are shut down. So those two things are closely linked. I don't understand that choice, because we just know that coal power plants are relatively huge outbursts. It is in the interests of climate policy that we no longer allow this production to go up after 2024, not only in the light of Urgenda, but also in the light of our national and increased European objectives. So I just don't understand the logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u176	I'll try again. We expect that after 2024 we will really be able to meet all these objectives, in any case because of what will still be attractive to the production of coal power plants, because of competition from other energy sources, for example through higher ETS prices, but also because of what we will do wider in climate policy. Once you impose a production restriction on someone, you'll have to give a form of disadvantage compensation, whether you like it or not. There are costs involved. The only question is whether this is still the most efficient use of your euro at the time, because it is likely that there will be much less coal production. So I think you can probably put your euros in much better plans, of which you will undoubtedly have a lot. It's just gonna cost you more money if you go through it by 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u177	So I do not believe that, because climate policy offers opportunities for renewable energy to grow even harder than has been the case. This energy is much cheaper than coal-fired power plants will be. In addition, the existing ETS system will be strengthened. So if you put into the disadvantage compensation that you take those real developments into account, then it doesn't have to cost any more money at all now. It's a sure thing. It's also sending a signal. I know from some of the owners of those coal plants that they are looking for a certain security, in order to make the choice to move quickly away from an installation where they no longer see a earning model and perhaps do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u178	Then we just don't agree. I really don't think you're spending your euro in an efficient way, because it just costs you money. The question is whether it is still really necessary. We are doing this now because we had the Urgendavonnis, which means we have to be absolutely sure that we have secured a reduction in production in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u179	One more question, though. This method appears to be accompanied by a disadvantage compensation. How and what is the Minister's position? The room doesn't know that. But would any method of ensuring that coal plants do not produce more than X in the next few years, and therefore CO emissions will not exceed Y, have been the case, for example at the minimum price?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u180	If you really want to be sure it's happening, that's what we want, because we have to relate to the Urgendavonnis.. then this is just the most certain way. I just want to tear that uncertainty out. If you limit someone's production, you will always be legally obliged to offset a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u181	I understand, but that wasn't my question, of course. My question was whether another method, which may not be legally as effective but de facto, should also be accompanied by disadvantage compensation. I mentioned the example of a minimum price, which is in fact contained in the previous coalition agreement. There is also a bill with a very low path laid down in this Chamber. But if you look outside now and perhaps adjust the minimum price slightly to that, then you have the same certainty, but without disadvantage compensation? Or is that also subject to disadvantage compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u182	You don't have the same certainty, I guess, because all these developments can be different in a while. The cabinet has chosen precisely because we really want to be 100% sure that we are achieving these CO reductions at these plants. Then this is really a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u183	Again, I understand that, but isn't it the fact that coal power stations are currently out of control because it's too expensive for them to turn around? So the laws of the market and the price are stronger than any production restriction at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u184	I agree with you on this point, and you also made a very good speech about the fact that the ETS system is starting to work well. That's gonna help us a lot in width. But again, you don't know how all kinds of things develop over the next few years. You never know for sure. Since we have such a harsh court ruling here, I would like to be absolutely sure that we can comply with it. That is why we choose this methodology.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u185	I think it is a good thing that we talk to the Minister, through that technical briefing or something, about how to determine the disadvantage compensation. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to take with him what Follow the Money invented about these companies, companies that willingly built these coal power plants and gambled that they could make sure that they would get free energy rights in the lobby. That's where they got wet. It has just been a business risk, which we now seem to have to pay disadvantage compensation for. I would therefore ask the Minister to include in the technical briefing the extent to which we can say: this was an enterprise risk; you were unlucky, because you knew there was going to be stricter climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u186	Of course, we can take that question with us. But we did say 2030; that really is a period that could have been foreseen. Now, however, we are already imposing a production restriction for the coming years in a somewhat shorter period. But I think it would be a good idea to bring all these questions. Again, we are not opposed to each other on that point. It's not like I feel like spending a lot of money on this. I want to do what I'm legally required to do and no more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u187	Mr. Bouckes. Recovery: Mr Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u188	Boucke, indeed. Thank you. I listen carefully to the Minister, but the longer I listen, the more I am questioned. We all want the target to be achieved, and as soon as possible. I am concerned and I also think that the other members of the Chamber should be as clever as possible to bring together the compensation. What's going on compared to a few months or a few years ago? The ETS price is much higher. The situation is really different now. That raises the question of whether it is really the smartest thing to do with forward pricing. Shouldn't we be looking at the real price? You say it's very complicated and complex, but you can't explain it to me in a clear way right now, so I'm stuck with that question. I'll add something to that. You and us...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u189	"The Minister" because "you" is me, isn't it? So you'd better say the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u190	Yeah, excuse me. "The Minister," I say through you, Mr. Chairman. The minister still has a number of buttons that he can turn. If we do it smart this summer, together with the EU, we can ensure that the ETS price goes up further. So you also have other buttons to turn on. In that light, I'm very curious to know what the smartest choice is. Is that forward pricing or something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u191	We are convinced that this is really the smartest way, because it will be an almost unstoppable exercise afterwards. Moreover, the market price developments of the ETS are taken into account in the calculations we are making. We are trying to make the most realistic assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u192	We're handling this bill quickly. We want to achieve those goals. But the disadvantage compensation still needs to be designed, the Minister claims. So the delay isn't here, it's in the Ministry. That is what I wanted to say about the previous one. So what is the 238 million Riverstone is asking for for the voluntary closure of the Onyx plant based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u193	I'll come to the closure grant in a moment, if you don't mind. That question is in another folder. Mr. Chairman. Many of your Members have asked for attention here, Mrs Leijten; at least, in part, for a social plan and employment effects. The condition for the possible granting of a grant is that there is a good social plan. That is just a tough condition that we have made. So it won't work without it. Some asked: would this limitation not in itself have an effect on employment? We do not know in any way that this would be the case. Of course you're watching. Someone called it "a little chilly" that we would have said that it is primarily up to the employer himself, but that is what I think is at the heart of the matter. As an employer, you simply have a responsibility to your staff, even if someone loses their job. So that's the base, I don't think that's so crazy at all. But, of course, we are watching this very closely together with the Minister for Social Affairs. The resources available for employment effects of the energy transition can be used. The Minister of SZW is also currently in consultation with the social partners. Reference was also made to the previous Hemweg arrangement. Did that work out well? In conclusion, that is a bit of the model you should be thinking of, as far as we are concerned, in the direction of Mrs Leijten. Mr Kops of the PVV asked: has that done his job? The supervision of these workers is still ongoing. Most people are just relocated inside Vattenfall. As far as that wasn't possible, they've been relocated to the Coal Chain Westhaven Mobility Centre. Pretty much everyone's found a job. Less than five people are still in the care of this mobility centre. So I think that really did its job there. In this context, the Beckerman motion, which was tabled earlier, was indeed also requested. Of course, we have them clearly on the retina. Once again, if we end up with subsidies on closure, then there must be a social plan. That's also a demand we've included in those call for proposals. These are the same principles as in the Westhaven Arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u194	You'll have to forgive me a little bit if I may confuse things. One time it's the grant, then it's disadvantage compensation and then we call it a call for proposal again. But the point here is that 238 million is requested by the American investor Riverstone, who bought Onyx a few years ago with three others, four in total, for 200 million. I'd like to know what that subsidy is based on. And I would also like to know, especially in the light of the answers given to the parliamentary questions, what the Ministry has had in the meantime for contacts on the amount of that amount, on staff deployment. Because they have to stop working in order to fight for their interests at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u195	I'm just looking for the folder that that's in, because those dots are in a different block. Can we see if we run into it on our own, Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u196	I'll get back to you on this one, Mr. Chairman. The Minister can count on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u197	That's why. I've known you longer than I've known you today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u198	But I hope you also understand that those amounts, even for a former financial spokesman, look really bizarre. And I also hope that the Minister understands that I am rather disappointed in answering Parliament's questions, because I actually asked for this kind of information in those questions. Those answers came this afternoon, which is good for the debate, but if those questions are not answered properly, they will of course come back to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u199	Yes. By the way, I would like to say that on the previous point I feel really connected with the Chamber. We really want these employment effects to be as minimal as possible. And if there are, then we just need to take good care of those people. That really is a joint commitment of Cabinet and Chamber. You can count on it. Mr. Chairman. Then there are several points related to the bill. It was asked whether the ETS rights that are now exempt would be withdrawn from the market. If we create a surplus of duties by taking coal measures, it automatically goes to the market stability reserve. So we don't even have to do anything about that ourselves. Among others, Mr Erkens asked: how are we going to monitor the effects on the energy bill? That is, of course, something we do every year anyway, and of course we always look more broadly at its effects on the wallet in the August decision-making process. Of course, there are more things to this than just the energy bill. You always weigh what you decide reasonably and fairly, given the possibilities at that time. In spring, the CBS will present an up-to-date picture of the evolution of the energy account in the current year. In the autumn, at the KEV, the PBL will start in the longer term. In August, you always look at the purchasing power effects of all your policies, as you know. He also asked: how do we ensure that energy prices remain a little affordable? That is, I think, a common goal of all of us. The energy transition, climate policy, is incredibly important, but we do want people to be able to experience it and that people can carry it. In the energy bill, of course, our influence is limited to the level of energy taxes. So you will always have to weigh that up with each other as a cabinet and chamber in the August decision-making process. Mr. Chairman. There were several members, including Mr Erkens, who asked: we now have the chance to import electricity? Yeah, that's true. However, the Supreme Court has weighed that: from a road leakage effect you should not be concerned at the moment; you simply have to meet the requirements and therefore impose that production restriction. Our estimate is that we can capture the most part in the Netherlands, but you will probably also have to import something. You can't tell from the power cable where it finally came from. We just have to be honest about that. That's a disadvantage, but I think it's really very small. Mr Van Raan asked for that too. So we try to keep the leaks as small as possible, where you will still be helped if other countries from which you import are also greening. Then there were a number of questions, among others from Mr Jansen, but also from Mr Kops, which actually went a little wider. They have their own views on climate policy and whether it makes sense that you in the Netherlands do something about it or not. The government's position, supported by a large majority in the Chamber in recent years, is that we need to tackle this globally. That means that everyone will have to take their role in that. Of course, a share of the Netherlands is smaller than that of a much larger country, but if everyone is going to reason like that, then nothing ever comes off the ground. Even Mr Stoffer began to embrace the European idea, as he indicated in his speech. This is an excellent thing that you will have to pick up internationally and together. That is the answer to the more fundamental debate, which I am sure will come back often. Anyway, tonight we're talking about this bill, which we're bound by by the ruling of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u200	I find it a little too easy what the Minister is saying here, because let us not forget that it is the State itself that has argued in the Urgenda case that the additional CO reduction, as demanded by Urgenda and imposed by the judge, leads to 0.000045 degrees less warming. So the state itself put that forward as an argument and wanted to prove it: well, what are we actually doing, Mr. Judge; that extra CO reduction is totally negligible. In addition, former Minister Wiebes said: we are appealing and in cassation, precisely because we want to know whether the judge can sit on the seat of politics to this extent. Let's face it, you're not going to appeal and in cassation for your fun. You do that because you don't agree with a verdict. So I find it far too easy for the state to put on very big pants in the Urgenda case, of 'well, no, it doesn't have a climate effect; we shouldn't do that', but in the end it will continue to roll out climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u201	It wasn't like we didn't have a climate policy before Urgenda. Only, we are now faced with a verdict from the highest court. In the end, we have to accept them. That's how it works in a rule of law. Therefore, this specific measure is really necessary. I meant more that there is a broader discussion on the point of climate policy from your side. That is a well-known position of the PVV. From this cabinet I really feel bound by what we have agreed with each other in different ways in the Climate Agreement, in the Climate Act and so on. I feel supported by a large majority of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u202	It's just a matter of common sense, isn't it? If China builds 30 gigawatts of coal energy and the Netherlands closes 4 gigawatts of coal energy, what have we achieved? It's costing us so much money. It costs normal people so much money. We're just throwing away money, burning it, like forests in biomass plants, when the effect is ultimately zero. We agree on that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u203	We have agreed on our climate objectives all over the world. Every country must contribute to this, including the Netherlands. Each country will have to do so in its own way. On top of that, I have a court order that I have to relate to. It simply demands that we achieve that reduction in the short term. That's what this bill is all about. At that time, you were not yet in the Chamber of Commerce, which made extensive inventories on what could be done in the short term. This is the biggest hit you can make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u204	But when we are doing something completely absurd, we have to ask ourselves a few questions and say: this statement, which, by the way, is very much to be seen, simply doesn't make any sense. China reached the border last year and emits more CO than the entire developed world combined. And then we're gonna close down some coal power stations here for a while. That doesn't have any effect, does it? You can see that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u205	Climate policy must be done internationally. I agree with Mr Jansen. In the first instance, this must be done at European level as well. I'm sure we'll talk about that a lot this summer. But it is true that each country has its own role in this. If we reason everywhere "they emit much more, so we don't do anything," the whole system will of course fall apart. Everyone's gonna say, "We're just gonna quit." That seems to me to be extremely unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u206	It would be very good for Dutch people, because they have to pay for it in the end. I therefore hope that you will finally draw a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u207	I'm afraid we're not going to find each other entirely on this. Mr. Chairman. Then there were some questions about Urgenda. Mr Boucke said, above all, keep talking to them, including the Prime Minister. So do we. Soon I will speak to Mrs Minnesma of Urgenda again, in which the Prime Minister will also be present. We all see more widely that we are far from there in terms of climate policy. I think everyone can see that. Whether we're going to get Urgenda is still exciting and uncertain. But we have our targets towards 2030 and 2050. We are going to get proposals from Europe this summer that will also have an effect on the Netherlands on the left or right. This is certainly not the last debate your Chamber will have on climate policy and new proposals. As long as I am in this position, I will make a full commitment to that. In addition, it is always a matter of searching, also in the role as a missionary cabinet. It's a little complicated sometimes. But I think we're just gonna get out of there. We will have to talk to each other after the summer about what we think of the European proposals. Then we'll have to see if the formation is complete or still ongoing and how we pour it into the barrel. I believe that one of your Members said that this is not a problem of resignation. That's true, of course. So that's what we're going to have to relate to. I think we will talk a great deal about new ambitions, plans and European efforts around the summer and certainly afterwards. Mrs Mulder then asked a number of questions about the Energy Charter. She asked if there was a risk of an arbitration case. Theoretically, that is possible, because companies have that right. The right of access to justice is a great asset, of course. You'll agree with me. That may be a national court, but it may also be subject to international law. The Netherlands is a party to the ECT, as you know, and believes that the legal protection afforded by it is comparable to the principles we know here from the general principles of good governance in our national law. That treaty does not in itself create any additional rights, but an additional course of justice. Of course, filing a claim does not automatically mean that it will be granted. We will defend ourselves in every possible way, including in the cases that have now been announced. Mrs Mulder also asks: should we not even amend that treaty a little, because is it not sometimes abused? That is exactly why we, with Mr Kaag leading the way from BuHa-OS, are strongly committed to modernising the Treaty, with the aim of clarifying the right of states to regulate, also preventing that abuse and, above all, ensuring that you can simply pursue climate policy. Moreover, the European Commission is ultimately conducting these talks on our behalf, but we have our say in the Commission. The effort is modernisation, because in itself we believe that these types of treaties also provide legal certainty for Dutch entrepreneurs. Then she asked if I know how many Dutch investors have made use of this. I am not aware of any figures, at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u208	Is that because those figures are not there or because the Minister does not have those figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u209	At least I couldn't get them out of my ministry. And then they won't exist, because they always know everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u210	Perhaps the Minister can check this before the second term or else agree to send a letter about which companies use it from the Netherlands and what the order of magnitude is. Because if there is no Dutch company that uses it, of course there are other steps conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u211	I'll see if there's any more information, but I'm afraid that's not the case. But even if you haven't made use of it, you might not want to exclude for the future that Dutch companies can make use of it. Because it does protect you from illegal government trade in other countries, which, of course, will benefit us as a very exporting and globally operating country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u212	I understand what the Minister is saying, but it actually came because we were trading with countries that were uncertain for us in the Eastern bloc. Now we see that it is actually being used by European companies on European soil, and I just find it very strange that it is being applied in this way. That should not be necessary, because we all have reasonably good legal systems in Europe. Okay, I have to admit that I find Poland and Hungary a bit difficult, but for companies it is quite reasonable. Then I think: why should we all allow that and give them so many possibilities? That's why it's the modernisation hit. Suppose there really is no company from the Netherlands that has ever used it or could possibly still use it. Then you can also consider another route if that modernisation route is not going to deliver what we expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u213	Well, it's getting a little broader now. For that I really should look at Mrs Kaag, as a colleague. Let's see what we can put in a letter for you about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u214	I find the answer to Mrs Mulder rather unheard of. The argument was correct: we are now suffering from the use of this extra corporate court, so to speak, but we also benefit from it when our companies invest abroad. Now that it appears that there are no companies coming out of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that argument does not apply at all. This Chamber has said before: do we have to comply with that treaty if we are, outside our ordinary jurisdiction, being challenged for potential investment disadvantages imposed on us by billions of companies? At that time the argument was 'no, we can't get out of it, because it affects our business' and now it turns out that our business doesn't come out of the ministry. What's wrong here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u215	I just don't have those numbers here. I'll ask again if there's any more information on that, or maybe at BuHa-OS. I have already announced a letter on this subject to Mrs Mulder. More generally, I would say that a country such as the Netherlands is very much in the interests of protecting the legal position of Dutch companies operating in other countries. I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u216	Perhaps this Minister for Economic Affairs has not been in his post for long enough to know that there is also another wind blowing and that we are saying that the protection of investment in all kinds of treaties that are outside legal systems may not be today, because it protects certain investments, outside our ordinary legal system. I therefore find this way of thinking very well known in recent years, and I know that the Chamber has started to think very differently. As a result, for example, the ratification of the Mercosur Convention with South American countries has now been blocked. There is a lot of discussion about CETA, especially about this type of investment protection. So if this is the argument to say to the Chamber "Tuttuttut! Don't be so critical, because our companies abroad" and it's not there... Yes, you can't go for a walk with the people's representatives, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u217	That's certainly not my intention. That's how Mrs Leijten knows me. I'll see what we can find out about it. This was just what I just got out of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u218	Mr Van der Lee on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u219	Yes, at this point, because the Energy Charter Treaty has often been the subject of discussion. I am right that the defence line of the Ministry is at least as described in the original explanatory memorandum to the Coal Act, that the use of the charter as RWE has now done conflicts with European law, on the basis of case law in another case, with an insurer? So I find the argument a little strange. In addition, we see that the Netherlands is being used, with letterbox companies, by foreign companies to initiate this type of arbitration business through the Netherlands. This wasn't meant to happen before. There is therefore every reason to revise the charter and to stop if that does not happen soon enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u220	The bet is therefore also to revise the charter. As I said earlier, we will also dispute the admissibility of these matters, precisely for the very reason you have given. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Mulder showed us what she was allowed to receive yesterday from climate class. I also talk to young people about climate policy every so often. There is a great deal of commitment there, especially since they know even more than a 40-year-old like me that this is about their future. So there's just a lot of that contact. I very much appreciate their involvement. In the climate paper, we also report on an annual basis what we have all discussed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u221	I was wondering if the Minister would be willing to talk to Youth For Climate, also about this manifesto they have offered today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u222	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u223	That is a very good commitment for young people. They'll be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u224	You'll have to ask after! Haha. No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u225	I had another question about the Minister's European commitment to the closure of coal plants in Europe. It is linked to another question I had for the Minister, namely whether the closure of the power stations would reduce the amount of allowances in the emissions trading system. The Minister said: yes, it is. But I also get information that this is happening, but far too little. The problem is getting worse as more coal plants close down in Europe. My question is whether the Minister could inform us about this. Because it may be very small when it comes to what we are talking about today, but it is getting bigger as we close more coal plants in Europe and we want to close them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u226	I think that this is an excellent discussion which we will be holding together in the context of European policy as a whole. This is, of course, the crux. How do you ensure that the ETS system continues to function properly? I simply estimate that the ETS system will come to higher prices due to European post-summer policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u227	Do I hear the Minister say that he will plead in Europe for more rights to be removed from the market so that there is no air in the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u228	There you come up with a bit of a complicated... If Europe comes up with its proposals, we are going to find some of that through BNC chips. Then we also have to look at the status of the formation, the outgoing cabinet and so on. But the ETS is on its own, I believe you also said that your enthusiasm had grown, a very well-functioning system. Of course, that works especially if you make sure there is a higher price. The advantage of this is also that your Dutch companies do not harm extra compared to other companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u229	I am really disappointed by the Minister's reluctance to take full advantage of this. Because it's very simple: you just have to want to get those rights out of the market if you want to have a robust system. That's what we've been doing over the years. I am therefore disappointed that the Minister does not simply want to give a clear answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u230	At this closure, it happens. I strongly support the ETS system. I think that a tightening up of this is the perfect way for the Netherlands to achieve a good climate policy and that we have a great deal of benefit from it. I am still trying to be a little reluctant and not pre-empting what we are about to find of the European proposals, because I really have to wait and see if we are still outgoing or if there is a new cabinet and so on. But we will certainly come to speak to the Chamber about that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is also a lot of discussion about biomass. That's not new, of course. The question was, among other things, what about no new subsidies? We have already decided not to grant new subsidies for the use of biomass for the production of electricity. In addition, there are the motions by Sienot and Van Esch asking for additional policies to stop granting subsidies for the production of low temperature heat with woody biomass until a phase-out date. The way I'm supposed to carry out that motion, I'll come back to you in the short term. In doing so, we will have to address a number of complexities, namely that the phasing-out path of the PBL has been declared controversial. On the other hand, you know that it says that, without biomass, it becomes very complicated to achieve our climate goals and that this would also cost a lot of money. So I will quickly come back to the implementation of these motions after consultation in the Cabinet, and I am sure we will talk more about how to proceed with biomass. The position of this cabinet is that we really need it to achieve our goals. How a next cabinet decides on this is up to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u231	It is striking that the Minister says that we need biomass to meet the climate targets. Do you honestly say, Minister, that this is pure fraud, precisely because the CO emissions of biomass are not included in our climate accounting? Coal and gas will be, while biomass releases more CO, but we do not count them for convenience. Those emissions are there, but we don't count them. Tell me the truth: that's nothing but a scam, is it? That has nothing to do with climate, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u232	We really need biomass to meet our goals. That also indicates the PBL to us. Their emissions were measured at harvest. So it's definitely being taken. We in the Netherlands are also doing everything we can to ensure that biomass is truly responsible CO-neutral here. I can't predict what a next cabinet will think of that. I just think you're going to face a real challenge, the PBL also says, if you don't work with biomass anymore. Then you become dependent on techniques that are still too in their infancy, with all the consequences for the security of supply. Only, that PBL construction path has just been declared controversial by your Chamber again, so that's a bit of a complicated puzzle for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u233	I think it's way too easy. Everyone agrees that biomass releases more CO than coal and gas, and that even complete forests in Estonia and Latvia are being cut down to be burned here in the Netherlands, in our power stations. Tell me for yourself that has nothing to do with climate policy, whether you're in favour of it or not. That's a scam, isn't it? And when the Minister says, "Yes, we need biomass to meet the climate targets," it is only because these emissions are not taken into account for convenience, because they are so convenient. At the same time, this shows how unachievable these climate targets are in practice. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u234	I don't think those targets are unachievable. I do think there are major challenges, but I am optimistic about that. This cabinet has always held on to biomass and is also supported by the PBL. We just need that. By the way, these are not just forests that are being cut down. We are doing everything we can to ensure that what we use here is all as responsible as possible. How we proceed with this in the future will also really be up to a next cabinet, because the consequences of stopping it are simply very big.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u235	Science tells us that continuing with biomass presorting is a disaster. Because these emissions are common in the end, but they are just not counted, as my predecessor said. I have three questions about that. One: is the Minister at least prepared to measure the size of the emissions? I already asked that question. Two: how much biomass is the Minister concerned in the coming years? Three: there is a new form of subsidy in the making, the flexibility capital grant. That assumes that you get a grant when you prepare your plant in such a way that you can quickly switch on. It's independent of the kind of energy. Is the Minister prepared to exclude at least biomass from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u236	How much biomass exactly, what number it is, I should look it up. Once again, you also know the report of the PBL on this subject. I also understand that this has been declared controversial in that sense, because if you were to stop using biomass, to a greater or lesser extent, there would be huge consequences. Those are very big choices that aren't up to a missionary cabinet. Because it has financial consequences and then you really need to have a discussion about your security of supply at the time, which I think you will eventually find important. After all, we do not want people to turn out the light. So yes, we are working towards a phasing-out, but I would do it responsibly, and not very quickly. I'm afraid we just need it for a long time, at least when I look at what the PBL has advised us about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u237	The Minister cites the PBL. The Economic and Social Committee has also said something about this. The scientific academies throughout Europe have said something about this. They indicate that it is not sustainable and that you have to count it. It is clear that it is controversial, but the Minister is not answering my question. Go ahead and measure it, 'cause then you'll know. Sooner or later this will turn around and biomass will no longer be labeled as sustainable. So is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u238	All these things are already measured at harvest, so you're going to do a double count. So I don't think that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u239	No. It is measured on a country-by-country basis, but it does not measure how much disappears in the power stations. Is that what he wants to measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u240	I don't see any added value in that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u241	Then I have another question about this grant of flexibility. Can the Minister tell us anything about that? Thanks for the commitment to the amount of biomass...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u242	...if we have that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u243	...if we have that to put in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u244	I don't think that's a good idea either. That also affects the discussion whether or not you want to use biomass. I now find it extremely complicated as a minister in a outgoing cabinet to say 'we stop everything', because it all has enormous effects. So you're gonna have to come up with alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u245	I hope Mr Van Raan is healthy, because I am standing by his microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u246	We'll disinfect you ourselves later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u247	So I hope you're healthy. That goes for everyone, by the way. I do not want to talk about the whole debate on the reduction of biomass, however tempting. I just want to get back to the bill. I just want to understand very clearly what the consequences of the bill are, so of the amendment to the original law. The original law stated that these coal plants are being phased out and that the compensation is not in money, but in the possibility of using other techniques, including biomass. There is a subsidy for that. The reduction in production, as introduced at present, means that the volume of co-fired biomass will decrease compared to previous estimates. That's how I understand it, because it's about mixing. This means that the amount reserved is unlikely to have to be spent in the decision. Is that true, or should I see it in a way that recourse to the decisions that have been issued could go on longer in time? I hope I am clear in the question, because it is a technically difficult subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u248	Yes. Perhaps you could try again to ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u249	Yeah, we got time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u250	I'm glad the chairman's so flexible. Look, the billions we're talking about are reservations. These are not amounts that are automatically given. You are not entitled to part of that amount until an uneconomic summit has been created because you have co-fired biomass. That's how the SDE grant works. Now a production restriction is imposed. Thus, less biomass can be co-fired in the coming years. Is that true, or can you get out of that production restriction if you switched all the way to biomass in one go? That's one question. The other question is whether this means that decisions can be relied on in time if they have not been used up in the next four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u251	I would ask you to allow me to come back to this in the second period of time. We no longer provide new subsidies for biomass in electricity production; you know that anyway. This bill regulates that there is a production restriction on coal, but does not say anything about what one would like to do or not in a biomass power station. At least, it doesn't fix anything for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u252	It does have implications, including for the disadvantage compensation. The volume of biomass to be devoid of is going to do quite a lot with the margins that one makes in the coming years, precisely because there is a subsidy on it. I do not need to hear that today, but I do want to be part of the development of the AMvB. In the technical briefing, as a Chamber, we must have an insight into the amount of biomass that is likely to be most smoked in the coming years. I think we need to know that in order to properly assess whether there is a fair compensation. At the same time, this gives us an insight as to whether perhaps not as much assistance is needed at all as is predicted or expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u253	Let's see how I can operate you at the most by that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u254	I just wanted to think about what just happened. It was very interesting what the Minister said. He said that the biomass is needed to achieve the goals and that otherwise these are actually unfeasible as Mr. Kops said. I wonder if the cabinet has had it passed on what would be the consequence of stopping the use of biomass. How much wind and sun are needed to compensate for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u255	The PBL has looked at a phasing-out path. That phasing-out path has now been declared controversial, but the PBL has looked into it. Then we try to gain even more insight into the financial consequences of this. But the PBL clearly indicates that you will need it in the near future, also from the point of view of security of supply. Anyway, it's up to another cabinet to perhaps make other considerations about that. The PBL plan has been declared controversial. So we're in a bit of a complicated phase now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u256	There does not necessarily need to be an answer now, but perhaps it is interesting to receive a letter about it, or perhaps even to ask for something about it from the PBL.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u257	In any case, I will return to you shortly on the motions that have been adopted on this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u258	I find it disappointing and somewhat unsatisfactory that the Minister is discussing this bill, which deals with the phasing out of coal production, and which states that alternatives are fine, and we all know that that is about biomass.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He can't really give a good answer to it other than: the PBL says it. Yes, there are other organisations that say that we should at least stop subsidising it and that we should work on phasing it out. The Minister doesn't go into that. And then he says, "It's been declared controversial, so I can't do anything." It has to do with each other. We know these power stations are gonna co-incinerate. We know that, for example, the Onyx plant, to which you will have to come back, is applying for a grant of almost a quarter of a billion to stop coal, but already has a plan for a start on biomass. That has everything to do with food from the wheel of taxpayers' money from all of us. And then the Minister makes that a technical story and he says: it is controversial and I have the PBL, but the SER says otherwise. But the Minister will find something for himself, won't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u259	Well, let's talk about the relationship right now. We're a missionary cabinet. There is a PBL opinion on the phasing-out path. This was then again declared controversial by the Chamber, which makes it rather complicated to take all kinds of steps as a cabinet. And yes, my estimate is that, if we decide to stop using biomass, we really have a few very big challenges to solve in terms of security of supply, finance and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u260	The Minister thinks so. CE Delft says to us: that security of supply is greatly overrated. The House has said that we will at least stop subsidies on biomass. That's not controversial. The minister is hiding and sketching a doom: the light goes out or the big industry is out of energy. That is exactly the same line of reasoning that was used at the time, in 2006 and 2007, to build these new coal plants, which we now have to spend billions on to shut them down again. I find it so little substantiated, while this bill does open the door to the cook and to that biomass, which we all say: it doesn't produce anything in the CO targets, it costs us a lot of tax money and it is not an alternative to renewable energy; are you committed to that? That's what the ESC says. And then the Minister says, "Yes, I think so."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u261	I'm just basing myself on what the PBL presents to us as a consulting firm. Furthermore, we are no longer providing new subsidies for biomass in power plants. We're not spending any more grant decisions on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u262	Mr. Van Raan just a moment longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u263	I assume the Minister knows that until 2032, the amount reserved for biomass subsidies is 4.9 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u264	Those are existing decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u265	Yeah, yeah, existing. And we also know that the coal plants are switching to burning more biomass. Otherwise they can't be maintained. Then the Minister must be able to tell us how much biomass is involved, even if it was only about balancing the 4.2 billion in subsidies. That is quite apart from the fact that these plants may not be subsidised by themselves. That he doesn't know that, I'm fine with it. I get that. But it must be able to link a quantity of biomass to the maximum amount of subsidy that can still go into it? He's got to know that, right? He says, "I don't know," but he should be able to tell us that, right? That's one. Two. The Minister refers to a phasing-out path of the PBL, but that is precisely the point: it is not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u266	You're right. I'm using the wrong term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u267	So there's no exit path at all. It can be calculated. It would be nice if the Minister admits that or at least makes a commitment to estimate how much biomass will go into these plants until 2030 or 2032 if you look at the amount that is earmarked for it, namely 4.9 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u268	I'm gonna see if I can get that looked up for you. I think I've said that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u269	Thank you. I understand he said he wasn't gonna do it, but I understand now that he's gonna do it. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u270	Then I had a question from Mrs Leijten. She is talking about an amount of a subsidy, but we have not, of course, yet granted it. It is an application that they have made, but of course that subsidy has not yet been given. That decision has yet to be taken, for example a good social plan is a condition, something that you and I both consider so important. So the bullet isn't through the church yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u271	Yeah, we were that far. That grant was applied for in October. On what basis does Riverstone, owner of Onyx, come to the request for 238 million? What did the Ministry do in the meantime? Is that in proportion to the investment Riverstone made? These are all questions that I have put in writing and which I do not yet have an answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u272	I have tried to tell you as much as possible about this before, but we are now looking at what is real and what exactly they are asking us to do. After that, we will eventually have to reach a decision on the amount to be paid. We have, of course, already indicated what we would like to spend on it. As soon as I know more about that, I'll inform your Chamber right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u273	The emissions from the Onyx aren't that much right now, because it's a little flat. Because it's broken. In reply 5, which you sent today, it says: "In recent months, there has been contact with the coal plant management and with the shareholder of Power Plant Rotterdam about the (financial) underpinning of the proposal made under the call for proposals." Then they were just asked how they could get to 238 million and whether they could receive it. That's what I'm asking. Is that in relation? I would then like to ask what you have actually done for the staff who are asking for support. "It's conditional on the grant, but we don't interfere." So the ministry goes there, talks to the director and the shareholders somewhere in America, but doesn't interfere with the staff. You say you have a warm heart for it, you look at it and you think it's important, but isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u274	We're not gonna pay out this whole grant unless there's a decent social plan. That's a tough condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u275	They're asking: almost a quarter of a billion. They're asking what the basis for that amount is. We're not given that. Then I ask what the Ministry has done to bring it a little further after the break. From October to April is quite a time. "There has been contact, but we do not interfere with the negotiations between the or." They ask for help from The Hague because they do not move forward with the shareholders, who of course want to withdraw the money from the Onyxcentrale as much as possible. But that is not enough. There's a demand for 238 million. That's a hell of a lot of money. Apparently, that's what they can ask. Apparently, that's common. What about the staff? Yeah, sorry, let's just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u276	Sorry, I really don't agree with Mrs Leijten. We have launched a call for proposals with the question of whether there is anyone willing to close their plant. An application has been made for that. A tough condition is that a good social plan is made, so that the staff will simply be treated properly. If that is not the case, the entire subsidy will not be paid at all. It's a necessary condition. There's a reason we agreed to that at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u277	Yeah, and what if the investor who bought the plant for a fourth of 200 million says, "I think 11 million is enough for my staff, while the staff says it should be 60 million." Who, according to the Minister, is going to get the longest when the Minister doesn't do anything, when he does talk to the shareholders and the management, but doesn't listen to the staff? Who, according to the Minister, is pulling at the longest end of the rope: the shareholders or the employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u278	We simply want them to come to a good and decent social plan. They will have to submit this before we grant that subsidy and then we will assess it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u279	I just want answers to the questions I ask. I will put them back in writing and I expect the Minister to answer them properly and as soon as possible. How do they get such a sum? What contacts have been there? Why doesn't the Minister interfere with the position of the staff in subcontracting? Because a chamber motion has been adopted that oversees this power station. The elected chambermovement is from December. It's been five months. Decent handling also gives the Chamber the confidence that it will be resolved in a good way. But looking at it with your hands behind your back and giving vague answers, while it's about giga amounts, doesn't create confidence; at least not with the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u280	Then we'll look into those questions. I will always do my best to answer your questions as best I can, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u281	On the same subject, the call for proposal, and the response from Rotterdam I had asked when the decision of the department falls. Can the Minister at least indicate when a decision will be taken and when we will be able to take note of it? I would ask that, because I am curious whether or not this call or, rather, the call-based proposal is being weighed against the disadvantage compensation that still has to be worked out under this law and the alternative compensation in the form of time and biomass, which is in the original law and which are now subject to legal proceedings. Is that considered in conjunction or is the assessment of the call for proposal entirely on its own? When do we get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u282	I mean that... I'm gonna double-check the date when you get that. I'll be right back. Mr. Chairman. It is also good practice to assess the amendments in advance in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u283	Before we do that, can I ask the Minister a question? We are standing here for a bill to reduce CO emissions from coal power plants to comply with the Urgendavonnis. We have heard from Urgenda this week that they think that this is not enough to reach that verdict. That is why I asked how much reduction there will be. How many megatons will this bill reduce? If we stick to the 35% instead of 25% or just 0%, as I suggested, what else is needed to close the gap to meet the Urgendavonnis? Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u284	We still have to get the final figures for 2020. The first figures we saw are on and around 25% or perhaps just below. We all see that there were also effects of corona and the mild winter, for example. So you have a chance that this year it looks a little worse. We have to be real about that. This is one of the largest parts of the whole package that was made at the time following the Urgendavonnis. At that time, we looked very closely at what is real and feasible to really comply with the verdict as soon as possible. We're gonna have to keep checking to see if there's anything else we can do. I also think that we should look at this in particular in relation to how we are going to proceed at all with our targets in 2030 and 2050, which are likely to be further strengthened as a result of the European programme. As I said, we will have to talk to your Chamber about this after the summer whether it is this cabinet or a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u285	I understand that it is difficult for the Minister, but also for the Chamber, to see how far we should go with this law in this way, because we do not know what the actual figures are. Kallavasta has made the best possible assessment of this and says that there should be 5 to 12 megatons of CO reduction this year. If we decide today to close the coal plants, I think it will be about 4 to 5 megatons. That means they have to be completely closed, not that they can continue at 25%, because then it's only 2 megatons or something. In other words, the Minister or the Netherlands has a very big problem, because even if this law is passed tomorrow and those coal power stations are going to run less, there is still a huge gap with the Urgendavonnis. I'd like to ask the Minister, how do we deal with that? The best estimate we have now is not from the PBL, but from a renowned agency... says that the law as it stands is not enough to comply with Urgendavonnis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u286	That's what I just said. We have, of course, made every effort in recent years to see what can be done to meet the Urgendavonnis. This is a big part of it. Coal-fired power stations are completely closed, which is simply not possible, because with the security of supply in the Netherlands we will have a great danger or problem. I don't think you'd like that either. As I have just said, we will have to look very carefully in the future at what additional efforts we can make, because I really do see that challenge. I would also say that it is ultimately about achieving our goals by 2030 and 2050. We all care about that. Those targets will be raised. This cabinet, if there is no new cabinet yet, or the new cabinet around the summer, will have to talk to a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u287	So that's not the point, even though we'll bring it all up. This debate is not about targets in 2030 and 2050. This concerns the maximum emissions that the Netherlands may have by the end of 2020, 2021 and 2022; the Urgendavonnis. We're not gonna get that Urgendavonnis by a long shot, I see. I think Urgenda has made it very clear in the media: if you don't make it, dear cabinet, we're going to get money. Instead of the coal companies doing that, Urgenda's gonna do it. It's just not good enough. If we already find that this law is not enough to comply with the Urgendavonnis, then all the alarm bells must go off and there must now be a plus package. Now! We're six years late. We've been waiting six years for this law to finally be in this Chamber. Now it is there and we find that it is not enough. When are we gonna do more?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u288	In recent years, we have really looked at what can be achieved in the short term to meet the Urgendavonnis. That's where the package came out, where it's one of the biggest blowers. Of course, you're gonna have to see if there's anything else you can do. I would really like to see that in conjunction with your longer-term goals, because that is ultimately what we are all doing for. Furthermore, there are not so many measures in the very short term, or that requires very large, huge political decisions, which I cannot take here alone on a Tuesday night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u289	I understand that we are in the other block, because the Minister already went to the assessment of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u290	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u291	I've missed three things, and I have very short questions about that. I asked about the sustainable import of energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u292	I've already said something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u293	Then I missed that. Then I'm gonna check it out. You said you can't do that, I understand. But there are certificates for sustainable energy imports, aren't there? The Minister also assumes that biomass can do the same, so why not energy? Two. I may have missed it, but I asked for the abolition of the coal subsidy or, in fact, the exemption where the documents on 3.1 have remained Compatibility Act. I would like to see it, because it determines whether the exemption actually works. Three. I'd like to conclude with that. The Constitutional Court in Germany has wiped the floor with the German climate law, which goes beyond the Dutch Climate Law. Right away, the targets have been raised. I have two questions about that. Does the Minister recognize the analysis of the German court? That says: "The longer you wait, the worse the measures you have to take for the next generation. We can't do that to them, so you have to do something now." Does the Minister recognize that reasoning? Two. So the targets in Germany are actually much higher and we are always afraid of a road leak if we are too strict here. Is the Minister not now afraid, let us say, of a 'infectious effect' of polluting German companies coming here because it is more flexible here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u294	I don't see that happening right now. We also need to see how Germany is going to reapply these raised goals. But of course we are going to understand ourselves again about how we are dealing with our objectives, also in the context of what Europe is going to ask of us all and how we ourselves are going to stand up to them as Dutch politics. So that is really a discussion that we will have to have with each other towards the summer, and especially after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u295	That's a half answer to question three. The question was also whether the Minister recognizes this analysis: the longer you wait, the more drastic the measures you have to take, because it is irresponsible to saddle a next generation with the consequences of climate change. Does the Minister recognize that analysis? Then there was the demand for this comptability.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u296	I shall come back to the latter in the second term, if you will allow it. Do I recognize the analysis? Yes, but that is why this cabinet has had a very ambitious climate policy. Some say that may not have gone far enough, I don't think so, but it was indeed a very ambitious climate policy. That is why, as the Netherlands in Europe, we have also argued in favour of raising these standards. You know that too; there the Netherlands was one of the pioneers. We will certainly continue to discuss how to proceed in Europe in the light of the proposals they are going to present to us there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u297	I would like to build on the question put by Mr Thijssen to the Minister. It's important to have what's left of the hole sharp. We should not think too lightly about that. We're standing here all night. Maybe we'll go through the night... to talk about a part that's about a few megatons. Well, I guess we're not here yet, but we want to get the Urgenda target. So I am looking for what we can do and how we can persuade the Minister to inform us about what is left of the gap. You don't have to do that tonight, but you will be very soon. I would also like to know from the Minister what he's going to do about closing that hole. I assume the Minister agrees with me that we need to reach the Urgenda target. Mr Thijssen really tried very hard, but he got very little response from you. I think the sense of urgency is big. I hope you feel it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u298	I'm sure I can feel that too. Hence the request to your Chamber at the time, which you agreed to, to speak quickly about this law, because we have to take these steps together in any case. I think we will have a summer of discussions on climate policy, both about where we stand with Urgenda and how we deal with our European goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u299	I would also like to make a bridge to what the Minister is going to do, namely to give an opinion on the amendments. I would like to give him something before that, which is precisely about this discussion. The Minister says that we are outgoing and I cannot come up with an additional Urgenda package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u300	Well, that's not exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u301	Well, basically. Moreover, a right-wing majority in the Chamber has said that anything new is controversial. That is also a political fact. These two political facts mean that I was forced to table two amendments to this bill, which increase the guarantee of as much CO reduction as possible. It is about increasing production restrictions and limiting production to 25%, and making sure in time that it continues, so I expect one of the owners to stop the plant faster at all. Can the Minister take this into account in the assessment of the two amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u302	Yeah, I'm gonna try. I just need to see if I've got my paperwork all right here. I am only missing the opinion on the amendment to item No. 18, which might just come out of the pile. The amendment in part No. 9 by Mr Van der Lee, on the continuation of the ban until 2030. I have just said in the debate that our conviction is that this will not contribute very much anymore and will therefore not be an efficient use of your euros during that period. For that reason, with reference to what I said earlier, I regret to have to advise against that. The same applies, unfortunately, to his amendment to item No. 10 over that 25%. I have just said that it is not the case that the cabinet would not want that. It's just not technically possible. We cannot set different targets for different power stations from the point of view of equality of law. Then I have the amendment to item No. 11 by Mr Grinwis, but I think Mr Van der Lee wants to say something about his own amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u303	Well, finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u304	Mr Grinwis's amendment concerns the veil. I just made you a proposal on how I'd like to see it in front of me. The amendment in part No. 11 is about a veil. The downside of that is that it will result in additional delays. That is why I do not recommend the amendment, but I will inform you as a Chamber as much as I have promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u305	Mr Van der Lee on his amendment. Punctuality and conciseness I'm going to appreciate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u306	Yes, I understand that, Mr President, but it would also help if the answers were more satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u307	The bell of obedience already goes somewhere, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u308	I regret that the Minister does not address the point I made just before his assessment. If there are no other political options open than in this law achieving the maximum reduction, I regret that the Minister does not want to go along with a further extension. Can he at least undertake to look at the voluntary promotion of a 25% limit at the plant where this is technically possible in the context of the damage compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u309	I'm gonna see how far we can get with that. If anyone's gonna volunteer to do that, I think it's okay in itself. Moreover, I did not advise against these two amendments because, like you, I would not want to achieve more CO-reduction. I have explained that there are other reasons behind the discouragement. Anyway, we just switched that with each other. Then I have the Leijten amendment in part No. 12, which says: close everything by 2022. This is something the cabinet wants to discourage, because we can see that there is too much risk for the security of supply of electricity in periods when sun or wind hardly generates energy. That's why. That is also what TenneT, who is our advisor on this subject, advises us on this. I think that security of supply is a very important point, so the amendment No. 12, I have to dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u310	Can you please put the amendment to part No. You want to do 15 right away? Then Mr Grinwis can ask his question immediately, because he is now at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u311	Well, I'll be right with No. 15, but I wanted to go through the amendments on number one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u312	Yeah, that's right. You have no. 12 just had and after no. 12 comes No. 12 comes No. 12 comes No. 12 comes No. 12 comes No. 12 comes No. 12 comes No. 12 comes No. 12 comes No. 12 comes No. 12
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u313	Oh. With me, they're in numerical order, so to speak. I have two further amendments, No. 13 and No. 14. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u314	They both moved in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u315	Did they move in? Then that's faster than...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u316	Withdrawn or withdrawn uth or uth or uth or uth or uth or uth or uth or uth or
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u317	I hear someone saying they've fallen. Well, that'll save you. Is the amendment in part No. 18 still in the air?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u318	Yeah, we still do. Oh, no, no, no. We don't have 18 anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u319	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u320	I've got the numbers. 15, 17 and 19 still open. That's my bookkeeping.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u321	Oh, then there's something wrong with my accounting. This could perhaps be due to the amendments that have been amended. I've still got no. 15. I will do the other two in the second term, if you will allow it, Mr President, because I need to see which ones are and what is the appreciation of them. The flow of pieces doesn't go quite as it should. In the amendment to item No. 15 by Mr Grinwis and Mr Boucke are asked to report on effectiveness and impact after two years. That seems to me to be a good idea, so I would like to make that amendment a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u322	To make it simple: we have two songs left open. No. 17, by Mrs Leijten, was first No. 13. And if you find that complicated, no. 19, by Mrs Leijten and others, was first No. 14, then it became No. 16, then it became No. 18 and now it's No. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u323	I'm gonna have to take a look at it in a minute, or it's gonna be a mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u324	It's driving us crazy, too. It's a gang. Mrs. Leijten is so chaotic! She's gonna make an interruption, too. Soon, Mr Grinwis!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister was so dissuaded, to the last amendment, thankfully. Back to No. 11, about the front. As Mr Leijten said, if the Minister does his homework well and the AMvB looks good, then the veil does not have to last long. Then the Minister has nothing to fear and the Chamber is put in a position for her controlling task, so that she can perform it properly. So again, what's the problem with the front suspension procedure? At least it strengthens our position as a controller, and the Minister can't argue with that, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u326	No, Mr President, I attach great importance to the strong position of the Chamber. I am trying to find a bit of a middle between the speed that is required because of the urgency of the proposal and at the same time doing justice to your position. Then my request would be to do it this way. However, in the end you are dealing with how you vote on amendments. I know that like no other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u327	The risk of further changes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u328	I'd love to!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u329	...I'd just like it if there could be a response to the main lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u330	To your two amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u331	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u332	I have said that I will do so in the second term, because my administration is not quite in order because of the changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u333	In my opinion, it was actually only changes to the signature.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u334	But I don't have the good songs anymore either. I think it would be clearer if I did so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u335	The point is, of course, that if you do it in the first period, at least on the main lines, you can still see if there is room for adjustment. Anyway, maybe we could use Ascension Day for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u336	Yes. Mr President, I myself would like to take a few minutes' break for physical reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u337	Yes, you've been granted that. You have so much to do for the second term that a few minutes might be a little short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u338	Yeah, but we're moving on to the second term of the Chamber, aren't we? I don't know if you'd like to suspend after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u339	Whatever you say. Will five minutes be enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u340	I like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u341	Then I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u342	Second term Chamber. Two minutes per speaker. That should do it. The first speaker is Mr van D66, Mr Boucke. I'd like to give him the floor. But you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u343	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister for the answers to the questions that have been asked. I have to confess, I still have a few questions. The most important of them has to do with achieving the goal that the judge is forcing us to do. We just talked about it. We are talking tonight about limiting coal burning, but if I listen carefully to the Minister, then perhaps we are not quite there yet. I would therefore ask the Minister to inform us very soon about this and also to indicate what other possibilities there are for achieving the goal. In addition, I have two motions that I would like to table. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Council of State has advised to consider whether the present legislative amendment should apply beyond 2025;]] [[Considering that, even after 2025, there is a legal obligation under the Climate Act for firm CO reduction;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the effects if the Coal ban on electricity production in connection with CO emission reduction remains in force beyond 2025,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boucke and Mr Erkens.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u344	The second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the ruling of the Supreme Court in Urgendavonnis gives the State the duty to comply with a climate target of 25% CO reduction;]] [[Whereas this target is not yet in sight for 2021;]] [[Whereas there is a great deal of potential in our country for offshore wind energy and this can offer a particular prospect for the economy in the North;]] [[Calls on the Government to use available national and international corona recovery funds for a green recovery;]] [[Calls on the Government to accelerate the designation of wind farms at sea, taking into account the agreements in the North Sea Agreement, and to ensure this year that at least 10 gigawatts are designated, and to inform the Chamber of Progress in October 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boucke, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Grinwis, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Thijssen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u345	I promised Mr Boucke that. I had asked two questions at the beginning of the first term. A. How hard is D66 going to work to cut the total grant of 9 billion, but up to 2032 4.9 billion, for biomass? How fast is D66 gonna make itself feel for that? The second question: is D66 also of the opinion, together with the Animal Party, that we should at least measure the CO emissions from biomass, so that we know how much it is and then, as soon as we follow science, we are prepared for its consequences? Then Mr Boucke said: I shall first wait for the Minister's answers. Well, he's had it. Can he now answer these two questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u346	Yes, thank you. What I did not hear the Minister say was that I had hoped he would go into it..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I know Commissioner Timmermans is working on that. I would also like to look at that, so unfortunately I cannot answer the questions put by my colleague right now. I had hoped that the Minister would be able to say something about this. Maybe he can do that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u347	Thank you for these answers, but of course they are quite separate from what the Minister said. What Mr Boucke is doing now is saying 'I can't answer now, because I'm waiting for Europe', while he was waiting for the Minister first. I think that's a bit of a weird figure. We also know that Timmermans is working on the new directive you are talking about, the RED II revision. There, pre-sorting is done on biomass as neutral maintenance. I think Mr Boucke knows that too. Then the question remains. How hard is he going to work with this knowledge to reduce these subsidies? Two. Is he in favour of measuring CO emissions as a result of that supplement, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u348	I'll repeat what I said. I'd really like more information. If the Minister doesn't give it, I'll wait for the information from Brussels. It must be clear that D66 wants to get rid of biomass in the long term. Only, I need more information to know at what rate that will be and how quickly we want to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u349	Very briefly. Well, that's very disappointing, isn't it? Because that's exactly the same story as the story that D66 had four years ago. The hope was just now, given the beautiful words and the fierce intentions, that it would be different. But it's waiting and waiting and waiting again. You don't have to do that. Well, that's very disappointing, isn't it? Does Mr Boucke recognise that he is doing exactly the same thing as his predecessor? It's not a D66 policy he favors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u350	I can be very clear about that. I don't recognize that. My intention is very clear. I'm waiting for more information from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u351	Mr Boucke of D66 made it very clear in the first period that, if there is to be compensation, it should not be overcompensation. Then we're going to adopt a bill where we don't know how that disadvantage compensation will take place, because those models aren't ready yet. Does Mr Boucke support Mr Grinwis' amendment which states that the Chamber will be in a position to say anything about it at the time it is there? So that's with a veil.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u352	The disadvantage compensation is a big point for me. The circumstances we are currently in, and I am referring in particular to the CO price, are not the same as when the Minister proposed the law. I also asked questions about this to the Minister. I think it is important that we have a good discussion with the Minister, that we have the opportunity to discuss this. I am going to look very carefully at the amendments in that light.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u353	In fact, I assume that D66 supports that amendment. It means not only that you can discuss it, but also that you can speak out or that you can adjust if necessary. Otherwise, that very good first term, including the position of people who do the work and the green jobs, is worth nothing at all. If we don't have a key in our hands, we won't be able to do anything. We will actually say yes to an implementation that will be fully designed by the Ministry and no longer have approval in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u354	I would like to thank Mrs Leijten for the mini-college on the House of Representatives. I'm just new and take it with me, but what I said is on the contents. I would like to see what mechanism the Minister proposes to compensate for the disadvantages. I think it's important for us to be able to say something about that as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u355	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Erkens for his maiden second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the information, Minister. We are still in agreement with the legislative amendment proposed. Only, I'm still worried about a paper reality. Suppose we do go too fast with this, especially through the import of electricity from abroad and without knowing where it comes from. I'm still not a fan of that German lignite. French nuclear power would be much more in line with what we want. But once again, we understand the trade-off that the minister makes. I would add that the phasing in in which we say goodbye to cabbage... Again, we have four plants left. Of these, two remain open in the current plans until 2030. There's one tender and one closes in 2025. With this Chamber we also have a debate on the other two coal power stations. I'd like to have that named. I have two more motions for the Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that coal production is limited in the context of the Urgendavonnis;]] [[noting that the Minister states in the explanatory memorandum that there may be a marginal increase in electricity prices due to this bill;]] [[Whereas it is important that the energy transition remains affordable for households;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor carefully the development of the energy bill and, where necessary, to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Erkens, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u357	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that coal production is limited in the context of the Urgendavonnis;]] [[noting that the Minister stated in the explanatory statement that there were expected to be no or no impact on the employment of coal-fired power stations;]] [[Whereas the accumulation of measures, the voluntary closure tender and the coal ban in 2030 are likely to have an impact on coal plant workers;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is necessary to make additional provision if it appears that there are any effects on employment resulting from this measure;]] [[calls on the Government to use retraining pathways and work guidance pathways for coal plant workers to minimise the impact on them and local communities, for which, where appropriate, the supply of energy effects can be addressed;]] [[calls on the Government to return a plan of action to the Court in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Erkens, Mr Boucke, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u358	I would also like to ask Mr Erkens whether, in order to avoid any misunderstandings in the coming period, he realizes that after having decided to introduce this production restriction in the Netherlands because we do not make it to Urgendavonnis, Germany has launched a very ambitious Kohleausstieg programme, with a large-scale farewell to coal, including brown coal. On the basis of a court ruling, Germany has recently increased its climate ambitions to 65% CO reduction in 2030. So that fear of that wrong energy from the east is really an out-of-date station.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u359	That fear will indeed decrease over time, as soon as that risk decreases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u360	To be honest, I'm rather surprised at the last motion of the VVD. Because that has been said before, b is not responded to by the government and c there is simply a proposal to regulate it in the law. Why does the VVD choose a motion, when you can now just say: we'll settle it in the law? Then it doesn't have to be a request anymore, but then it becomes a rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u361	In this case, Mrs Leijten also refers to her amendment which has been proposed. The Minister will return to that in his appreciation. I will take a positive look at that too, at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u362	But in that case the motion is no longer necessary either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u363	In the event that your amendment gets a majority, this motion is indeed not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u364	But why do you sort out such a motion when you say that I am in favour of such an amendment? Maybe we can work on it in the near future, so that it's good enough and we can put that right in the law. Then there's no need for a motion, is there? In fact, the VVD Group, together with the co-signators, is voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u365	That is Mrs Leijten's interpretation. Once again, I await the Minister's appreciation of the amendment. I will indeed look at it constructively and discuss it with you. I will see if this motion is no longer necessary, but I would like to await the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u366	Then we go to Mr Thijssen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also very much in favour of us being more closely involved in the company compensation scheme. In my view, I agree with the Christian Union colleague that this can happen very quickly and that it does not have to lead to delays. I am also really concerned about how employees are being treated. I've been with those people. They've been living in uncertainty about that Onyxcentrale for a long time and about what's going to happen next. If you're so sure these people are gonna be taken care of, just make sure they have security with those people. Then you can continue with the owner of the Onyxcentrale about how that plant will close. The most important thing I want to say is that we are standing here for a bill to make the coal plants run less hard and to reduce CO pollution and that the Minister is actually saying that it is not going to be enough to comply with the Urgendavonnis. And this is six years after we have received a ruling from the judge, who said Urgenda was right and said that CO emissions in the Netherlands should be reduced by 25%. Six years after that, we are finally sitting here talking about how to shut down or partially shut down coal power stations, and then we come to the conclusion that this law is not enough. I find that unacceptable, and I think it is actually a gross, gross scandal. Six years after that. So I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, by the end of 2019, the High Council established that annual Dutch greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by at least 25% from 2020 compared to 1990;]] [[whereas the current policy is unlikely to meet this Urgenda objective in 2021;]] [[calls on the Government to take further measures in the short term to achieve the Urgenda objective in a structural manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thijssen, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Leijten and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to keep all coal plants open, not to limit their production and to immediately reverse all steps already taken to phase out and prohibit coal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to withdraw immediately from the Paris Climate Agreement (in accordance with Article 28) and any other international climate agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to pass the National Climate Agreement through the shredder,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-25]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u369	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u370	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u371	Thank you, Mr President. This law inevitably leads to biomass fires. Unless Mrs Leijten's amendment to prevent this explicitly, wherever my name is, is adopted, my group will have great difficulty with this law. I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has embraced real CO profits in the Climate Agreement and in response to the ESC's opinion;]] [[noting that the switch from coal to biomass does not produce any real CO gain due to the fact that the addition of biomass results in higher CO emissions;]] [[noting that the government has not yet measured CO emissions from biomass;]] [[calls on the Government to measure the emissions of biomass by using biomass in the future and to inform the Court of Justice thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet wants to import some of the energy that will soon be lost due to the production restriction;]] [[Whereas this should be renewable energy, as emissions would otherwise move abroad and thus would not achieve real CO gains;]] [[calls on the Government to purchase guarantees of origin (CIPs) as evidence of environmentally conscious energy production,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that after Uniper, RWE now also claims billions of taxpayers' money to compensate for the climate measures necessary to protect citizens from dangerous climate change, which they say they did not see coming;]] [[Considering that we can expect this type of claim more often, because more and more climate action is needed;]] [[noting the government's view that companies could have seen the climate measures coming;]] [[calls on the Government to support this position by means of scientific research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-27]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-28]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Leijten and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u372	And the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, among other things, the Chamber with the motion-Sienot c.s. and the motion-Van Esch c.s. provided that no new subsidies for biomass may be granted;]] [[Whereas, therefore, no new subsidies for biomass should be granted if they are changed, for example under the guise of grants for flexible capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude biomass from future subsidies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u373	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u374	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In any case, I would like to say that I wholeheartedly support the amendment on the AMvB's front, because much depends on the implementation of the disadvantage compensation. Then I made a motion. It is also in line with my input into the debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the law imposing a production restriction on coal plants, the government opts for a pre-determined disadvantage compensation based on recent forward prices, which also seeks to take account of the effects of climate policy and future market expectations;]] [[Whereas the electricity market is very volatile and it is very difficult to predict the impact on coal power plant margins as a result of the climate policy and the expected new climate policy, building on the increased EU target of 55% CO reduction by 2030;]] [[whereas the loss compensation will be provided over four consecutive calendar years, thus creating a significant risk of overcompensation due to the highly volatile market context;]] [[Whereas it is important for the development of renewable electricity generation to mitigate the risks of overcompensation of coal plants and to avoid this as far as possible, also increases the likelihood that, from the point of view of State aid rules, European consent can be obtained more quickly for the methodology of disadvantage compensation;]] [[calls on the Government to opt in the AMvB for a methodology based not only on an ex ante analysis but also on a substantial ex post element, so that the compensation remains as close as possible to the real development of the market and the margins to be achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Boucke, Mr Grinwis, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Thijssen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u376	Mr. Chairman. I have tabled two amendments, apart from the loss compensation. I'm someone who can be convinced with good arguments. I have not heard enough of these good arguments today. That's not just the Minister; I see he's in a missionary cabinet. I also blame the majority of the Chamber for declaring additional Urgenda policy controversial in advance. That is particularly painful in connection with the formation. We've had the supplemental affair. Many parts of our rule of law have not been able to protect people. In this case, the Supreme Court has ordered the Dutch State to protect Dutch citizens from the consequences of climate change three times. A majority of the House is blocking the follow-up to that court ruling. I really don't think that's possible. I understand that the Minister is politically bound to do so, but that means nothing to me but to put the amendments I tabled to the vote in order to get the most out of this instrument and to do as much justice as possible to the verdict that has been given. I would have liked to see it different, but that's the reality. We are paying the high price here for a policy that was too optimistic each time and with which each time it was chosen to consider the most optimistic calculation of the PBL as a reality, when we know how harsh climate policy is. That's an expensive lesson we've learned now. We should not repeat them in the coming years. That too is an assignment to any party who sits at the formation table. The Netherlands has a legal commitment to climate goals, is committed within the European Union to achieving climate targets and will have to ensure that adequate instruments are developed in time to achieve those targets. This must be done in a social and fair way. I will support the proposals that monitor good social plans for workers, because that too is an important part of the transition. It must be fair, social, but certainly also with the aim of honouring agreements and protecting our planet and future generations. I'll leave it at that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u377	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Mulder from the CDA group. No, Mrs. Leijten first. How can I miss it! I'm afraid she's gonna take five minutes on me first. But, yeah, I asked for it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u378	I almost wanted to say "eternal love," Mr. Chairman, but we can also exaggerate. I'll come back to the disadvantage compensation. I call on the Chamber to put us in a position to discuss this and therefore vote in favour of Mr Grinwis' amendment. In fact, I find it very worrying that the Minister should say: that is too much waste of time as far as I am concerned. If the Ministry had considered it so important that we dealt with this bill quickly and in its entirety, then those models should have been finished. While these are still being made and are still being looked at, I would like the Minister to take it into account that this disadvantage compensation is, of course, about those who work in production, but also about those who supply that production, that is to say, the chain. The Minister knows how important the SP has always found the whole chain. We know, of course, that there is work in the transhipment and in the supply. These are all matters that we decide by the government, so it is also logical that the disadvantage compensation should see that as well. We have seen that this grant application of nearly a quarter of a billion has been made by investors in America, who voluntarily want to close a coal power station which is still at the moment and are not prepared to talk to a good delegation of the or and the trade unions about the position of the employees there. They're just asking for help from The Hague. I have already told the Minister that I will put further questions to the House, but I really hope... I see it as a support in the back, because it's not just anything. It's about very big money, but it's also about the future of 100, 150 families, of people who now just have full-time work and who otherwise are on the wrong side, while we seem to have almost a quarter of a billion left over for closing or compensating shareholders who knew in 2019 that they were buying a coal power plant that would also close. Then I have another motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Energy Charter Treaty enables companies to sue the government if they consider their investments to be at risk;]] [[Considering that the German energy companies RWE and Uniper have filed billions of claims against the Dutch government for loss they claim to suffer as a result of the prohibition on coal, while they have invested in coal power plants at a time that had long been decided to ban fossil fuels;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that, after years of subsidies to the fossil industry, more money flows to shareholders;]] [[calls on the government to withdraw from the Energy Charter Treaty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u379	Mr President, thank you very much. I would also like to thank the Minister for his first reply. It was not quite clear what would appear in a letter on that treaty, on which a motion has just been tabled by Mr Leijten. That is why I have at least a motion and I am just looking forward to the letter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Energy Charter Treaty was drawn up in the 1990s to promote the integration of energy markets in Western and Eastern Europe and to stimulate energy transit and investment;]] [[noting that the world has changed in the years following the drafting of the Convention, for example with regard to the sustainability of energy supply;]] [[Whereas modernisation of this Convention, as in the area of sustainability, has been taking place for some time;]] [[Whereas this Convention is currently being abused by parties in arbitration cases against the Dutch government for the sake of sustainability of energy policy;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the ECT Convention is modernised as soon as possible to better reflect developments in the energy transition and to prevent arbitration proceedings from being initiated which are contrary to the sustainability of our energy supply,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Erkens, Mr Boucke, Mr Grinwis, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Thijssen and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u380	The other important issue that we have raised is that of compensation. That wrings. Then I think, if the Ministry does his homework well, it can happen within a month. The CDA therefore supports Mr Grinwis' amendment to item No. 11 and just signed a motion by GroenLinks. We just want to do this in a proper way. It's about a lot of money. Of course, tonnes must also be reduced as soon as possible. That's exactly the split we're in. But this has to be done in an orderly manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u381	Thank you. Mr Grinwis from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for his answers. I wasn't entirely comfortable with the downside compensation. There's still a lot of confusion. Fortunately, as a Chamber, we are a controller who, if it is right, is going to show up in the vote on her best side. To be honest, Minister, I do not take the argument time very seriously. The note following the report is already there from 19 January this year. At the beginning of April there was a note from "It has to be fast, fast, fast." At the moment, the market conditions are such that coal plants are out of place. They do not just deal with the current market conditions. And then a month of veil would make a world of difference in one go? Well, at least in terms of our controlling task, but not in terms of whether or not to comply with the Urgenda judgment and whether or not to reduce CO emissions, which are now falling more than 35% with current market conditions. That is just as much as underlining the importance of the amendment in respect of item No. 11. Mr. Chairman. Then two motions. I brought one with me about biomass and most of it, to make sure that there is no extra tax money going there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the short-term emission of CO from wooded biomass and most of it in coal-fired power stations is not limited;]] [[Whereas the limitation of the production of electricity from coal could lead to additional biomass by-products, in particular in the Eemshaven plant;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the introduction of the Amendment to the Coal Ban Act will not result in the granting of additional subsidy money or new grant decisions for the addition and most of biomass in coal plants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis, Mr Boucke, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Thijssen, Mr Van Raan and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u383	Mr. Chairman. Then a second, and last, motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ETS price for CO has been rising rapidly and has increased sevenfold since the start of the previous cabinet, October 2017;]] [[Considering that the unsustainable summit of SDE++ management projects is shrinking and that the reserves in the SDE++ increase;]] [[Whereas overprogramming is a proven method of under-exhaustment or over-programming. prevent back-up, e.g. at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State, and that over-programming also seems sensible in the SDE++;]] [[calls on the government to carefully anticipate the rising and still rising ETS price for CO in the granting of SDE++ grants in order to increase the pace of energy transition and to avoid, as far as possible, any further increase in reserves in the SDE++,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis, Mr Boucke, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Thijssen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u384	Mr. Chairman. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u385	Very good. One more question from Mr Erkens. Short and pointy, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u386	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. I would like to understand the following. With this motion, will Mr Grinwis not allow SDE reserves to increase significantly due to the higher ETS prices and the expectation that they will increase further?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u387	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u388	In doing so, you are proposing a solution for the further spending of the subsidies that we now have. An alternative could, of course, also be to decide on a different use of resources in the reserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u389	Like what?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u390	Like, for example, doing it back to lower people's energy bills. If we collect more than is now necessary to achieve the result, it is not, of course, like: we have to spend the money, because we have it. In the end, it's just tax money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u391	The ODE on the energy account is intended to close the uneconomic summit of CO savings and renewable energy projects. That unprofitable summit is rapidly shrinking. We are currently failing to meet our climate and energy targets. It's a tried and tested concept, for example at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State, to program extra when under-exhaustment threatens, so that you can exhaust and exhaust the resources you have and achieve your goals. Right now, we're not draining the resources in the SDE. In fact, there was a CCS project in the news with a maximum reservation of 2 billion and at the current ETS price 1.1 billion max. And if the ETS price increases, the project will only come into operation in 2024........................................................................................................................................................................................ That is all the better, but heat projects, geothermal projects, which are very promising, are currently excluded. So it is a shame that we are now losing opportunities, while there are a lot of innovative initiatives at the bottom all over our country. A number of projects, particularly in the heat transition, are currently not eligible. So I'd say one plus one is two. The unsustainable summit is getting smaller, it is good for the taxpayer and we can speed up the pace of energy transition. That's good for the Netherlands and good for our planet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u392	You say it's good for the taxpayer, so we can actually both do with it. We can and the taxpayer pay a lower tax on the energy bill, and spend more where necessary. That is actually your statement if the ETS price continues to rise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u393	It's both true. If the ETS price rises, the need to subsidise is at some point gone. And luckily, because in the end, this CO pricing is also the means to prevent us from having to collect tax money to close the unprofitable peaks, while fossil energy has not been sufficiently priced to date. So this is exactly how it's supposed to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u394	It is that Mr Erkens is bringing it up, because now I am going to ask Mr Grinwis a question about this. He's ruled the VVD for the past four years. It is a Minister of VVD House who has concluded a Climate Agreement and has made a deal with the Dutch industry, also about introducing an additional CO levy and subsidising transitions through the SDE. It is quite bizarre that the largest government party in its calculated debt by the CPB should not remove a quarter of the SDE budget by means of the PBL election programme. I understand the motion, and that is why I co-signed it, as an attempt to keep the reservations as small as possible, in order to prevent the VVD from taking a hold again while really not making any effort to reach the climate targets in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u395	I could not have said it better than Mr Van der Lee. It is unprecedented that ODE funds, which have been spent in recent years with blood, sweat and tears by taxpayers and companies to enable the energy transition, have been skimmed from time to time for the benefit of the general budget. And indeed, if you look closely at the pass-through of the VVD election programme, that could happen again, at least if that commitment were rewarded in a formation. That is certainly not the way the Christian Union looks at it and certainly not the way the motion-holders look at it. So we are going to see in the vote whether this scam of skimming out the funds intended for the energy transition in favour of the general funds will be able to succeed again in the future. As far as we are concerned, that is clearly not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u396	Thank you. Mr Eppink is gone, I think. Then the last speaker from the Chamber will be Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u397	Thank you. I had two motions, but Mr Kops put it so well that I do not have to table my first motion. So I'd love to join him. Then my second motion. I was reminded of the short debate that arose about the feasibility of the climate targets when it comes to using or not using biomass. We heard a minister who said that he would really like to know, but that it has been declared controversial and that we do not know. In my opinion, I should also like to express a great wish in the Chamber to stop using biomass and to see what the consequence of that is. I'd like to make a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister states that climate targets are not feasible without biomass;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the PBL to examine the consequences of not using biomass for the security of supply of electricity and for the energy mix,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jansen and Mr Van Meijeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35668-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u398	I understand you're new to the Chamber, but this investigation has already been done by the PBL.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u399	Okay. That was my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u400	You can just download it from the website.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u401	Perhaps you could send me a link.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u402	But does it make any sense to file a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u403	Let me take a look at Mr Van der Lee's link, otherwise I will withdraw my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u404	That sounds like a good deal. So much for the second term of office. The Minister must be able to make it in a minute or three or four, I think. Ten minutes? Then I'll suspend for ten minutes. Then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u405	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u406	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to begin by apologizing to Mrs Leijten for the fact that the administration of my appreciation of her amendments has just failed, in the meantime under the headings. 17 and 19. I shall start with the amendment now that I have to be absolutely sure and do the right thing on first piece No. 13 and now in part No. 17, the amendment on the coal fund. Yeah, I wrote it down all right. In itself, the creation of such a coal fund sounds sympathetic. I also said that the cabinet also takes the concerns about employment very seriously. That is why the legislative proposal and the call for proposals pay particular attention to this. We talked about a social plan being demanded. We also expect that this reduction in production will not have direct employment effects, but it is perhaps even more important for us here that something like this really is in the field of the SZW Minister. So I understand where the question comes from, but I would like to ask him to give an appreciation in writing before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u407	That is, of course, fine, but I would also like to ask the Minister what he thinks about legal guaranteeing this. Because we know what's going on and that it's fighting every time. Are you okay with a positive basic attitude to SZW? Is there any way to work together in time to come to something? Or does the Minister say: do I really think what is now sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u408	I have said that I can imagine it very well, because I understand the concerns of the Chamber very well. Mrs Leijten has also expressed a great deal of concern in her contribution. If I say that I understand where that concern comes from and that I think we're pulling the same end of the rope when it comes to the goal, then I'm not going to send it with the message: "Dear Wouter, can you take this off for me?" We want to take a serious look at this, but it is the competence of the SWZ Minister; hence.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u409	Of course, we have crazy block days, as it is called, with Ascension. And I can also imagine that it will be quite a puzzle for tomorrow, also for the Minister of Social Affairs. But it would be nice if we could still have a chance to work. The Minister knows what I mean by that. If, for example, there are technical objections, which would make it impossible to implement, are the Ministries of Social Affairs and Economic Affairs prepared to submit them quickly, so that we can adopt a good amendment at the time of the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u410	No, I get that. We are really going to do our best to involve you in this as soon as possible. Because if there was a technical thing standing in the way somewhere, it would be a shame. I also had Mrs Leijten's amendment to item No. 19 to completely stop using biomass. I have said a few things about this in this evening's debate. This cabinet sees biomass, if it is used sustainably, as an important factor in making our energy supply more sustainable. That is why I must advise against this amendment. Then I get to the motions. The motion in part No. 20 by Mr Boucke to investigate what the effects would be if you wanted to go through later. I'd like to give that motion a Chamber of Commons on its own. I am doing a bit of expectation management, also referring to what I have already said on this subject in response to amendments. But I'd like to do an investigation. Then the motion to part No. 21. It is asking us to use funds for green recovery and to use wind at sea. That's what we're doing. As you know, the RRF funds are in any case a requirement that they should go to this end in the near future, so I would like to give this motion a ruling on Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 22 by Mr Erkens to monitor the energy bill carefully. I have already indicated what information is to be provided and I am going to inform you about that. The motion-Erkens c.s. in piece No. 23 I would also like to give Chamber judgment. We have just been asked how this relates to another amendment. We should take a look at that towards the vote. I would like to give this judgment to the Chamber in order to make it clear that the cabinet also wants to monitor very closely what this means for the people who work in these power stations and who simply do decent work there. The motion-Thijssen c.s. in piece No. 24 does, however, put me in a complex dilemma, given the content and the political situation. Look, we have, of course, been looking very closely in recent times for measures that can contribute in the short term to achieving the Urgendavonnis. They didn't look lightly at that. Then you also see that the list of things is quite exhausted in the short term. I would like to look again at the options at all and inform you about them before the summer. I'll do a bit of expectation management. Especially when you say it has to be structural, it is complicated, because we have fluctuations from year to year anyway, so to indicate that. Whether or not we are going to take these measures will really require weighting in the cabinet or at the formation table. In any case, I would like to take the first step by looking at it very carefully and informing you before the summer of what options are still realistic and feasible at all, because it is often very short deadlines. I hope that I may interpret the motion in this way, but I cannot commit myself in advance to taking decisions on it that I may inform you before the summer, after a very intensive search, then I would like to give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u411	I would just like to record that Mr Thijssen has nodded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u412	Yeah, I don't know how the whole procedure works. I raised my eyebrows, because I was surprised that we seem to ignore the judgment of the Supreme Court and not just make sure we get the Urgendavonnis. We have received information letters from the Minister about all the possibilities to comply with the Urgendavonnis. Fine to receive that again, but I think that overview can be found in Parlis. So I really want to stick to this motion and I want to call on the government and the minister to comply with the Urgendavonnis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u413	And so is the Minister's appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u414	I just gave you my appreciation. I cannot commit myself to decisions in advance in this outgoing state. If you put it so loudly, I have to discourage the motion, but I am going to look very hard and then want to map out the options, but I cannot commit myself in advance to making decisions on them. I also made the point about the structural part of this motion, which also makes it very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u415	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u416	So if I'm not allowed to interpret the motion as I interpreted it, it's not recommended. But I will get to work, I say right away, because I do not want us to sit still and not look at anything anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u417	But then this one is dissuaded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u418	Then the movement-Kops in part No. 25. I have the impression that he has submitted it many times already, about the reversal of the climbing measures. You know this isn't the line of this cabinet, so I have to dissuade it. The same applies to the motion in part No. 26 to run it through the shredder. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 27. I have already said that we are already looking at these emissions in the biomass harvest, but I think you really mean that we are going to do an additional measurement here in the Netherlands. In the debate I have already said that I do not intend to do so, because according to the cabinet you count double, so I must advise against that motion. Then the motion to part No. 28 by Mr Van Raan. I think he's saying, "Make sure you don't have any road leaks." That's actually the purpose of his motion. You would, apart from the fact that it's a little complicated to purchase these GIs for your import, because that's what you end up doing as an individual user... You know how this system works. That doesn't mean anything about which current is actually coming through the line. That's why I don't recommend the motion. But we'll do everything we can to prevent that road leak. In my opinion, Mr Van der Lee also pointed out earlier in response to the VVD: we should also take some hope of what is happening around us. In that sense, the risk may be reduced. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 29. I think that's a very complicated one. We are now preparing for our defense in the lawsuit that is running against us. The cabinet clearly believes, as has already been said in previous cases, that this is a proper way of doing things. It gets a little complicated when I start sharing everything we have there again. Of course, we're doing everything we can to settle this lawsuit in our favor. I also find it a little complicated what Mr Van Raan is trying to do with this motion if we were to do something else with it. I would therefore advise against the motion. We are simply of the opinion that the Chamber, too, has passed the law that the Coal Ban Act has been properly implemented. That's why I have to discourage the motion. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 30, which says: exclude biomass from future subsidies. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. Grants for electricity are no longer issued. Furthermore, this month I will come back to the previous motion on how we deal with biomass in low temperature heat. Then the motion to part No. 31 by Mr Van der Lee. This requires a slightly more comprehensive, also legal-technical, answer, which I would like to put on paper once again, because it concerns the whole point of this ex-post approach. I have also checked with us very carefully. I have already indicated that there may also be meteorological disadvantages. There will also be a legal component. The ECHR requires us to have ex ante parameters for the loss compensation, otherwise the bill would be unlawful. That's kind of a long and complicated story. Let me see if I can get that in your direction before the vote. Is that okay with you? I can totally read what's written here, but it's quite a technical story that turns out to be: dissuade. According to our best lawyers, too, we would go against the ECHR differently. That is not something we want as a cabinet, can and may.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u419	So the motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u420	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u421	I think it would be very wise for a letter to be sent. Prev, so ex ante, setting parameters does not mean that it is not possible to apply some ex post adjustments. This happens, for example, with contract for difference. Also then you make an appointment depending on future price developments. One or the other pays if it's bad or bad. I do not think this is contrary to the Treaty. So I expect it to be much better substantiated in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u422	I will. It is really our best legal advisers who say: you really are going to miss that. I don't think we should want that. Then the motion to part No. 32 of the SP on withdrawing from the ECT. I've said something about that before. I wouldn't want to support that, so I have to advise against that motion. However, I do feel at home with the Mulder motion in part No. 33, which calls on us to make a real effort to modernise the ECT. That is exactly what we want, so judge Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 34. Nor are we going to grant new subsidies to biomass power plants. Then the motion to part No. 35. I can give this Chamber judgment because we already look closely at IenW and try to apply the systematic as best we can. There's always something about overprogramming, because sometimes you'll see things can't go on. Of course, you are trying to include the expectation of ETS prices as best you can. With that reading, the motion gets judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 36 of the Forum for Democracy. I think it was just exchanged, but that research is basically already available, so I don't think we need to do that again. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll try to answer some outstanding questions. Mr Van der Lee had asked: what about going voluntarily to 25%? You really should ask them; you should investigate that. This will have to be compensated, on top of the disadvantage compensation provided for in this law. This is likely to have major financial consequences. If you did that, it should be up to another cabinet, but I'd like to see if there's any interest in this. We also need to consider whether this can be done in connection with the state aid rules. We will then have to do so for all power stations within the framework of the principle of equality. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Mulder asked about the ECT. I went over that again. What do we know about Dutch companies? They do not automatically call us if they start a business somewhere, but we do have a UN database, which says that at least 114 times a claim has been filed from the Netherlands against another country. I think the commitment to modernisation is good, but it demonstrates the value of the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u423	There is another question from Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u424	Well, there's a little more specific about those numbers being backed up by a letter, isn't there? I'd like to establish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u425	Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. Mr Van Raan asked how much extra biomass would be used as a result of this bill. This is also due to the business balance that the plants are going to make. It's not illegal. This law envisages a reduction in the production of coal. It is then up to the company itself to decide what to do or not to do. You can't predict that in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u426	Mr Van Raan, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u427	We have already established this: beyond the 4.9 billion available, we cannot know how much the companies themselves are doing. We've already agreed on that. I'm not asking you to. If this 4.9 billion in subsidies is fully used up, how much biomass are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u428	If the grant is fully used? The current decisions grant them up to 25 petajoule per year in energy generation. For a moment I thought you were asking what would happen in the future, but for that we depend on the decisions to be made there. It's not illegal in itself, but you don't get a grant for new applications. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raan also asked about the Compatibility Act, Article 3.1. How has it been demonstrated that the coal exemption has a positive environmental impact? The abolition of the coal tax is an agreement that is still in force in the energy agreement. It agreed that the coal tax would not be introduced in exchange for the closure of the oldest coal-fired power stations, with the aim of having a positive climate effect. Based on the agreements made in the energy agreement, the Netherlands has taken the first steps in achieving CO reduction in that period. Mr. Chairman. In my view, we have talked extensively about disadvantage compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u429	Mr. Van Raan just a moment longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u430	In other words, that decision did not apply Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u431	I think so, but what you're asking for has all been a little bit before my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u432	If the Minister can come back to it in a letter, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u433	That's good. Fine. Mr. Chairman. That is sometimes the disadvantage when you pour in a bit later: that you also don't automatically know everything that changed years ago. We'll do our best. I think that's what I've been trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u434	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u435	The Minister says that we have talked about disadvantage compensation and then turns his paper around. But I did have a very specific question about that. That was the question of whether the disadvantage compensation is also about the chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u436	Let's see. No, I don't have that answer here. I'm sorry. I'm gonna have to keep the answer to that. I'm sorry about that. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u437	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to go to 25 on a voluntary basis. Can he include the progress of that conversation and a possible estimate of the costs in the AMvB trajectory and the implementation of the compensation methodology? That at least we're getting some progress. Maybe you're not done yet, but we're getting it together a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u438	At least that's where I want to do the best I can. That makes perfect sense. Mr. Chairman. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u439	I have another question on the motion for a resolution on item No. Mr Jansen's report on the research which the Minister says has already been carried out. I'd like to hear some kind of appreciation from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u440	That's why I have to discourage that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u441	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u442	I think Mr Jansen knew that himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u443	He'll accept it, I think. Isn't it? He has another question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u444	Mr Van der Lee was kind enough to point out the report. I'm gonna go check it out. If it is not quite what I had in mind, I shall simply put the motion to the vote. If you don't, I'll withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u445	That sounds pretty clear to me. Thank you to the Minister for his presence. It turned out to be later than we all thought. It's now May 12th.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-05-11-tweedekamer-29.u446	On Tuesday we shall vote on the motions, the amendments and the law, I presume. Then I will close today's meeting and wish you all good evening and a safe journey home. Thank you.
