ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the VAO Maritime. Welcome to the Minister. I see that you, Mrs Bouchallichh, or at least your party GroenLinks, are the applicant for this VAO, but you have registered for zero minutes, so if it is right, we will now go to Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA. Before I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk, I would like to ask your permission to allow Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party to speak at this VAO. She asked me to. Is there any objection to that? There isn't. Then you may also speak to us for two minutes later. Mr Gijs van Dijk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of April there was a northwesterly storm. In itself, this produces very nice pictures in the Wadden region, but it also produces very high waves and a very strong wind. We now know, since MSC Zoe, that large and also some smaller container ships are super sensitive to that. In fact, containers could fall off the ship in a super-vulnerable nature reserve. It is a very beautiful nature reserve. The whole world finds it a very beautiful nature reserve. We have to keep it that way. That is why we have had more debates and research. We even had Mr Dijsselbloem's Research Council on Safety do some research. We have had several debates and we have constantly addressed the Minister and the Cabinet: take action on this, because here the interests of the shipping companies go above the interests of the nature reserve. We still see a cabinet and a minister who doubt and delay. That is why we would like to help the Minister with two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that once again, in almost identical weather conditions, containers have been struck overboard in the Wadden region;]] [[Whereas, despite warnings from the Coast Guard, ships still use the southern route in stormy weather;]] [[Considers that the delay presents the risk of another accident involving container ships in the Wadden Sea area;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Coast Guard with the possibility of issuing binding opinions, "intervention powers" before 1 May,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Grinwis, Mr Van Esch and Mr Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31409-312]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u3	Then there's the second motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the profit margins in the maritime sector are minimal and therefore risks associated with the securing of containers;]] [[noting that in Belgium, France and Italy containers are also secured by professionals for vessels less than 170 metres;]] [[calls on the Government to require by law that containers are also detained on ships less than 170 metres by certified yards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Esch and Mr Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31409-313]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u5	I call Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the incident with the Baltic Tern has pushed us back on the facts and has shown how vulnerable the sailing routes are north of one of the most beautiful areas in the world. Containers with acetone, among others, went overboard. That's really irresponsible. The Minister has started a process, but it is not fast enough. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been another recent incident with the Baltic Tern and advice from the Coast Guard by some ships are still in the wind;]] [[Whereas the motion by Mr Schonis and Mr Postma requested that the Coast Guard be given the power to conduct non-free traffic guidance in the event of storm conditions in the Wadden Sea and to call on Germany and Denmark to do so;]] [[noting that this motion has not yet been carried out;]] [[calls on the Government to send a roadmap to the Chamber by 1 June at the latest describing the steps taken to implement this motion as soon as possible and stating the date on which the traffic management will be carried out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tjeerd de Groot and Mr Geurts.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31409-314]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mr President. This AO was conducted by my predecessor at the VVD. Many topics have been discussed, and also in very good consultation. I would like to thank the Minister for that. In the AO, she said, among other things, that she fully implemented the recommendations of the OVV report following the MSC Zoe. I would like to ask the Minister when the Chamber will receive another letter with the state of play, because that is, of course, very relevant, given the recent incident with the Baltic Tern. In fact, I agree with my fellow Members and no one will disagree that we must protect the Wadden region properly. That must be safe, and it must feel safe. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for her information after the Baltic Tern incident. What is the state of play with regard to the last two containers still to be recovered? I would also like to ask her to actively communicate there about what is happening as a result of such an incident, because that leads to a lot of unrest. I hope that will also be taken up by the regional media. I have one more question on the report on the MSC Zoe. You have said that you are in agreement with Germany to give these warnings to feeders when they sail from Germany to the west. What is the state of play on that point? One final question. Taking into account the input of my predecessor, Mr Dijkstra, I would like to ask whether the covenant for the issue of Dutch ICPs has actually been concluded by 1 January of this year, so that it can be returned to boats of Dutch nationality. I would like to add that an ICP is an International Certificate for Fun Crafts. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you. Mr Alkaya, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask a few questions about the issues that have been dealt with. I don't have any motions. I will be tabling a motion together with the Animal Party on the subject which has just been the main subject of discussion, namely progress on the safety of the routes around the Wadden Sea and the prevention of ships from, among other things, Belgium, France and Germany being discharged onto our rivers. During the general consultation and in previous letters, the Minister informed the SP that the necessary measures had been put in place to prevent a repetition of what happened to the MSC Zoe. That was encouraging, but as all the parties have already pointed out, recent incidents such as the Baltic Tern and the Escape ships cause us concern again. The latter lost control and the first lost five containers with substances such as fat, oil and acetone. That is, of course, worrying. Last week the Minister sent a letter on this subject, but unfortunately it does not remove our concerns. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she can already say something about the progress of her talks with her counterparts in Germany and Denmark, among others. What about until then, until agreements have been made and steps have been taken? Does the Minister feel that she is now in control of that area? Is she in control of security in that area now, or are we really not in control of that? That would be a real cause for concern. That's why I'm about to table a motion with the Animal Party. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second issue. I would also like to ask the Minister if she can give an update on her discussion with her counterparts in France and Belgium on the discharge of gases and substances on our rivers. At the general consultation, nothing could be said about this because its counterparts had only just been installed in the countries. In the meantime, I hope that the Minister will be able to make contact with them and inform us about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you. Mrs. Van Esch, Party for the Animals. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for having given me the opportunity to table one motion today. It is probably logical: the motion deals with events in the Wadden Sea with the Baltic Tern. Fortunately, some of those containers are already safe, but not all. We are also concerned that this will happen again two years after the MSC Zoe in this very vulnerable and very important nature reserve. We want to prevent the southern route from being used for container ships at all costs. We therefore see this as the only solution and see that it is high time to close the shallow southern navigation route for these container ships. We think it is high time to put economic interests above the ecological ones. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that within two years of the MSC Zoe disaster containers of a cargo ship have returned to the Wadden Sea;]] [[noting that the Wadden Sea is a protected UNESCO World Heritage Site;]] [[calls on the Government to work together with Germany and Denmark within the IMO to call for the closure of the southern shipping route for container ships,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Alkaya and Mr Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31409-315]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u12	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my first debate after the elections, I would like to congratulate the real new President on her appointment and welcome the new Members of Parliament. For me, it's a mixed company. Some of them I've been through all of the previous period, but some of them have been on other portfolios. I am looking, for example, at Mr Geurts. There are also completely new MPs. And I have seen Mr Alkaya in another room in his time of finance. I very much look forward to continuing to debate you in the future in the area we are talking about today, Maritime. Mr. Chairman. I will answer the questions first and then pass the motions. I'll start with Mrs. Michon. Like several others, it asked about the latest state of play regarding the disposal of Baltic Tern containers. On the basis of the information provided by the mountaineer, I am happy to inform you that the last two containers have also been found. That was about containers of wood fibres. So that looks good. They're about to start the recovery of those containers. I think the good news is that there are no containers missing. Like Mrs. Michon, you have all this related to the much larger, fierce disaster with the MSC Zoe. Several members have also asked what is the latest state of play in following the recommendations of the OVV. There is no time in this short debate to explain all this completely, but I can assure you that at the end of May, well before the AO Maritime scheduled for 2 June, I will send you all the recommendations and details in the progress letter. Mrs Michon asked what the state of play was with regard to the warning for feeders in Germany in particular. Of course, that was one of the questions around the Baltic Tern. Germany warns, even after Dutch initiative, container ships longer than 200 meters, i.e. Panamax and ULCS, for gourmets, for ground contact at a wave height of more than 4.5 meters. That's due, among other things, to the calling of ships via the mariphone. Such large ships are also advised to take the northern route. In the case of the Baltic Tern, this is therefore a feeder, a smaller ship, with a length of 169 metres, that warning does not yet apply from Germany. The German Coast Guard did not actively warn the ship of this risk of container loss in this case either. I will also give you further information on how contacts with Germany and Denmark are going. I can tell you that I am very motivated to start that conversation again with this new incident, where the Germans and Danes do not yet have the sense of urgency that we feel here in the Netherlands. I am also hopeful that I can get the Germans to give the same warning for these smaller ships, as we have been doing in the Netherlands since November 2020. So I am very motivated to use this accident with the Baltic Tern to get the Germans to do the same for the smaller ships. So, in general, these conversations run. Several members of the Chamber have requested that. The concerns that live not only with me, but wide in the Chamber, I have also really conveyed to colleagues. I will give a more detailed account of this in the progress letter which I will send at the end of May. But I must tell you that the sense of urgency that we feel is not so present. I would therefore also like to call on Members of Parliament to contribute to this sense of urgency in their contacts with relatives in the political sense, in Germany or Denmark. Mr Alkaya asked: what about safety in the North Sea? Is that under control? In the AA of 3 December, I announced a large number of measures. We are now implementing these measures. I think it is a good thing in the context of the time that you will all have that in the letter I will send you at the end of May, so that we can discuss it further in the next AO Maritime. Then Mrs Michon asked another question on another subject, namely the covenant for the new ICP. She asked: did that enter into force on 1 January? We would have liked this new regime to enter into force on 1 January of this year, but in its development we have found that a longer transitional period is still needed, as interested parties needed sufficient time to prepare themselves for the new regime. So we had to make the choice to move the starting date. But I can reassure you: that date is now also in the past, because we have had to move it to 1 March. ICPs are therefore no longer issued to people who are not resident in the Netherlands since 1 March. They must also provide much more information, as we have also informed you, before they are eligible for such an ICP. We have also recently received reports from Italy showing that the Italians, under the current conditions, accept that ICP again. I think that's a good sign. Mr Alkaya asked questions about the state of play regarding the introduction of the ban on degassing. Fortunately, we are a step further there, in the sense that Germany has recently ratified the Treaty. Then, as you said, France and Belgium, in this case Wallonia, will be left. That is where I must continue to draw the attention of my fellow Members, and I must hope that the parliaments in those countries will also want to ratify quickly, because there too the point is not that colleagues would not want to. It is simply a matter of giving sufficient priority to this in the parliaments and getting it on the agenda to get it through, because six months after the last ratification the Treaty really comes into force. In my contacts with both the French and in this case the Walloon colleagues, I will therefore really urge them to do so as soon as possible. Those were the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u14	You have another question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u15	Perhaps it has been promised a long time in the AA, but I assume that we will be kept informed as soon as there is progress in Wallonia and in France.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u16	Sure. The subject of degassing has actually been discussed in virtually every general consultation during the previous period. Then it is also common for every AO in the collection letter to outline the latest state of affairs on this point. I will gladly continue to do so, because we are all very much inclined to allow this to take effect as soon as possible. We in the Netherlands have also dragged it very hard, for example to free up subsidies for mobile degassing installations. We are really ready in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 312 belongs to Mr Gijs van Dijk. He's talking about "wavering and doubt." I don't recognize that, because I don't doubt it, and I'd like to go faster myself, but I can't always force the Germans and the Danes either. But on the issue of giving the coastguard the possibility of mandatory advice and the right to intervene, I indicated during the AO Maritime on 3 December that we are going to investigate the possibilities for non-free traffic guidance of container ships. I will inform you about its progress, including for the AA of 2 June. Your request now goes a little further than that of the past, also in terms of timing. So I just can't provide for that right now. I would therefore ask you to hold that motion until you have read that progress letter and we have that AO Maritime.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u17	A question from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u18	I'll text Angela Merkel this afternoon, too. Maybe that'll help, because we need Germany. I'll definitely try. This is indeed about the Minister's powers of intervention. I am convinced that, on the basis of Article 18.1 of the Maritime Accidents Act, we could appeal to container ships of this kind in the event of imminent pollution. So I'm really curious if that's legally possible. I'm sure it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u19	I share that with Mr Van Dijk. I would also very much like to know whether I have or can create this power, but again, for the date of 1 May requested in the motion, that is not going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u20	Let me take a look at Mr Van Dijk. Is he willing to hold his motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u21	Yeah, I'll hold my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u23	Then I come to the motion on part No. 313. It is also by Mr Van Dijk who is asking the government to impose a legal obligation that containers are also secured on ships less than 170 metres by certified yards. During the AO Maritime on 3 December, I indicated that we in the Netherlands made requirements for the certification at that sjorren. This applies to both shore and ship's personnel. We have the same requirements to ensure that they are well trained. For that reason, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u24	The motion in part No. 313 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u25	I'm getting to the motion on part No. 314. It belongs to Mr De Groot, who refers to a motion by Mr Schonis and Mr Postma to give, under storm conditions in the Wadden Sea, the power to provide non-committal traffic guidance, a little in line with Mr Van Dijk's motion. But I see a little more room in this, because this motion calls for a step-by-step plan to be sent to the Chamber before 1 June. Well, if I can do that in the same letter I just promised before the end of May, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber; then we will take it with us in that context to explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u26	The motion in part No. 314 gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u27	Finally, I would like to turn to the motion for a resolution on part No. 315, by Mrs Van Esch. It invites the Government to work together with Germany and Denmark to promote the closure of the southern shipping route for container ships within IMO. I would actually like to make the same request to Mr Van Dijk. I would now like to take advantage of the Baltic Tern once again to hold renewed talks, so I would also ask Mrs Van Esch to hold this motion until we have that AO Maritime on 2 June; then I can fully assess how far I can go with Germany and Denmark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u28	I would, however, like to ask the Minister whether it is possible to share with us the reports of the talks with Germany and Denmark. I'm just curious what their reasons are. You indicate: we are doing our best, but they are a little behind. So I just want to see what is then discussed and done with each other, and then what the reasons for those countries are to remain reluctant on this dossier. And then I'd like to hold the motion, but I'd like to hear more about those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u29	I can promise Mrs Van Esch that she will hear more about these talks, but I cannot, of course, give any assurances about conversations I have with foreign colleagues without these colleagues knowing anything about them. So I can't do that, but I will certainly indicate in the letter I'm going to send at the end of May why they don't want it. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u30	At the request of Mrs Van Esch, I propose her motion (11409, No. 315). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u31	Well, that's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-04-14-tweedekamer-8.u32	Then thank you. I thank the Members of Parliament.
