ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u1	At present, the issue is the continuation of the joint treatment of legislative proposals 35927 (Tax Plan 2022), 35928 (Other tax measures 2022), 35931 (Law implementing tax measure under the second EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive), 35933 (Law countering mismatches in the application of business principle) and 35873 (withdrawal of the Job-Related Investment Discount). We need the government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u3	I'm just waiting for Mrs. Van Huffelen to sit down. Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank all the Members for all the questions they had yesterday. There were a lot of them; I have a huge pack of answers. I'm not gonna debit them all, 'cause it's gonna get really boring. I will try, also given the nature of the cabinet, to get the main points out. I was just telling some members of your room that I'm having a bit of a weird morning. I just came from the group where I got a look at the coalition agreement. It has something very strange to defend this year's Tax Plan for the coming year, but I am delighted to do so. Before I start with a number of large blocks, I would like to say something about what struck me tremendously in the debate yesterday, namely that a number of dilemmas are not explicitly mentioned which play a very important role in taxation. I wrote it down last night during the debate because I noticed it like that. I'm going to name four, four dilemmas. I wanted to say something about all the dilemmas. The first dilemma that struck me was the dilemma between complexity and precision on the one hand and execution on the other. We had a small intermezzo yesterday, in which one of the members of your Chamber argued for a low VAT on fruit and vegetables. That is, of course, the right of that Member of Parliament. My party thinks that's a good idea, too. But at the same time, the Chamber is asking for less complexity. It's going to go on like this in one piece. Not only does this Chamber, the House of Representatives is much better at it. Let me give you an example. I had a bill to abolish excise duty on small beer brewers, and that was completely destroyed in the House of Representatives. Which I did understand, because those little beer builders are a sympathetic group. But that was meant to reduce complexity for the Tax Administration. It's full of them. It is full of friendly incentives from the Court of Auditors to look in particular at the number of tax regulations we have. But the same Court of Auditors says in such a report that a particular scheme is very important. Everyone actually does. That's the first dilemma that's been going on around here all the time. The second dilemma. A very important one, where we have really made progress and why I am proud of yourself is no use being proud of the cabinet and the device, is the dilemma between locational climate and tax avoidance. For years an insurmountable dilemma in the Netherlands. On the one hand, we are a small country where the climate of establishment is important and, on the other hand, we ended up in the wrong lists. I once called that in the paper with a Star Warsmetaphor the "dark side" we were in. I really meant that. I found yesterday's debate between Mr Vendrik and another Member of the Chamber. A splendid debate, an ethical debate that has been raging for several thousands of years, but it also plays a role in taxation. In the case of taxes, therefore, there is this dilemma between locational environment and tax avoidance. There is only one real way out of this dilemma, which is why this is a very good year of international cooperation. If you work internationally, you're done with the argument of the level playing field. That is what happened with the OECD agreement. That's why that's a breakthrough. Anyone can find anything they want. Anyone can say "it's all not exactly" or "maybe it's 15% too low." That is all true, but at the heart of the matter is that it tackles trade-off in economists, the dilemma of location and tax avoidance. The third dilemma, which was very great yesterday in the debate, is the marginal wedges versus focus. Now let us not pretend that the surcharge system was made up by someone from another planet. That is what the cabinet did at the time, and both the Chambers agreed to do so. It had something to do with the fact that we thought that with a targeted system of surcharges we could help the cheapest people with lower incomes when it comes to renting, care and childcare. So there's a dilemma, because if you want to get rid of it... Fine, fine, I'm very much in favour of getting rid of it, because it's had its drawbacks lately. It's caused huge scandals. But it costs money, because it gets less focused. These marginal wedges, I say to this Chamber, stem from the fact that we are trying to achieve as much as possible by using resources as efficiently as possible. If you want to do that in a less efficient way and a less focused way, the marginal wedges become smaller. Yeah, that's true, but it costs more money. I heard Members of the Chamber say: perhaps we should get rid of the employment discount and then put it all in the rate in the first disc. Yeah, you'll get the cuckoo! It's a really good idea, but you have to try to get to the bottom with more money than we do now, and so on, and so on, and so on. Finally, the last, greening and energy poverty. Another theme that the Chamber quite rightly called for yesterday. It's also true that if you're going to make energy tax rates too high, and so on, you're going to get people at the bottom of society in trouble. At the same time, we want to green each other and pursue a climate policy. Some parties don't want that. I come from a party that does. And there's another dilemma. So this tax is full of these kinds of dilemmas. The economy is full of dilemmas. What a freshman economics student learns at university and what I learned with Mrs.Prast is "there's no such thing as a free lunch." So pleading for one point is fine, but you always pay elsewhere. There are dilemmas you can come out of a little bit. I gave the example of the locational environment and tax avoidance by working together internationally, but most of the dilemmas are dilemmas. Then you have to choose and that's what politics is for; that's what we're for. Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to say this on the eve of a new cabinet and, above all, on the eve of my reply. I'm about to say something introductory. Then I'm going to say something about locational climate and tax avoidance. You'd already felt it coming. Then I'm going to say something about labor, income and wealth, and then I have a number of varieties. So I wanted to start with the general introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u4	Since the Secretary of State was so explicit in his opening statement, I still have a specific question. It is about VAT, the example in which the Secretary of State said: if we add it again, we will make it more complex again. I think it has often happened in the past that it was first decided to introduce something and then looked at how. So there's still a system to be built. But my question is whether the Secretary of State has commissioned an extra low VAT rate so that it can be decided. That should be the order. It has to be possible and then it can be decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u5	Specific VAT rates on fruit and vegetables were not possible at first, as Mr Van der Linden also knows. Last week I was in Brussels, and that is where the directive came in, which makes it possible to deal with this more flexibly. Mr Van der Linden also pointed out this in his first term. I'm very much in favour of that. There is the only restrictive case still the capacity of the Tax Administration. Mr Van der Linden was somewhat bathinating yesterday about the implementation at the Tax Office. The systems used by the Tax Administration for VAT are very old systems. They need to be replaced slowly. Then at some point it becomes possible to do this sort of thing. I share with Mr Van der Linden the frustration about the flexibility and manoeuvrability of VAT taxes. I'm sketching a hypothetical situation. If a new government agreement were to state that a new cabinet would want this, it would take a few years to make that possible, but it could of course be commissioned to do so. If that is Mr Van der Linden's question, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u6	Then I will put my question explicitly. Has the Secretary of State given instructions to work on an adjustment of the tax system, so that in the future that extra low rate, which cannot now be done, will be possible? Was that order given to make that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u7	The answer is: yes, in general it is. I have, of course, given the order, or my predecessors have already done so in order to renew the VAT system in such a way that this kind of thing becomes possible again. If you ask me if I have given that order specifically for fruit and vegetables, the answer is no, but you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u8	The special thing about this Chamber is that we are always a little reflective. In this respect, I think it is very nice that the Secretary of State began to hold out a few dilemmas, with which he actually hits the nail on the head. I don't think there would be a First Chamber if there were no dilemmas in society. In law, we try to eliminate dilemmas. One of these dilemmas has to do with tax avoidance and the like. A whole biblical line is of course: give the emperor what the emperor is. In other words, it is very good that tax avoidance and so on are avoided. Then I come to the heart of my question. Everyone has to pay taxes according to law, but if that becomes unfair, you will have a new dilemma. Is the Secretary of State going into that a little more detail today? Or does he want to do that right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u9	Mr Schalk, of course, has some kind of injustice in his head that I will come back to later. In general, you could say the following: I said this in connection with the debate on tax avoidance with Mr Vendrik, and then I will come back to Mr Schalk's point. In the case of tax avoidance, we, the Netherlands, have had the next line for many years, which is, by the way, very explanatory. We are a small country and we must take our competitive advantage from looking at the edges of what can be done with the tax system. I have been in public service for almost 30 years, as everyone knows, so I myself once believed in it and participated in it; not active, but I knew it existed and that this was the policy. I have noticed, and my predecessor has already pointed out to me, that this policy has two very serious disadvantages. The first is that it gives you a terrible bad name abroad. That bad name also translates into trouble at some point. I worked in Brussels and I myself experienced the reputation of the Netherlands in this field. It is a big deal when you talk to other countries about their budgetary policies and look at the edges of what tax can and cannot do. The second problem that arises in the case of tax avoidance is that the tax morale is undermined, if you allow a large company not to pay taxes and the baker on the corner has to pay. And then to Mr Schalk's point. It is clear in the literature that there are certain tax rates that people get the feeling at some point that it is unjust. That differs from man to man and from time to time. I can tell Mr Schalk an anecdote, which is possible at the moment. When I was a very young economist, I had Patrick Minford visit. He was about the most right-wing economist the United Kingdom had ever produced. When he heard that the top rate was 72%, or maybe it was 60%, he literally asked me if there were any people in the Netherlands who worked at that rate. So that indicates that it really matters what kind of culture you come from. But in general, Mr Schalk is right, I think, that if you make tax rates unfairly high, you will have the same kind of effects as in the case of avoidance. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u10	I actually like the fact that the Secretary of State does not address my explicit point, but rather the general debate, where morality or ethics is indeed crucial to the way we deal with taxes, and in fact with all the other elements. This includes the element of justice, but perhaps also what society still accepts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u11	I shall come back to this later, because this is also the case in the entire file on the tax advisors, which Mrs Geerdink and Mr Ester asked for. This debate sometimes derails in the direction of: all tax advisors are not good. That's bullshit, that's not true. In tax advisory practice, however, there is the question of what students are trained in, as Mr Essers rightly pointed out yesterday. It is of course not the case that tax advisers have the task of looking at the very limits of the legislation. If that's the ethical compass of tax advisors, then we have a problem with each other. I'm not saying that it is, but it does mean that if you perceive things that you don't think are right, you might have to find them. I shall come back to that in detail later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u12	The Secretary of State also briefly discussed the dilemma of marginal pressure, wedge and there came the surcharges. I need a little more precision in his historical interpretation. I have very sharp memories of that myself. The supplements originated from the political mind of the CDA. The second Balkenende cabinet has transposed these supplements into legislation. The philosophy behind this went much further, namely that citizens who need or want to make use of amenities should pay as much as possible for a house, a childcare facility, as much market prices as possible, because these services must be created through market conditions. That was the philosophy: high prices, market-based, cost-covering, nominal. That was the political choice. That forced us to enter a surcharge system that has become phenomenal...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u13	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u14	... which millions of citizens then had to appeal to. If they didn't, they'd fall underwater. That was the choice. That brought the complexity...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u15	What's your question, Mr. Vendrik?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. I would like to see the Secretary of State confirm that you would have liked to have made a different choice there and that we could have avoided many problems in taxation as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u17	Mr Vendrik is right. I made the point that, in my view, Mr Vendrik does not dispute either, that it is a balance between precise focus and general policy. This was precisely targeted policy. Mr Vendrik is right that there was something else underneath. That is right, namely the thought that you gave people bonuses, that it all had to go through the citizens themselves, of which we have, of course, reaped the wretched fruits in recent years. So this analysis is totally correct, but I still maintain the first thing I mentioned, namely the dilemma between precisely targeting your intervention and general policy. That is what we are going to encounter when we come to compensate for energy prices; I do not call that for nothing, because we will be on our feet in the near future. That played a role underneath. Mr Vendrik is, of course, right that there was something else behind that, a second argument. Mr President, I think I say that I actually agree with him. It's dangerous, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. Mr Vendrik challenges me, of course, by involving the CDA in history; otherwise you ask 'what is your question?' I'm asking if the Secretary of State recognizes himself in that. The idea at the time was to cut costs. The cost of care, the cost of renting, the cost of childcare, by allocating a lump sum to people who were eligible for it, with the aim that market forces would indeed lead to lower costs. People could then look: hey, maybe I can still get some of that supplement by looking at what is the best, acceptable price I'm going to choose. That has been the approach and in itself that is not a wrong approach. Only, and that's a dilemma I'm facing, we often want too much. We often want to support people who need it, but we also want to try to reduce costs in a number of sectors. And then it has to become income-dependent. If, at the end of the year, it appears that income is different from income at the beginning of the year, then refund must be made. Anyway, the whole schedule we've seen of those surcharges. But we have to point out, historically, that the thinking behind these increases was to reduce the costs of a number of sectors which still cost a lot of money. My question to the Secretary of State is: does he recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. We are describing history and Mr Essers is adding another element to it. That is right, and that is exactly what Mr Vendrik said. The idea was: you give amounts as focused as you can anyway. I repeat my point again to people who need it and then the market goes on to do its job, in the sense that the lowest prices then provide the best product or service that people take away. Of course, we can be quite brief about this now; you have just exchanged two words with my colleague, Mr Van Huffelen, that we have overestimated the ability of ordinary citizens, and that we may have overestimated what market forces can bring in this case. That comes from the mouth of someone who grew up under the Purple I cabinet. So this is some sort of corridor to Damascus. To Canosa in this case. Sorry, I'm tired. To Canosa, then. But that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u20	I started my first term last night by saying that we are very pleased that an economist as Secretary of State, Mr Vijlbrief, has a high eye on the Ministry of Finance, because his introduction is, of course, completely ridiculous. The better is the enemy of good and that is something that Dutch politics excels in, especially in tax matters. They want to micromanage everything to the last purchasing power tip on the results of the Central Planning Bureau, which some people also attach far too much importance to. This gives you an inimitable system for the citizen. I would like to ask the Secretary of State: take into account the trade-offs you are talking about, which is, of course, entirely correct, including the consequences for the growth of the economy and the income of the people. It is a less complex system, so a good system, and not the very best system, which all kinds of politicians and amateur fiscalists and economists think they can improve with all specific VAT rates for apples and pears and I know what. This ultimately leads to so much complexity that people no longer understand where the incentives are. So I would like to ask: look at the impact on growth and on the growth of national income and on disposable income.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u21	I think Mr Otten is right again. That aspect too is important. Let me give you an example of what I will come back to a little bit more. It wasn't that big in the debate yesterday. That is the greening of the tax system. You can do that handy and growth-promoting, but you can also do it badly. There are choices to be made in that too. Let me give you an example. Perhaps Mr Otten does not think that is a good example, but I am going to give the example. The CO levy we have introduced on industry is marginal. That means he's linked to a benchmark. If you do it worse than the average in industry, you pay and if you do it better, you don't pay. I think that is a good example of sensible policy. I may also say that, because I have passed the law through the Chamber, but it originated from the brains of my good friend Wiebes, who invented this. That's an example of something where you try to choose an intelligent design, without pushing the industry out of the country. Then you need to talk about the price path that's underneath. But it's always searching. I have said to students, I say to Mr Otten: you are in those trade-offs, and you are trying to get out of those trade-offs. You're trying to hang over it by making up something smarter. This is very clear in international tax avoidance coordination. Here, too, we must try to devise measures that also promote growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u22	So one of the best measures to do that and hit a lot of flies with one stone, also in order to solve that supplement problem, is the system that I explained yesterday. I am talking about the system as it works in England, with a higher tax discount and a correction for the higher incomes later in the system. Then people also know what they are up to and want to work more quickly or work overtime. The fact that it's just much clearer what you're doing it for, according to my estimate, "but not only mine" is generating extra growth for the economy, because one has much clearer motivation and incentives. It's not clear for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u23	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u24	Does the Secretary of State agree with me? You mentioned the English economist who asked: does anyone else work in the Netherlands? That was perhaps at a time when social cohesion here was even greater than it is now, which means that you need a much clearer and more transparent system to stimulate and motivate people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u25	Without going into Mr Otten's proposal in detail, I would like to say in general that you could refer to this as another point. It makes a lot of difference if people feel like they're paying taxes for something that makes sense or for something that doesn't make sense. That also affects Mr Schalk's comment just now. Mr Schalk pointed that out, and I can very well follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u26	Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u27	The Secretary of State began with the first dilemma, complexity versus execution. I would like to say a few words about history as a result of colleagues who referred to the surcharges. I've said it before. At the time, as CDA Joop Wijn, I strongly advised against introducing the surcharge system: do not start, do not do so to the Tax Administration; the Tax Administration is there to levy, collect and control and not to distribute and certainly not without proper control. What lesson does the Secretary of State draw from that past? Could it be that the lesson is that you don't have to run new systems if it's not absolutely established that it can be simple and that if it can't be simple, you don't have to do it? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u28	In general, the answer is yes, but here, of course, the practice is unwieldy. I'm going to give you some practical examples. Mr Van Rooijen has made an election programme for his party. I made that with colleagues for my party. In a coalition agreement, you have wishes, and then you know the following. My mom used to say when I didn't empty my plate, your eyes are bigger than your stomach. That is a bit the same: the eyes of politicians are greater than the digestive capacity of the Tax Administration. In other words, if you do not keep an eye on this, if you do not consider what this means in the implementation, then Mr Van Rooijen is right. By the way, there are also some things that come at you from the outside. Let me give you one example. The Tax Administration will probably be very busy implementing the OECD agreement, Pillar One, Pillar Two. We're gonna have to keep an eye on that. It's coming at us exogenously. There's nothing we can do about that. At least, we agreed to that. That's wise, too. That does mean that you have to take into account the capacity of the Tax Administration. In that sense, I totally agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u29	The Secretary of State also said that we must realise that if you want to abolish that complicated and not so good surcharge system, it will cost money again. Does he agree with me that this is all the more reason to use the motto 'thinking honour you are beginning' in the face of something new? I hope the coalition agreement exhales that spirit. If you do import something that will turn out to be wrong and impossible, but which will cost a lot of money to abolish it, then you will go from the rain in the drip. An extra traffic light, orange to almost red, seems to me to be necessary, even for the new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u30	I will come back later to the execution in general and those traffic lights. Yeah, I think so. I think I agree with Mr Van Rooijen. However, there is a "but." I think I said it in this Chamber last year. Looking back on the past two years, it is good to emphasise that. I myself do not believe in the model in which the Tax Administration as an executive is opposed to policy-makers. I don't believe in that model. That was born from the experience of the last two years, I say to Mr Van Rooijen. If you want to handle those execution tests properly, it requires, to put it complicated, multiple iterations between policy and implementation. In other words, the flag system is clear, but at the same time very coarse. A red flag does not mean that the Tax Administration cannot do it, but that it requires a lot from the Tax Administration. Mr Van Rooijen must wait for the text of the coalition agreement. I'm saying that for the first time today, but certainly not for the last time. He will then have to judge for himself whether this way of thinking has been used. I think so. I think we can do that now. I think it would be wise for my successor to always keep an eye on this dilemma between complexity and execution. That's what we're actually talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u31	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u32	You know the deal, but you can't say anything right now. I do not ask that, but may I ask the Secretary of State whether the plan of 50PLUS, which was handed over to the Prime Minister, Minister Hoekstra and you, is also well taken into account? That was a draconian simplification. Mr Van der Linden also said yesterday that it gave by far the best purchasing power picture: 5% improvement for everyone. I'd say, if that's what it says, we're both happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u33	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Finally, the Secretary of State, and then maybe we'll go to the locational climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u34	This is going to happen a lot today. I'm not saying anything about that. Mr Van Rooijen has offered the plan to us and to the Minister and he knows that the plan was under our pillow. I'm going to the Tax Plan trial. We have discussed it before, and this Chamber is also aware of my opinion on it. I would think it wise if there were more tax laws going to spring and less in autumn in the Tax Plan. You want to file a serious tax plan and this is actually a transitory tax plan, in which we do cutting and sticking. That has to do with the status of the cabinet. If you have a serious tax plan, it is wise to try to do large pieces of it in the spring decision-making. In my view, that is sensible and I will continue to say so. Then I'll get to the embargo. You will no doubt have noticed that this year, for the first time, we have imposed an embargo on the Tax Plan, so that the Chamber had a number of extra days for the documents, in preparation for Princess Day. That was a novel. Furthermore, I hope that this Chamber has also noted that the cabinet takes the administrative culture seriously, in the sense that we have really added all the underlying documents to the decision-making process. I did that for the first time last year. It was not necessary at the time, but then I did so at the request of Mr Alkaya in the House of Representatives. I then published all the official documents underlying the decision-making process around the BIK. Some people accused me of masochism at the time, but I like that very much. It means that the Chamber had a full picture of the official advice on this matter. I like that here, too. I'm gonna say a little more about greening later. I now come to the specific issues. I am now going to the locational environment and the tax avoidance. You see a very thick set. A lot of questions have been asked about it. I'm gonna try to answer that. Mr Vendrik asked what exactly is the role of the tax system in the business environment. Mrs Geerdink asked for that too. I've already said something about that. I myself think it is important for the Dutch locational environment that we monitor our rates, for example corporate tax. I am less sceptical than my officials, also in the context of the openness that Mrs Prast indicated. The officials have published a neat piece on the innovation box in Economic Statistical Reports. I'm a little more optimistic about the innovation box than these officials, but that's all right in this country. It is important that we strike the right balance between, on the one hand, the tax establishment environment and, on the other, the fight against tax avoidance. The cabinet's doing a good job on that. I'll come back to the question of whether that work is done. The cabinet has been working well on this, but there is still a lot of work to be done. In this context, Mr Vendrik asked in a typical way what inspired us to take another round of political parties about abolishing the dividend tax. Mr Blok has already mentioned this in the House of Representatives: if a company such as Shell leaves and indicates that this is an important element, it is only logical that the existing cabinet, however outgoing it may be, should check with a number of political groups in the Chamber how they view this and whether they believe that this will change the views on dividend taxation. That did not appear to be the case, and with that the dossier was soon out of the picture. Mr Van Apeldoorn said that we are in fourth place in Tax Justice's list of tax havens. I just said we want to get out of those lines. I have to say quite frankly that Tax Justice is a little behind in taking the things we all do. That is what I am saying to Mr Van Apeldoorn, who is now rushing forward. So I do not mind that we can do a lot more. But abroad is really seen, and also appreciated, that the Netherlands is pursuing other policies in the area of tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u35	Secretary of State says he wants to get out of the wrong lists. That's an excellent plan. But how hard and serious is that intention when Shell says to go to England and the cabinet, including this Secretary of State, is still doing a round: friends, can we perhaps abolish this dividend tax? By the way, public communication does not mention dividend taxation, but that aside. But how serious is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u36	Now things are starting to get mixed up. First of all, I thought Shell's CEO indeed indicated in Het Financieele Dagblad on the day of departure, or nearby, that the dividend tax was an important factor. But it's about the facts. The dividend tax is at all a type of tax which suffers from base erosion, but so does Mr Vendrik. The fact that you would abolish the dividend tax does not mean that you facilitate tax avoidance. Those are really two different things. We were dealing here with a large company that, because of its structure, is suffering from this dividend tax, just like another large company that left the Netherlands with its head office. The cabinet felt that this was serious enough to check again with the political groups in the Chamber how they looked at it. I do not see very well what facilitates tax avoidance. Again, it is gone, because it was clear that there was no support for it in the House of Representatives. So I don't really see the relationship with the lists here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u37	Yes, you can see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u38	Mr Vendrik is trying to play on my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u39	What's your question, Mr. Vendrik?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u40	It's all water under the bridge when it comes to this affair. That is why I asked the State Secretary in my speech to clarify again exactly how taxation policy relates to the locational environment, to the economic project of the Netherlands. I have understood all the efforts of this Secretary of State in such a way that we will stop this old policy of looking up the pit with highly competitive fiscal proposals, as we have done in the past. That's what the Secretary of State says: he wants to get rid of those lists. But then one moment comes along that you are really tested for the seriousness of your views and then the cabinet chooses the old story again. Then we go after England and then we become one of the few countries that no longer tax dividends, while at other times the Secretary of State is busy cleaning up all the facilities that the Netherlands offered to allow tax avoidance. Then that question is serious, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u41	The question is serious. Mr Vendrik knows that I take every question he asks seriously, including this one. I'm about to answer the exact question, but first this. Mr Vendrik spoke exactly in terms of the locational environment and taxation. Taxation is part of the business environment. But that's not the only thing. There are other things that matter why companies come to the Netherlands except for taxation. But back to the case of dividend tax. I think it matters if you're on the wrong lists because, for example, you have a particular ruling practice, and you can say afterwards, with retroactive effect, that things were allowed ten years ago that you didn't want. But that is something other than abolishing the dividend tax or having an innovation box, because we can have a whole discussion about that. Having an innovation box also has something to do with a competitive fiscal environment, but I think it is as a tax subsidy, because that is essentially, defendable, given the goals we have. That could also be the dividend tax, but Mr Vendrik clearly looks at it differently. I really don't think they belong in the category with which you end up on the dark side. The words "dark side" also indicate it a bit; I didn't use that metaphor for nothing. You will then be an area that I myself think you should not want to hear, because you will then look at the edges of the legislation in its implementation. That's really different. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u42	Finally, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u43	Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to comment on the following. If the cabinet's intention to no longer facilitate tax avoidance is really serious, I would have expected, at the moment Shell says to leave, that the cabinet had said: we will not go along with that by throwing the abolition of the dividend tax on the table. We tried, but we've come to our senses. We're choosing a different course. We don't want to get into the wrong lists anymore. The abolition of the dividend tax is therefore no longer part of this. We're not doing it. The Cabinet had that. The Secretary of State had it adorned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u44	We don't agree on this. I do not consider the abolition of dividend taxation to be a form of tax avoidance. If one of the largest companies in the world decides to relocate its head office from the Netherlands, I think it is the cabinet that governs in the Netherlands, although it is demissionary, that everyone admits that it is looking at whether something can be done about it. Then you can differ on whether the dividend tax should have been or not. We differ on that; that is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u45	A very good question from Mr Vendrik. In my first term, I also mentioned the fact that the Triple Demissionary Cabinet, which, for example, refuses to tackle the housing crisis, will immediately take action if the fossil giant Shell threatens to leave. Indeed, it raises the question of how deep is the moving insight on the side of the Secretary of State and the Government. We just talked about tax avoidance. At some point, the Minister said something that struck me as striking. He said: we need to look closely at the balance between providing an attractive location and investment environment in the State Secretary's speech; he is now saying that it is more than that, but at least that was the case at the time, and on the other hand tackling tax avoidance. Have I understood correctly to the Secretary of State that he is actually saying: some degree of tax avoidance is still fair, given the locational climate? He's talking about a balance between two things. So he is actually saying that we should not eradicate tax avoidance by root and branch, but we should look at the balance between tackling tax avoidance on the one hand and maintaining an attractive locational environment on the other. Can the Secretary of State please explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u46	I don't think I said this. I said: there is a balance between, on the one hand, the tax environment and strengthening it and, on the other hand, tackling tax avoidance. I'm just trying to say the following. You have to see it all dynamically. They're not black and white decisions. If you look at how the Dutch government operated ten years ago, with the full agreement of both Chambers, you will see that that was not something that happened in secret. It just happened and people thought it was okay. Perhaps the Socialist Party did not approve of it at the time, and I would like to admit that to Mr Van Apeldoorn, but it was accepted. If you look at how we deal with that now, you can see that we are looking at it differently now. There must be transparency about rulings. There's a substance requirement. Much has been done, in all kinds of areas, on earnings stripping and the deductibility of debt. All these things have been handled. Almost the entire Ter Haar report has been carried out, I would say to Mr Van Apeldoorn and to anyone who thinks that we are not taking it seriously. When that report came, no one would have believed we were going to do that. That's what we're gonna do. Mr Van Apeldoorn can see how enthusiastic some parts of the tax advisory practice and business are, given the nice reactions I get to LinkedIn. Those reactions aren't always funny. There, too, there is some corruption of the game every now and then. Anyway, so be it. So be it. So we're dead serious. I think we differ on one point: if it is the third largest company in the world, whether it is a fossil company or not, with its head office leaving the Netherlands, should a cabinet, whether it is decommissioned or not, sit on its hands and say: so be it? Or should the cabinet do something? We've decided to do something. We called around and looked at the groups' views. We have heard that groups did not feel that way, and then we moved on to the order of the day. I don't really see what this has to do with being on the wrong side of the list. I understand the feeling. But when I'm just looking at it rationally, it's really something else whether you're talking about taxation, or about allowing tax avoidance on the edges of the law. That's really something else. But I do not think that Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Vendrik and I will be able to come out of this today, because I think we differ. I am looking at the chairman, who looks at me closely because I am giving far too long answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u47	Well, there's quite a file of interrupters. That's very good, too. I wanted to ask that the interruptions should not be devoted to speeches, but really to brief questions. That is what the Rules of Procedure state, and I will maintain it. Mr Van Apeldoorn, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u48	Perhaps the Secretary of State can confirm the following. In any case, I note that in maintaining an attractive locational climate, it seems appropriate to kneel towards Shell when that multinational is threatening to leave and to continue in that race to the bottom. I would just like to confirm that this does not include continuing to allow any form of tax avoidance. Tax avoidance is not part of the package of an attractive locational environment, so it just has to go back to zero. Can the Secretary of State at least confirm that? Then we're a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u49	I have to say something about this. If tax avoidance could be measured between 0 and 1, then the answer to Mr Van Apeldoorn's question is yes. That's exactly my point of view. I really do not think the term "kneeing to a large company" is appropriate here. I really don't think that's appropriate. Let me just say that one more time. It concerns the headquarters of one of the largest companies in the world, with major effects on employment in the Netherlands. You can find all sorts of things, but the word "kneeing" is not appropriate here. We did everything we could to keep the company here. That didn't work. I am therefore in total agreement with Mr Van Apeldoorn. I also believe that this cabinet, like myself, has tried with great passion to counter this evasion, which Mr Van Apeldoorn and I oppose. But at some point, you're also running at the rate of corporation tax. In the end of the day, that's what it's about. That is the piece on which Mr Van Apeldoorn and I differ. You can raise the corporate tax rate a little bit. The cabinet did the same, following a motion from the Chamber. After that, you have to be careful not to chase all your businesses across the border. That has nothing to do with avoidance, but that has to do with your rate, just as there will be no foreign companies if you do not train your people and no one in this country speaks English. That's exactly the same thing. It's just a set of factors that determine the locational climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u50	I see that Mr Van Apeldoorn has a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u51	The word "knee trap" is a good description for giving in to Shell's exit threat. Anyway, about the Vpb, I also had a question. That is also what I asked for in the first term. The average VAT rate in Western European countries is much higher than it is today in the Netherlands, with 25.8%. Does the Secretary of State think that's okay? Or can the Vpb tariff be reduced at some point because of the location climate? Then you'll go back to the logic that Mr Vendrik was talking about. Then, as part of the establishment policy, you will participate in that race to the bottom, with tax competition. That is not the way we all want to go, I ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u52	Now I thought that by sketching these dilemmas, I had removed all these misunderstandings. I am therefore very much in favour of making international agreements on a minimum profit rate. That is 15% now, and that should have been higher as far as I am concerned. Mr Van Apeldoorn knows the same thing about me. That's the way to prevent the race to the bottom. That's the way. It's not another way. Furthermore, you're just involved in competition, but that's the way to do it. I am tired of forgetting Mr Van Apeldoorn's first question, but perhaps he will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u53	I'd like to ask the Secretary of State if he agrees with me on this. This is about simplism in this Chamber. It sounds like companies take a look at a rate and a dividend tax and then choose whether or not to leave. Of course, that's simplism from the top shelf. That's not how it works at all. Shell, Unilever and other companies are leaving because the economic dynamism here is not good and we cannot hold on to talent. Talent wants to go abroad. The fiscal aspect plays a role. Corporate governance is not up to standard with foreign markets. Shareholders' rights and so on, we have all raised this issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u54	Your question is clear, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u55	Of course, it's much more complex. We have also been approached by the Minister of Finance as to whether we wanted to do something about Shell. We said that train is long gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u56	Would you like to ask a short question and not make a speech? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u57	I have just been listening to Mr Vendrik for ten minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u58	No. I also asked Mr. Vendrik to be brief. I did that to Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I'm doing the same thing to you now, so would you like to ask a short question and not make a speech? Go ahead. You'll get a second term and then you'll be able to make another speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u59	Mr. Chairman. It can be shorter than Mr Vendrik. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that Mr Vendrik's reasoning, which I have heard from other parties, is a simplistic reasoning about the departure of companies from the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u60	I am not going to review Mr Vendrik's input. I am talking about my own contribution, and my own contribution is that the locational climate in the Netherlands is a much broader concept than taxation alone. That is what Mr Otten says, and that is correct. But taxation played a role here, because that is what we were talking about in the case of Shell and the dividend tax. Shell also had other arguments. Of course, but it played a role there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u61	A quick question. That was also my answer to the Minister of Finance when he approached us on this issue. Why didn't you see a company like Shell leaving sooner? It sounded a lot like panic football, from: we're going to call if there's anything we can do. While, of course, that decision has been "in the works" for a long time. Has the cabinet only been informed of this at the very last moment? How'd that go?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u62	I would be happy to answer Mr Otten, because it is no secret, but this has been dealt with extensively in Question Time by Mr Blok. We were not informed of the actual intention until very late. Of course, we have known for a long time that has been going on for almost decades now that the issue of the dividend tax and the structure of Shell's company gave rise to problems. So that wasn't new.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u63	I think that there is some contradiction here, because large companies leave the Netherlands. That is a signal, which is a serious trend that should not be pursued. That's a statement on my part. This includes a tax establishment environment that tackles both tax avoidance and the tax system keeps it sufficiently up-to-date and makes it attractive enough. And-and so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u64	What is the question, Mrs Geerdink?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u65	My question is as follows. I think we have sufficiently thought out this one 'and' about tax avoidance, but the other 'and'..................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u66	I've already said something about that. I have already said something about the innovation box and I have already said something about corporate tax rates. Now I remember Mr Van Apeldoorn's question. If you look at the effective rate in corporation tax, which is the real rate, so taking into account the base, we are not at all at the bottom of Europe. Then we move up to the top. That's okay at all, but that's what's going on. I think that the correct answer to Mrs Geerdink's question is: a transparent, transparent tax system for companies, where you might... You have opportunities to do something with your rates, but the price competition is now also limited. In my opinion, in taxing companies, we will see an increasing trend towards transparency around the world. I think that the bare rate will play a more important role in this, because the basis of the approach to tax avoidance will become more and more similar. If you ask me: Secretary of State, what are you in favour of, what do you think should happen, then I would say: the very best for the business environment in Europe would be to harmonise the basis in Europe, in the European Union. Mrs. Geerdink thinks so. I think so, too. It is also what the associations of entrepreneurs and employers tell us that they want it most. The only difficulty is, I say to Mrs Geerdink, that if you pursue this, you must also note that France and Germany, for example, have been talking for 20, 30 years about harmonising the corporate tax base. That's not weird, because it comes from national systems. But this would be my answer: a transparent system in which tariffs are leading and not all kinds of exceptions to those tariffs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u67	Finally, Mrs Geerdink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u68	Mr President, I still owe two.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u69	No, that's not true. That doesn't say anything. I will allow you a brief interruption just like the others, which does not necessarily have to consist of three questions, but is short. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u70	A short question, then, because in this reflection I miss the characteristic reliability, reliability of legislation. We have seen over the past year that there has been some... What advice do you give your successor in that field?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u71	This is totally true. When I talk to the employers' association or to foreign companies, I do this sometimes, and you actually hear only one thing: don't be surprised by all kinds of things. At the same time, there are laws and practical objections between dream and deed. The practical objections are that it was the House of Representatives itself that decided on a motion on Princess Day, but Mrs Geerdink also knows this in order to increase corporate tax. There were all kinds of good political reasons for it. There are always good reasons for this, but I could agree with Mrs Thijssen when she said that it should not be the case that, in the case of every headwind in the budgetary sense, corporate tax should be increased. This also applies to other taxes. It would be wise if we had some stability in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u72	I have a quick question. I understood from the media that the moment it became clear that Shell was leaving, the cabinet called in particular GroenLinks and the Labour Party. My question is: have you spent a great deal of time in the House of Representatives? Did you sing in the First Chamber and with whom? For it may well have been that there could have been a majority; perhaps not, but we do not know that. You do not know whether, if things had gone differently, things might have gone differently here. In such a difficult case, I think that is an important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u73	I have some objections to having Question Time redeployed in the House of Representatives with Mr Blok, because now I have to look at exactly what he has said about this and I find that annoying. The short answer is: we then found out about the four coalition parties and about PvdA and GroenLinks in the House of Representatives; I thought that Mr Blok also said this in the Chamber at the time. That's what we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u74	I was aware of that. But if for Shell the dividend tax is important and the cabinet prefers not to leave Shell, then my question was and it remains: is everything done to prevent it? Anyway, the Secretary of State replied. I have another question. He has been talking about the harmonization of the corporate tax base for 30 years. That's very familiar to me. I almost wrote a dissertation about the primary dividend deduction once, to have the equivalence between equity and debt. Do you see any chance that the German and French systems, which are totally different, namely a split rate and a clearing system, will ever come together? What could the Commission and the Netherlands do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u75	Finally, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u76	That's a very good question. If you ask me about the chances of success between France and Germany, I think the answer is rather small. That is because of the reasons Mr Van Rooijen mentions: they are totally different systems. I think that the solution here should come from a proposal from the Commission. That is actually what Mr Van Rooijen is referring to. But then, of course, in many countries, and also in parties in this Chamber and on the other side, there will be a discussion about sovereignty. Some political parties, here too, believe that the intervention by Brussels in proposing harmonization is a violation of sovereignty. You can look at that differently. As I said, I have been in favour of harmonising the basis for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u77	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u78	Thank you for this clear answer from the Secretary of State. But if these differences remain so great and also dominate the autonomy of the countries, doesn't that mean that the meaning of a minimum rate or whatever rate is limited? Because it's always about base times rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u79	Finally, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u80	That is not so bad, because in Pillar Two we are talking about effective, real rates. It is true that this requires a calculation and that, of course, this calculation is always complicated. That is what Mr Van Rooijen is referring to, I think. But one of the things in Pillar Two of the OECD proposal is that it is indeed about effective tariffs, so basically the basis is taken into account. Mr. Chairman. I will never start with dilemmas again, because it will take you an hour in your timetable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u81	But you've come back to work, income and wealth, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u82	No, not quite. I have a few more questions to answer. Otherwise, I'll get them all in second term, and you won't be happy. But I'm gonna do it fast. Mr Vendrik asks: what is the reaction of the cabinet to the Ter Haar II report on transit companies? The cabinet is enthusiastic about the report and sees good things in it, but of course refers to a next cabinet to do something about it. I thought Mr Ester had an interesting question. The question was how do I assess the extent of tax avoidance in our country? That led me to think that it might be a good idea for a subsequent ruler on this dossier, this portfolio, to develop something, an own indicator, to indicate how it is going. That could be a good idea. I will gladly pass that on to my successor, whoever else is. Mr. Chairman. I have had a long debate in the House of Representatives about why we chose in the bill... I need to take a look. Act prevent mismatches: why did we choose the date of 1 July 2019? I have made an extensive speech on legal certainty and the advice of the Council of State. For the sake of clarity, I would like to refer to that answer. I can tell from the chairman that he appreciates that. Mr Vendrik asks: can you send this Chamber an annual report on the fight against tax avoidance? I'd be happy to. I am already doing that for the House of Representatives and I will be happy to do so for this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. We have actually talked about Pillar 2. Mr Crone asked whether that 15% is not a perverse thing: is it not going to apply as a kind of maximum rate? Not in itself, I guess. 15% is not a maximum rate. If Mr Crone means to ask me if the Dutch Government would have liked a higher rate, then my answer is: we have bet on a higher rate there. We would have liked that. But this is what was feasible. That's the short realpolitik answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u83	Mr Vendrik, a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u84	I would ask for a little more clarification of the commitment that the Secretary of State just made on annual reporting. I understood from his answer, but perhaps I misunderstood that he said: I am already sending it to the House of Representatives and I am sending it here as well. I've been looking at what goes to Lower House, but that's not what I mean. Anyway, first of all, let me clarify what the Secretary of State means.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u85	That is what I meant, but if Mr Vendrik does not think that is enough, he must say what he means. Then I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u86	My point was that you are making a broader progress report on what you have in the pipeline of policies and on what is happening internationally, in which you also process new data, for example from multinationals, country-by-country reporting. In short, the whole issue. Also what Ter Haar says: there is a constant need for new research, there is still a lot we do not know. This brings you together annually in a nice progress report to both Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u87	I'm in favour of that, but I'm going to check with the officials to see if I can make this kind of commitment on behalf of my near-successor. But I'm basically in favour of that. I think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u88	Will you return to that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u89	It also fits well with... I will come back to it more precisely in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u90	I have a quick question. That 15% is a bottom. But I also asked whether the Netherlands would not form a leading group with other countries that are all at 30%. Those are competing countries. As captain, the Netherlands can take away the image that we are only looking for evasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u91	This was a G20 OECD initiative with more than 130 countries. You can't be a leading group in that. You can form header groups in smaller contexts. The Netherlands has been one of the countries in the European Union that has tried to raise the rate in the international playing field. If Mr Vendrik asks... Sorry, if Mr Crone asks... We've only known each other for 25 years, which is why I'm getting confused. If Mr Crone asks me whether this government is going to be a leading group: that is what is very much in demand from this entire outgoing government. But I can very well imagine that my successor is going to work on this in Brussels. I can imagine a great deal of that. I'm at the end of the block avoidance. Let me see if I've done justice to all the questions. I have to say something about the BIK. For the sake of clarity, I am going to say the same thing as in the House of Representatives. Let me first say something about the trial. We have had an indication, and I am not going to tell you exactly how that has happened, from the Commission that the Commission would have problems with this from the point of view of competition. Fortunately, Mr Essers gave the same analysis as last year that he did not see it. I didn't see that either. I didn't think so last year, and I didn't think it was talking to the Commission either. If I am talking to the Commission and the Commission says 'we may see a problem there' and I am setting up a scheme for entrepreneurs, then I am not okay with allowing that uncertainty to exist. So then I chose not to do it and to come up with something else. That's what happened then. When I look back on this dossier............................................................................................................................................................... Yeah, we probably should've checked this competition law first, but I'm gonna say again: I didn't see that problem. I saw that problem with the tax unit, which we talked about the famous novelle at the end of last year, but I didn't really see that problem. I didn't like that. I also agree with Mr Essers on the instrument. I never agreed with those who said it was a strange instrument, because it was an instrument that could have worked. I'm dissatisfied with that process. I'm dissatisfied with how I did it myself. I have already said a number of times in the House of Representatives that I am going to use that knowledge I have gained, as is also the case with my successor, so as not to fall into the trap of too fast legislation again. Then I am not so much concerned with the content of the BIK; I am more concerned with all the conditions involved, including the European competitive situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u92	For the future, too, it is important to know exactly what the arguments have been in the European Commission to say: this may be prohibited state aid. We agreed that it was a generic scheme, created in the context of a crisis. Is there anything more to be said about that? What exactly are the considerations, Mr President, because you will have asked about future arrangements?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u93	The reasoning was that the instrument may unduly distinguish between companies that invested and did not. That was the Commission's reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u94	Thank you. That is very important, but it does not remove my dilemma, because in the case of schemes such as the Environmental Investment Deduction or the Energy Investment Deduction, it is also assumed that you are investing. So I would find that very dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u95	I agree with Mr Essers and that is why I am giving very brief answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u96	That's it. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u97	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the tax advisors' code of conduct. There's a lot of attention to that and that's very good. I'll take that point about the NOB and answer it in full. I'm going to do that very briefly, because it's not really such a problem at all. In the House of Representatives I said that I find it strange that a cabinet will answer questions of a professional group in an integral way in a document that goes to the House of Representatives. If the House of Representatives then asks me to do so, I am of course happy to do so. The point isn't at all that I don't want to do it. I don't hate the NOB at all either. It has nothing to do with that at all, but it really had to do with the fact that I found the system that was there strange. Maybe that's the end of the world. I have already said something about the whole dossier on double hats, ethics in the profession and so on. VNO-NCW is working on a tax governance code. It's being made now. Mr Ester asked whether a kind of vow, or something that a tax advisor writes under this code, could play a role in that. I have chosen the lightest means of government so far, namely: I have facilitated and encouraged this to happen. I thought Mr. Ester preached a little bit or I imagine you're gonna step in harder. Yeah, I can imagine you're gonna step in harder. For years I myself have had the pleasure of being thesaurier-general in the midst of the banking crisis. The banks then had a much bigger problem with their image than tax advisors now have. There were also all kinds of developments of this kind. That's what formed the banker's oath, among other things. I thought Mr Ester referred to this a little bit, but I should like to leave it to the profession and industry in the first instance. By the way, the tax governance code is as follows, I have to say honestly. It is a triangle of not only consultants and companies but also the government. The government, the Tax Administration, the State Secretary and his officials also have a role to play in terms of reliability and ethics. I stress that, because that is what I think is important to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u98	I specifically asked for a commitment from the Secretary of State to investigate the pros and cons, the pros and cons of a code of conduct and perhaps even an oath similar to the banker's oath. I would like to challenge the Secretary of State to go a step further in my request to conduct such an investigation. Of course, this can also be done very well in cooperation with the profession. Could you agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u99	VNO-NCW is working, again, on that tax governance code. I find it complicated in two ways. They're working on that tax governance code. Secondly, there will be a new cabinet, as Mr Ester also knows, with possibly another ruler in this place. I can imagine very well, if that is the commitment that Mr Ester is seeking, that I should give to the person who comes to my place, him or her, that I would find it a sensible idea to investigate this further. But I'd hold off on that investigation until that VNO proposal on the tax governance code arrived. Otherwise, we're gonna stack up again. That's the only point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u100	If you are making that commitment to your successor, and perhaps you are, then you would like to do your own successor, then I am very pleased with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u101	I'm thinking about this VNO-NCW role. I advocate that the professionals, each from their own role in that triangle, together promote the ethics of the profession, but not only ethics but also quality. I wonder if there has been an assignment to VNO-NCW or if this is something VNO-NCW does itself. To what extent do they represent all three pillars of interest? Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u102	I'm going to go back to that exactly in second term. How it started, I remember very well. I myself had a collection made on this subject. I then had talks with the profession and with VNO-NCW. VNO-NCW then recorded the glove to make this code. That's what happened in time. I understand that VNO-NCW is coming up with that soon, as a group. I have deliberately said, as a representative of the government, that I am going to take a break and wait and see what they come up with. I would like to come back to what VNO-NCW is producing in the second term, because that is what Mrs Geerdink is actually asking. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to income policy. The debate in this area is a bit dominated by the energy bill. I have also had a lot of debates on this with the House of Representatives in recent times. A third term in the General Financial Reviews has not been shown. To put it simply, we were dealing with a sudden rise in gas prices which had major purchasing power implications. It is no secret: if the price of primary necessities rises, it is the lowest incomes that are relatively hardest hit, and that was also the case in the purchasing power picture. We had the task as a cabinet, on the instructions of the Chamber of Representatives, of reacting very quickly, within a few weeks with a repair. That is why the design of that repair was chosen. There are all kinds of questions to ask. A lot of people have asked questions about the design. Once again, I have had long debates with the House of Representatives. I didn't start the dilemma between judgment, speed and complexity for nothing either. So here we have chosen to give compensation in the form of a reduction in the tax on electricity. That was also a discussion with the Chamber, because you can also do it on gas, but electricity seemed sensible to us in the context of greening. We have chosen to help the bottom, so the image that the bottom would be less helped than the top is incorrect. The bottom of the income house has been helped relatively more. But I do understand Mr Crone, who says: yes, but the bottom suffers from it. That's right, because that bottom was hit harder by the gas price rise. But we've chosen the design of "I'm always forgetting the name of that thing "the discount on the energy tax." There's some kind of free foot in there that's elevated. Subsequently, the electricity tax rates have been reduced and we have also done something specifically for a number of sectors that use a lot of energy in SMEs. The final package has been added, which is what I call the Wiersma package, the 200 million in the municipalities. That's how we designed it. Once again, this has really been done consciously so that we can quickly tackle this bite of purchasing power. There's a lot more to say about the economy of this approach, because I was one of the ones I'm just saying, from the school clapping in the cabinet who also said: we can do this once, but do realize that if you're going to compensate any price from outside as government, we'll end up in the 1970s. So keep thinking about what we're doing with exchange rate loss, as an economist would call it. That's why we chose to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u103	I quoted the figures from your own analysis, from the cabinet. The minima are at -0.8 to 1 and the middle and higher incomes at -1.5, so that's really unfair. That is why the cabinet in the Wiersma package makes an extra 2 million, but that is precisely what I am saying: that is another supplement drama, then people have to report to the municipality. So I totally agreed with you. I didn't interpret it in the dilemmas. Simpler was: the rent supplement up, proposed and passed on by the Housing Association and the FNV, with a better purchasing power effect. So you have two arguments which, unfortunately, are not correct: the purchasing power picture is crooked and it could have been simpler with a simpler instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u104	The purchasing power picture is crooked; that's right. That's what I said at the end of my speech. But this is not due to the use of the instruments, but to the fact that the bottom was hit more by the price increase. The instruments we use are indeed aimed at the bottom. Not enough, and that is why we added the Wiersma package. That's correct. The reason why we didn't choose the rent supplement is that not only people in rental homes are affected by these high gas prices. That is why I am going back to the dilemma, and I hope that Mr Crone will not blame me. We tried to use a kind of "bazooka" that word got infected in the euro crisis, but I'm going to use it once anyway...I think the member of "Alkaya" again Alkaya compared it to a cannon and a mosquito in the House of Representatives, and that's what I've been hawing into a cannon and an elephant. But we used a rude instrument because we could use it the fastest. We thought that would have the most effect in the short term. Could it have been more precise? Yes. Could it have been better? Yes, but it would have taken longer and then the Chamber would have said:...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u106	I'm that mouse on that bridge that keeps pounding. It would have been much simpler with the rent allowance and then the people at the bottom would have been compensated, implicit, just for that gas disadvantage you call. I agree with you about your cause, but your solution would have been simpler in the context of your dilemma with the rent allowance instead of making up a new supplement through municipalities. Bureaucratic and individualistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u107	Mr. Chairman. We do not agree on this, because we have deliberately chosen the gas price because there are also people suffering from energy poverty who have a buying house. They don't get rent payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u108	Indeed, it has been a lot of times about the design. With the rude gun of the cabinet it also ended up with people who needed it and who didn't have enough for people at the bottom, low incomes who already live in energy poverty and who needed it much more. Now there's the Wiersma package. Can the Secretary of State indicate even more precisely what the Wiersma package, apart from what Mr Crone just said, is that its implementation is complex and that it is again a kind of supplemental state, is doing precisely for those low incomes, given the strong rising energy bill for those low incomes? To what extent does this still offer full compensation? 'Cause I'm not convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u109	That's two questions in one. Whether it offers full compensation, I don't really know; I have to check. Secondly, if Mr Van Apeldoorn mentions precisely the Wiersma package, I must come back to that in the second term. I didn't do that, because it's called the Wiersma package and not -Vile letter. It's 200 million, pointed at the bottom. It runs through the municipalities. We have to look out for each other, however, and I say this once, President-in-Office of the Council, that any targeted aid through municipalities is compared with surcharges. We've helped a lot of self-employed people through the winter of the corona with the Tozo. Both Rooms are very excited about that. Do you know who does that, Mr. Van Apeldoorn? The municipalities. So let us not pretend that any form of targeted income support by definition means a supplement scandal. I would like to say to Mr Van Apeldoorn that in the second term I will return to the precise design. I really don't know. Then I'm gonna sit down and guess. I think it is true, as it is almost always true, that we do not give full compensation to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u110	It would be nice if the Secretary of State could come back to that Wiersma package more precisely in the second term and to what exactly this is doing. Can the Secretary of State also take into account what current high inflation does? This, of course, also leads to an increasing energy bill and, at the same time, perhaps higher rents and loss of purchase, especially at the bottom. Can the Secretary of State include this in his response in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u111	I shall come back to inflation separately in a moment, because that is a separate point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u112	First of all, I am pleased that the Secretary of State will also return to the letter of Secretary of State Wiersma in the second term. In the first term, I read a sentence. I'm reading it to you now. He's very short, Mr. Chairman. "AOW beneficiaries without supplementary pension can apply to the municipality for €200." They have to apply for this, so they don't get it if they don't, because they don't know, they don't feel like it, or they don't want to get it as poor care. This means that an AOW person who gets €5 pension per month, or €10 or €100, or €200, who doesn't get €200. Only the people who don't have a supplementary pension, so nothing at all, get it. That's just a very small group. That means that a lot of older people, hundreds of thousands, who don't get $200. I'd like the Secretary of State to come back to that in detail. I have already indicated that we believe that it is precisely for this reason that something should be done for the AOW people. The welfare workers get it all, but the AOWs only if they don't have a dime pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u113	I come to this now, so I am going to serve Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Van Rooijen directly. Then I don't have to do it in second term. In addition to the generic compensation, the cabinet comes up with €200 million of one-off additional energy surcharge via municipalities. The energy surcharge is intended for low incomes and is designed through the category assistance. It is about €200 per household. That's the design. That is what Mr Van Apeldoorn asked. I answered that question with this. It is true that people are at the minimum. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u114	Will you then come back in second term to my question about the AOW of people without pensions? I'm fine with that, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u115	I will come back to that, but I think the main rule will be: if the AOW'er is at the minimum, he is entitled to it, but if he is up there, he isn't. But I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u116	It remains complicated to understand why the cabinet has chosen exclusively for the energy bill as a point of reference for compensation. I still don't get it, but okay. My question is another one and concerns the 200 million and the 200 euros. The group we are most concerned about collectively concerns the people with energy poverty. That's probably where the bill taps the hardest. I should like to conclude this debate with a reasonable assurance that the Wiersma package offers a covering solution. Perhaps the Secretary of State could comment on that in the second term. That must be assured. There will still be all kinds of groups that, despite the government's compensation, suffer from this high energy bill, but not this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u117	Let me do that. I will come back to that question in second term. It is actually a variant to Mr Van Apeldoorn's question to what extent it is covering or not. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u118	I have noted four dilemmas, three of which have now been addressed, despite the large number of interruptions. On two of the three which have now been answered, I would have expected you to address the questions and dilemmas I raised on behalf of the OSF yesterday, particularly with regard to the interests of municipalities. On reducing complexity in relation to feasibility, I gave an example yesterday of a municipality with large industrial complexes and its impact on SMEs. I would have thought that, in particular, an appropriate response from the Secretary of State would come to that complexity. I hope I can still get that. A second element was the marginal weighting in relation to efficiency control. I reported yesterday that there are no-cure-no-pay agencies. They are more or less abusing the current situation, as described in the legal rules. Local authorities are confronted with this. The judiciary...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u119	Mr. Raven, you're going to answer whole questions now. Why don't we see if the Secretary of State knows about this and if he's planning to come back to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u120	Mr President, you saw me browsing my papers. I think I will come back to it later in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u121	You haven't finished the block of labor, income and wealth?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u122	No, and I also have a cube of varia, which it might just be in. I've heard the questions and will answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u123	Shall we wait, then, Mr. Raven?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u124	I've been interrupting because the Secretary of State closed off with two theories that I thought were relevant. That's where I expected the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u125	Thank you. Then Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u126	I have a question about energy poverty. I heard the Secretary of State say it's better off at lower incomes. My group had the impression that the 3.2 billion that was there earlier was not better distributed, but that the 200 million brought about a better distribution to lower incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u127	No, but I'm gonna check it again now, because you're now the second member of this Chamber who thinks otherwise than I do. That's always dangerous. You might be right. I'm gonna go check it again now. In my opinion, the gas price increase is the one that intervenes the hardest at the bottom. We all understand that, when a large part of the income is needed for the essentials of life. The cabinet then made a package. In it there is a free foot that of course has effect again at the bottom. The package, given the exogenous shock, focuses most on the bottom. If you add the original shock to the package, the bottom will continue to deteriorate more than the top. That is the point that Mr Crone also made. Now you can of course say: then you should have made a package in which the bottom was as much ahead of it or even more than the top. This instrument didn't do that. That's why we missed the 200 million package. To do justice to the House of Representatives, I would add that this was done through the Wiersma/Van Dijk motion. That's what I think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u128	That $200 million, I get that. It is logical that the 3.2 billion with that free foot should be ticked more firmly at the bottom, but that is, of course, only relative. It was the same for everyone. If you have a low income, it looks like it's gonna be higher, but that's just percentage-by-percentage, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u129	This is the difference between euros and percentage, that's right. This effect should be in the tables. If it's not in the tables, it should have been there. Mr. Chairman. In view of the clock and the purity of the debate, I would like to say that I find it very complicated to make a very comprehensive speech now on all the questions relating to income relationships, sole earners, AOW'ers and so on. It is, of course, the right of the Members of this Chamber to make a point of this. Mr Schalk made a point about the sole earners, Mr Van Rooijen on AOW'ers. There's a concept rule agreement. It's gonna get out tomorrow. There are also effects on those income groups. It takes a lot of my schizophrenia to go into that now. I ask the Chamber to pass on to say once: a new cabinet is coming. We can have a very long conversation about that. Then members of this Chamber will undoubtedly repeat their view that Group A should be improved and other members believe Group B should be improved. That's not what I mean at all, but it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u130	This is your response. We will look at this in the second term of the Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u131	That brings me to inflation. Mr Otten had a good question about that. He said: what about inflation expectations at the moment? That's exactly the point. Mr. Otten brings out the sore spot there. The inflation that is present can be temporary, but it is only temporary if inflation expectations remain at the same level as they are now or when they were. The serious economist's answer to this is: they do not know it at the moment. There are people who are in much more influential positions than I am, who will give the same answer. The boss of the Fed in America, Jay Powell, said in public last week: I doubt if it's all temporary. Mrs Lagarde also said something about this. It will depend very much on whether wage increases go along with inflation. Then the question will be: does this turn into higher inflation expectations? Of course it is not allowed, but I am going to make one comment on monetary policy. From my good friend Korteweg, professor of monetary economics, of whom I have never had a lecture but with whom I do sit in a club of former thesauriers, I have always learned the following. If you pursue such a broad monetary policy for years, it will eventually come out in the form of inflation. The fact that there is now, also through supply restrictions, inflation is not strange. One more comment and I will stop talking about inflation, because I am not allowed to say any of that. For many years, of course, it was the intention of the monetary authorities to raise inflation. And then it happens every now and then everyone says: oh, inflation is going up! Yeah, it's a bit much now, but that's because of the supply restrictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u132	Before I give the floor to Mr Otten, I would like to suspend at 12.30 p.m. for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u133	Short, Mr. Chairman. In short, I also studied at the time. I don't know the good guy myself. We talked about the anchoring. They say price stability or a percentage. But there are very recent studies, such as last week's Banque de France, that if those expectations go wild, the echoing will no longer work. This inflation has indeed been a goal of enlargement. I've said here before that inflation is like Heinz ketchup: you're shaking and nothing comes out, and then in one go your whole plate is full. That's a dangerous moment. If that were to happen, then what would the Dutch Ministry of Finance do? That is my question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u134	An interesting question, but it is a question to which Mr Otten very well knows the answer. The Dutch Government has no views on inflation. That is up to the monetary authorities in Frankfurt. Last week you saw an example of how a monetary authority reacts, on the basis of the boss of the Fed, Powell, who indeed indicated that he feared that this might not be transitory, not temporary. In doing so, he tries to send a signal to the markets: friends, beware, if this goes on too long, I have to step on the brakes. That's what he says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u135	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u136	Yes, but should we not, now that interest rates are still zero to negative, if hedges are to borrow against this risk for a long time and then, with the euros infused, they are going to repay or refinance again? If the money's free, you'd better borrow it. You shouldn't borrow if it costs 10% later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u137	Mr Otten's words really raise my conscience. I am not going to answer this, given that there is a government agreement in which there are all kinds of intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u138	With all the compassion for the impossible position in which the Secretary of State now sits, have I understood correctly that in the first term he does not want to go into the issues of the elderly and the earners at all, and that this should be done in the second term? Well, then I have a basic question, if he didn't come back to it in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u139	Mr. Chairman. I have indicated to Mr Schalk that I do not intend to do so. Everything I am going to say about this is either contrary to current government policy or to the future cabinet. The room really needs to let me do that for a while. Otherwise it will be too complicated a debate. I'm gonna have to talk to flour in the mouth. I can say anything about what I think about income relationships in the Netherlands, but it doesn't matter at all what I think. I'm in a position here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u140	There is full understanding of the fact that the Secretary of State is in office. This Chamber is also in a certain position and must today prepare a judgment on the Tax Plan 2022. We cannot say now: let us suspend the debate because we will soon know what kind of coalition agreement is in place. Because even then, we'll have to vote next week. If the Secretary of State no longer responds to this question, then, because we also discussed the political choice and the moral choice this morning, for the first time, I have at least this basic question: does the Secretary of State still think that the difference in taxation between one and two earners, including marginal pressure, is fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u141	The answer to that is as follows. I represent the cabinet here. The cabinet has laid down a tax plan and there follows an income picture. Mr Schalk is right about that. It is clear that he thinks of this income picture and he is actually going through the whole cabinet period that only earners, in my words, are getting away from two-earers. Yesterday there was an interesting discussion with Mrs Prast, but I think you were talking tremendously along each other. Mrs Prast tried to make the point that the actual tax burden on a earner may be smaller than you think, because production is also made in the household of a earner who is not taxed. I think she was trying to make that point. I think I'm just a mediator in a conversation you had. So there's a lot to say about that. But I fully defend the current income picture, as stated in the Tax Plan. If you want to provoke me to say something about the future, I find that really very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u142	Last point, very briefly. The Central Statistical Office stated two or three years ago that the limits of justice had been reached. After that, things got worse. My question is not to comment on the future, but on the present. Does the Secretary of State, who is now responsible, still think it is fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u143	I find that very complicated. The cabinet makes a proposal for a tax plan with an income picture that goes with it. The cabinet, and I as the representative of that cabinet, considers that by definition fair. If Mr Schalk is going to point out precise points, as he did in his amount, for example the fact that there is more poverty among single-earners and what he sees as a consequence, then I can go a long way with him. That should be a point of interest. But then I start to shift a little bit to what I suspect might be in a piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u144	Thank you. It's exactly 12:30 now. I am now going to suspend, as announced, with apologies to those who still want to interrupt. We can do that after lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u145	I'm now suspending for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
