ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal Amendment of the Temporary Act on combating terrorism in connection with extending its duration. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security. We're about to start with the first term of office. Ten members have signed up for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u2	First of all, I am going to give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek, who is going to speak on behalf of the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Society generally understands the temporary surrender of freedoms in times of crisis, such as a high terrorist threat or a pandemic." This is what I said two weeks ago during the treatment of the JenV budget. I added that this would require trust in the State and the State's promise that such emergency measures would be proportionate and temporary. That is precisely what is lacking in this bill. Temporary measures become part of the existing toolbox. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say in advance that Volt recognises that there are terrorist threats and that it is necessary to take appropriate action, including preventive action, because we want to prevent terrorist threats that result in terrorist attacks. But having said that, I would like to talk about the content. First of all, I note that the Minister chooses to extend the law by five years, with an evaluation after two and a half years, because in his view that is the only way to properly evaluate the law. However, the Minister has already had experience with the law since 2017. Please note that we are talking here about the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism. My question to the Minister is therefore: why can we not evaluate each year on the basis of experience up to that point, also allowing the possibility to withdraw the law in the interim if the law is no longer proportionate? Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the next point, proportionality. In doing so, we must distinguish between the proportionality of the law as a whole and the proportionality of the measures to be imposed individually. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers that, in particular, the proportionality of the law as a whole is not sufficiently substantiated. As the Council of State pointed out, the WODC concluded on a number of measures that were less effective and that their continuation is not sufficiently motivated. Proportionality is sometimes confused with efficiency. I dare to believe that this law can be effective in some cases, but I do not think that the powers conferred on the Minister by the law are proportionate to the infringement they can make of the rights of Dutch citizens. Mr. Chairman. I am not suggesting that this Minister could not deal with these powers, because I believe that the Minister is an honourable person. But the fact is that the powers are not granted to the person, but to his office. You must therefore also take into account a worst case scenario in which the powers are made available to less honest people, with all the risks involved. A period of five years is beyond cabinet. Moreover, you should not rely on the goodness of rulers, but on the critical legislator who makes good laws. Mr President, this is my final point on proportionality. I wonder whether sufficient consideration has been given to whether it is proportionate to give the Minister the power to impose administrative measures when there is no criminally culpable behaviour. This law creates wider scope for lighter suspicions, which may affect certain groups in particular. That is why I would like to ask the Minister to respond. Mr. Chairman. The Minister will now be aware of the importance Volt attaches to good supervision, because good supervision can protect citizens' rights. The bill gives the Minister the power to process special personal data and data of a criminal nature in the context of national security, but does not provide adequate safeguards. In the context of national security, state-secret information can be processed and cannot always be shared publicly. Without proper safeguards, the monitoring of the exercise of powers in the law is insufficient. That's why I have the following questions. How can the supervision of the law and the processing of personal data be strengthened during the duration of the law and afterwards? And why does the Minister not place the supervision of the use of the powers under this law within the framework of the Wiv and thus under the independent supervision of the CTIVD? After all, it is a matter of national security. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a number of questions to ask to gain more insight into the necessity of extending this law. The Minister states that there is currently no concrete evidence that persons in the Netherlands are preparing a terrorist attack. The threat of online accelerationist networks from the right-wing extremist angle is there. In addition, there are sometimes psychosocial or psychological problems involved. My question to the Minister is whether it would not be more logical to focus more on digital means and to focus more on helping vulnerable people rather than imposing restrictive measures. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u4	Thank you very much for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Michon-Derkzen. She speaks on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The current threat level is significant. According to our services, there are currently people in the Netherlands who radicalise, or are highly radicalised, and may pose a threat to national security. The jihadist movement in the Netherlands remains an important element in this, although the measures in the proposal can also see other threats. In doing so, the threat level may increase rapidly, at a rate which the legislator can't fix. The availability of a strong toolbox is crucial in this respect. In my group's view, the measures contained in the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism have contributed to the protection of national security. As far as I am concerned, this has achieved the objective of the law. This is an important reason to extend the duration of action. I myself experienced the functioning of this law as a councilman in The Hague, with then mayor Van Aartsen. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for the implementation of the Van Toorenburg/Segers motion, which my group has also supported, in which the cabinet has been asked to extend this temporary law for five years. Finally, Mr President, I have a question. The Minister indicated that this administrative approach could also be used to combat right-wing extremistism. Can he color that in with a fictional case? What am I supposed to think about? I ask this because you often see the threat from that angle in an online environment; it comes from the keyboard. How can this law work in that? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u6	Thank you for your input. Mr Van Nispen has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u7	If I have heard correctly, Mrs Michon said: I have seen the effective functioning of this law in practice. Maybe she can tell us a little bit more about that. One of the critical questions I am going to ask the government is: what exactly shows that effectiveness? I would like to put that question to Mrs Michon. Because from the WODC report it cannot be properly established. So what has it seen in practice which would show the effectiveness of this law and the need for the extension?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u8	I find, and so does the WODC, that this law has been used in seven cases. Then you must imagine that there are seven cases where there have been behaviours related to terrorist activities and could pose a direct threat to national security. In these seven cases, a whole file has been built up, an administrative report, and that has led to one of the five measures. That is also stated in the WODC report; that is exactly what Mr Van Nispen knows. In these cases, therefore, a preventive measure has been implemented to counter a threat to national security. And I already know Mr Van Nispen's follow-up question. He's gonna say, "How do you know when preventive was actually necessary?" Of course, this is always the case with preventive measures: you take them with a view to preventing worse. What if you hadn't taken those measures? That's what the WODC says, by the way. Then you couldn't have known if evil had actually occurred. But my group believes it is very important that you should be able to deal with such a threat, because that is what we are talking about; it is a threat to national security and it is also a threat to national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u9	One of my follow-up questions has just been raised by Mrs Michon, so that saves me. I do believe that the use of the law does not say much about its effectiveness. Then I have one further question: for example, the withdrawal of subsidies and licences, etc., has never even been used. Does that indicate that this would not be effective? Or does Mrs. Michon say: that's convenient to have, because you never know?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u10	Like Mr Van Nispen, I note that the possibility of destroying decisions, such as subsidies, has not been used. I would not say that we should hang it on the willows and that it is not necessary. I do indeed think that is the answer that Mr Van Nispen has already put in my mouth that this could be an instrument that could be used in the event of a possible threat. Visible behaviour and the threat to national security still apply. I would therefore like to include that instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u11	Thank you for your answer and your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber will be Mr Markuszower, who will speak on behalf of the Party for Freedom. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a world where a quarter of the world's population is Muslim, some 2 billion, the free West cannot afford to be naive about terrorism. Everyone who loves freedom must always arm themselves against this threat. The Netherlands cannot, of course, be left behind. A large percentage of all Muslims justify the most repulsive acts of terrorism, such as suicide attacks. According to the AIVD we have thousands of ticking time bombs in the Netherlands. Because our cabinet refuses to close our borders to Islamic immigrants from the most radical Islamic countries, the actual numbers of potential terrorists here on land are many times greater. These jihadists are prepared to attack women, children, our infrastructure, schools, hospitals, parades and meetings. Absolute evil must be eradicated absolutely and uncompromisingly. Terrorists must therefore be fought hard. They must be constantly hunted and, if possible, eliminated preventively. Terror must be eradicated at the root. Terrorist attacks disrupt society. All measures to prevent and punish terrorism must be in our arsenal. It's impossible to keep shadowing all those jihadists and potential attackers. Therefore, the PVV has submitted an initiative law to introduce administrative detention. Administrative detention prevents terrorists, jihadists and sympathizers of the jihad from getting out of sight of the intelligence and security services. To this end, in administrative detention cells, they are subject to a special form of detention, which is not a prison sentence imposed on a criminal basis, but an administrative measure. The package of measures we are discussing today in the context of the extension of the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism is far from sufficient to mitigate the enormous threat of terrorist attacks. It is good that the Netherlands wants to extend this law. In the toolbox of our Minister of Justice and Security, this law contains the obligation to notify, the ban on territory, the ban on contact and the ban on exit. These are all fine measures, but not nearly enough. For what if the jihadi do not comply with the imposed measures? Putting on an anklet to enforce the ban on territory and the obligation to notify will not help. In fact, ankle tyres are cut; they are cut at the assembly line in the Netherlands, also by terrorists. Just look at the terrorist who tried to assassinate the Rotterdam marathon. He had an anklet on, and he almost did it anyway. They either get cut or they don't work properly. An area ban sounds nice, but as far as we are concerned such a ban applies to the whole of the Netherlands, because what difference does it make to the jihadi in which region he or she is attacking? The PVV believes that no risk should be taken with these dangerous figures. In addition to the administrative detention proposed by us, the penalty for committing terrorist attacks or participating in a terrorist organisation must be increased to life imprisonment. If you are a terrorist, you must be locked up forever. That offers maximum protection. Deradicalisation programmes can then be given in Disneyland. In the Netherlands this is mainly a waste of money. A lifetime prison sentence guarantees much more safety than floating, left-wing goat woollen socks programs given by GroenLinks-like types. Because the perpetrators of terrorist crimes are ideologically motivated, we need to take much more counter-terrorism measures. Only uncompromising retaliation against the terrorist and his or her loved ones offers maximum protection against terrorist attacks. Unfortunately, the Netherlands is stuck with politicians who prefer to cuddle with terrorists rather than tackle them and lock them up. Unfortunately, we even have a Minister of Justice and Security who has brought terrorists who have committed the most horrific crimes in Islamic State back to the Netherlands voluntarily and without obligation, and then barely punishes them. Normal security ministers do everything they can to eliminate terrorists, but ours arranges a plane and brings them back to the Netherlands with all the danger of that. Mr. Chairman. In the context of'something is better than nothing' our group will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u13	Thank you for your input. The next speaker from the Chamber will be Mrs Ellemeet, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "We as legislator and co-legislator must protect our freedoms. The crucial question of conscience is, of course, how to do that. For GroenLinks that is a big dilemma. For us, the problem lies precisely in the fact that our freedoms must not be too lightly damaged, even if the aim of this attack is to protect the democratic rule of law with these freedoms." Mr. Chairman. These words spoke my predecessor Liesbeth van Tongeren in the treatment of the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism on 28 April 2016. I have been dived into the Acts to get a better view of the political debate on the law now before us for extension. Liesbeth van Tongeren rightly had many critical questions about the law. She wanted to be clear about the shortcomings of the existing legal instruments. The Council of State also wondered at that time. The opinions, including those of the College of Human Rights, read that there would be hardly any cases that would really threaten national security and would not be covered or could be covered by the extended criminal law measures. When reading the Acts of the Law Treatment in 2016, I was also impressed by the sharp analysis made by Mrs Swinkels, then spokesperson of D66. According to the law which the Cabinet now intends to extend, restrictions on freedom can be imposed if it is necessary to protect national security and if the person concerned can be associated with or support terrorist activities. Mrs Swinkels referred to these terrorist activities as a "vague criterion." A definition of these activities is lacking. This is indeed very problematic, because restrictions on fundamental freedoms are permissible in a rule of law only if there is a legal basis for it and it is sufficiently foreseeable for citizens to see what behaviour is covered by this law. But there is no need for proof of these administrative measures. The usual criteria, such as legal and convincing evidence, serious objections, suspicions or indications, do not apply. The question arises as to whether it is acceptable under the rule of law to impose restrictions on freedom based on vague criteria on those against whom there is no suspicion or even evidence that they are involved in terrorism. A solution to this lack of a review of a framework lies in the role of a judge. Allow a court to examine in advance whether the proposed measures are appropriate, as in the United Kingdom the Supreme Court should authorise similar measures. In 2016, GroenLinks submitted an amendment together with D66 to provide for a request for judicial authorisation for the imposition of administrative measures. I now retable that amendment, because it remains an essential element in such a law for GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. This minister was not yet a minister in 2016, in the process of handling the law. Maybe he, like me, went back to the Acts. I am curious to see how he reflects on the points that I have now raised in that debate. I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the amendment that I have just tabled. But that's not what we're here for, as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Not only do the same dilemmas as in 2016. There is now a new situation and there is new information on how the law has worked so far. Let me start with that new situation. The reason for the law in 2016 was the high level of threat. This is reflected in the explanatory memorandum. It states that the need to take the proposed measures stems from the threat posed by jihadism, the threat that had significance both at global level and for the national security of the Netherlands. Reference was made to the Threat Picture of Terrorism number 37. In that Threat Statue 37, the threat level was set at substantial, at level 4 of 5. The I.D. for the Temporary Measures Act was the high threat. But now we read in the note following the report that this level of threat is not necessarily decisive for the extension of the temporary law. I quote: "What is important, however, is that the level of the terrorist threat cannot be fully assimilated to the need for the temporary law. At a lower level of threat, it may also be necessary, where appropriate, to impose a measure on a person who may be associated with or support terrorist activities as a result of his behaviour." Mr. Chairman. My group considers this turn in the legitimation of the extension of the temporary law to be very problematic. This is exactly the sliding bowl or the soap slope that experts often warn about. The temporary restriction of fundamental rights, of freedoms, can lead to blurring of standards, to recourse by bodies to restricting fundamental rights, and to a shift of requirements and criteria under review. We are now in the middle of such a discussion. At a time when the threat is less serious, GroenLinks believes that this must be taken into account when extending or not this temporary law, which restricts fundamental rights. Too easily ignored by the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. It is not just my group that is critical. The Advisory Section of the Council of State is also extremely critical. For example, the Section points out that it is not possible to examine empirically whether the temporary law prevents terrorist attacks or crimes or that the level of threat is reduced by the use of the temporary law. They point out that the WODC concludes that the expectations of the functioning of the temporary law have largely not been met; the expectations have largely not been met. For example, the obligation to notify has not led to effective control of compliance with the other administrative measures provided for in the temporary law. Given the possibilities of contact offered by the Internet, the presumption of the prohibition of contact by the legislator is not correct. The ban has had some effect, but there are concerns about relocation effects. In short, the great doubts about the proportionality of the law that GroenLinks already had in 2016 were explained very well by Mrs Koekkoek, who explained the difference between efficiency and proportionality even greater after these findings. My group also considers it very serious, like the Council of State, that the presentation of the findings of the evaluation report in the explanatory memorandum is extremely one-sided. The only comment that is mentioned is the observation that the WODC has concluded on a number of measures that they have been less effective in parts. That's the understatement of the year. This simply cannot be done, shopping out of an evaluation to reach the desired outcome? This gives little confidence. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that my group is very, very critical and looks forward to the Minister's response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u15	Thank you for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber will be Mrs Van der Werf. She will speak to you on behalf of Democrats 66 after the microphone has been cleaned again. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u16	Mr. Chairman. My first legal treatment as a MP, and what kind of a guy. A law containing a number of measures to combat terrorism and make Dutch society safer. Who doesn't want that? If you looked at this debate without any knowledge of this law, you might think so. But as a parliamentarians, you are also a co-legislator, and that brings with it the duty and responsibility to take a serious look at this. Effective measures to promote safety? Yeah, I'd love to. But false security, thank you D66 for that. And that seems to be the case here. The WODC considers that the Temporary Law on administrative measures terrorism did not contribute to a process of deradicalisation and that the measures did not lead to better contact or link with the persons concerned or contributed to greater knowledge of the motives and behaviours of those persons. That is quite something, because what have these measures led to? I'll walk them by one by one. The obligation to notify leads to more frequent contact, but does not lead to more visibility or influence on the activities of the person who is required to notify. In two cases, the ban has led to the inability to enter a given area and has therefore had some effect in that sense, but at the same time it also points to the risk of a transfer effect to another area or online; it is feared that the ban will be counterproductive. Then there's the restraining order. That was only imposed once. This has led to the fact that there has been no physical contact with the person concerned, but the measure has not given any influence on or insight into the online world. The exit ban, too, has only been imposed twice in the meantime, as there are returners rather than extra-travelers. Finally, the withdrawal or refusal of decisions. That measure has not been used once since the law came into force five years ago. On how can it be concluded that this measure has an effect, the Minister does not reply to the report in the note. I have therefore tabled an amendment to remove this measure from the law. In total, only 11 measures have been imposed on only seven persons, while the measures have been considered dozens of times. Why is that important? So they take time and commitment from our security people. The WODC even warns: "It is good to remember that the use of the law requires a large time investment and time pressure from officials involved in decision-making and implementation, both at national level in the NCTV and at local level in partners of the case consultation." In response to questions about the effectiveness of the measures that have been imposed, the Minister states that they cannot actually be demonstrated. How can he be so sure about the necessity of this law? I'd like a response from the Minister. The need was mainly justified in the introduction of the law on the basis of the threat picture. Even now, in the explanatory statement, the Minister states that "the current threat image also gives rise to the preservation of the Twbmt." But the threat level has gone from 4, or substantially, to 3, or significantly. Not only the level, but also the kind of threat has changed, for example travellers versus returners, or, as the NCTV says: incomparable, these two periods. The Council of State is right to state that the existence of such measures is not sufficiently substantiated. If the threat picture gives rise to the law, how can it be that in the case of a lower level of threat and an incomparable threat picture, exactly the same measures are proposed? Should the infringement of these measures not end in proportion to the level of threat at which it is based? I would also like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u17	Mrs Kuik wishes to interrupt you on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u18	I am particularly curious to see how Mrs Van der Werf looks at the question of what criminal means are sufficient to tackle, for example, hate preachers and protect young people from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u19	There are several ways in criminal law to get to work on this. That's actually exactly the cup I'm coming to. I would therefore ask Mrs Kuik to keep that question, because I think I will answer it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u20	The ban is, of course, one of the measures you can use to protect young people from those hate preachers. I hear Mrs Van der Werf saying 'proportional', but Mrs Van der Werf also says that there has been a number of cases in which it has been considered to be used but it has not happened. Isn't that proportional?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u21	That's another question. It is good that this proportionality is sought. As a city council member in The Hague, I have also experienced the specific example you mention, the ban on territory. While you temporarily protect a vulnerable neighbourhood or part of the city from someone, at the same time you do not prevent activities from continuing online.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u22	I think we can agree that online is a point. My question is therefore whether Mrs Van der Werf would like to go further in order to deal with this online. The CDA sees the imposition of an area ban on hate preachers as an instrument to protect young people. Online, indeed, it is quite inadequate. That's what they can do. Does Mrs Van der Werf see any possibility of supplementing the law there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u23	I think the law already offers a lot of possibilities. Criminal law also offers a number of possibilities for preventive action in the area of inciting hatred and inciting violence. That's actually exactly what I'm about to come up with, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u24	Mrs Van der Werf continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u25	In addition to the threat picture, the law seems to be underpinned by the idea that this law is necessary in order to prevent terrorist threats, while, of course, criminal law can also prevent anyone from being suspected of something: preparing an attack, participating in a terrorist organisation or financing terrorism, to name but a few. The idea that we could only intervene with criminal law when it is too late is therefore not correct. In addition, the law is now used, contrary to what was intended at the time of its introduction, after conviction, which often interferes with the judgment of a criminal, as the WODC also states. How does the Minister justify this and why does he not leave it to the criminal court to impose measures, for example, under the Long-Term Monitoring Act, on convicted terrorists? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the renewal of existing measures, this legislative proposal creates a basis for the processing of personal data. If this law were to be extended, I can imagine that for data on religion and belief. But what is the need to be able to process race and ethnicity? This question remains unanswered after criticism by the Council of State and after questions in the report. So I'm making a third attempt here. Can the Minister give one example in which it would be necessary to process data on race and ethnicity? What's the downside of processing that data, I hope, after the supplemental affair, I won't have to explain anymore. Mr. Chairman. D66 is in favour of a sound security policy, let there be no misunderstanding. But the question is whether this law contributes to this. The expectations regarding the functioning of the law have largely not been met, according to the WODC. Moreover, we have to ask ourselves whether all this human strength of our security people who are in need here in the Netherlands in order to be able to apply these measures, even if they are ultimately abandoned, could not be better placed in more effective security measures, for example through more focus on criminal prosecution and measures in the care that contribute to prevention. It is clear that the D66 Group is not yet convinced of the need for enlargement and the extension of this law. I am happy to be convinced, but with proven methods, facts and effective measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u26	Thank you for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Nispen. He shall speak on behalf of the Socialist Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u27	Mr. Chairman. Terrorism is disruptive for society and must therefore be combated effectively and thoroughly. However, I do not think that the law that is before us today to be extended is the right way to do this. That won't be a surprise. Earlier, the SP voted against this too. In particular, we object to the Minister being able to impose the measures if he considers that this is necessary for the protection of national security. Then we are talking about a reporting obligation, an area ban, a restraining order or an exit ban. All measures that I believe are necessary and useful, but not for the Minister's assessment. I don't think that's appropriate. The Council of State and the Dutch Order of Lawyers were also critical of this. The measures which the Minister may impose are of a preventive nature. The Minister can therefore restrict the freedom of movement of individuals even before something concrete has happened or is prepared to bring criminal law into sight. These measures are not intended to punish individuals, the Minister writes, but of course they are experienced in this way. It does, of course, feel like a punishment for being limited in your freedom of movement. The Minister also acknowledges that the six-month period, which can be extended each time, is about the maximum. "The limit of what is constitutionally possible has been reached," he writes, especially since this is imposed by the administration, without the intervention of the judge. The relationship with criminal law, as the Minister explains, does not suit me very well either. I'm gonna keep having trouble with that. The Minister writes: "The criterion for imposing an administrative measure on the basis of the Twbmt', the abbreviation of this law "is not a suspicion or indication that a terrorist offence is being committed or will be committed, but a set of behaviours on the basis of which it must be concluded that the person concerned poses a threat to national security'. Is it even working, what we're doing? This law has been in force since 2017. Since then, seven individuals have been subject to 11 administrative measures. That is rather limited to be able to say something about effectiveness. The WODC had that task, but it doesn't come out completely either. I don't think that's the WODC's fault. For example, the WODC report concludes that, due to the reporting obligation, individuals remained in the sight of the government. That may be true, but you don't know what you've prevented. Also, the exit ban would not have allowed people to leave, but how do you know that's because of the exit ban? There's no way to establish that. In two cases, an area ban has been imposed. This could have prevented persons from engaging in terrorist activities or spreading radical jihadist ideas in that area. But if there are concrete indications of this, criminal law could have been used. And if there are no concrete indications, then you cannot say that intervention has been effective. The NSA, the WODC and the Council of State also state that there is no evidence that this law has contributed to the protection of national security. The expectations regarding the functioning of the law have thus largely not been met, according to the WODC. I understand, however, that the effect of prevention is difficult to demonstrate. Of course, Mrs Michon had a point. But I do need a more detailed basis for far-reaching measures. In my opinion, that justification is lacking. The Council of State rightly raises the question of whether all measures still have the right to exist. The ban on contact was applied only once, the possibility of withdrawing licences or subsidies under Article 6 was applied exactly zero times, and yet the law should be extended according to the government. 'Cause? You never know? Then you've got it in the toolbox? I don't think that's a very strong argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u28	It is always nice to listen to Mr Van Nispen's speech. He's wrong about one thing. The Court has requested that this law be extended. The government did that. Then there is the second point. You spoke of far-reaching measures, but everything that is contained in them is up to a maximum of six months. All these restrictions of freedom are therefore limited, because it is an administrative measure. What, then, would be an acceptable deadline for Mr Van Nispen to limit that freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u29	First of all, the Minister is coming up with this bill. It's not an initiative from the Chamber. Of course, this has been requested by motion, but if the Minister brings forward a bill, the Minister has good reason to support it. If he can't, he can also tell the Chamber: I can't justify it well, so I'm not going to extend that law. That's one. Secondly, I believe that the six-month deadline can be extended by a six-month period on the basis of the legislative proposal. So I do not think that the deadline is that short. The Minister himself admits that this six-month period is somewhat inconsistent with what is constitutionally possible. I didn't have to have that law anyway, so I don't know what would be an acceptable deadline for these administrative measures either. As far as I am concerned, they should not be imposed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u30	This does clarify things, because now Mr Van Nispen says: I am not so much concerned with this time limit as with my group, but I am at all opposed to the use of administrative measures such as this, which are preventive in nature in order to protect national security. That's what you're saying, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u31	I have already appointed a lot of cases, including that for me the effectiveness is not established. Not only for me it is not certain, but also for the WODC, which had the task of establishing its effectiveness. We have had this law for a few years now and its effectiveness cannot be established. I think that is quite essential, because that is the basis on which we now have to review this law. There are also constitutional objections, or at least constitutional objections, that is how I must express myself. That is what the Council of State, the Dutch order of lawyers and many more people point out. The Minister also says that the six-month period for imposing such an administrative measure can be extended by a further six months each. That is what Article 4 says, and I have looked it up in the meantime. That almost clashes with what is constitutionally possible. So I cannot say what I think is an acceptable time-limit, because I think we are going to come to the conclusion once again that we are going to vote against this bill, just as we have done before. I also agree with what Mrs van der Werf had to say about the possibility of crossing preventive measures, such as deradicalisation. Some interviewees raise the question: is it not counterproductive what we are doing here with these administrative measures? That is again an additional argument to be critical of this, I'll just say to the VVD. It is asked: are we not doing more damage than is intended? This is what an official says, which means that you must always look at the social context and what is the best measure at the time. For even though deradicalisation may not be the official objective of this law, I do not think we should interfere with that important process either. Moreover, the application of this law, if chosen, is indeed very labour-intensive, as previous speakers pointed out. It takes a lot of human strength and capacity, which are desperately needed to set up effective actions and interventions to keep the Netherlands safe. I believe that this is what needs to be done to combat terrorism: to use criminal law where possible, but above all to work preventively where possible. In all cases, you'll need sufficient capacity for that. Also think of enough neighborhood agents, like eyes and ears of the neighborhood. They're not enough. The state of the police is worrying. There's not enough capacity. There's too late and too little investment in our police. That is the preventive work we need. I think that was exactly what Mrs Michon wanted to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u32	Mr Van Nispen referred to the labour-intensive process of applying an administrative measure as described in the law. But is it not the intention to ensure that it is applied carefully? Because you say it, like some of your colleagues, it's not nothing you let the minister do. It is a question of preventive measures to protect our national security, and that is something you should not take too lightly. The file and the application must therefore be well substantiated. This must be accompanied by a strong administrative and substantive motivation. My group thinks that this is very logical, because it is not nothing. You say it all goes too far and it takes too much time. Isn't that a contradiction? My group says that it is logical that it takes some time, because it is about something, so it needs to be well motivated. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u33	I'm looking at that as follows. It could always be worse. You could also say: "We give these far-reaching measures to the Minister. I don't need a file for that at all. That's what I decide. Then it is not labour intensive and then it goes very far." I think that's an even worse idea. I see the minister thinking, no, I wouldn't. But that would be even worse. In that respect, Mrs Michon has a point. If you want this law and take far-reaching measures, then it must be based on a good and careful dossier. Then it is indeed labour intensive. But I say in my turn: you have to read all the disadvantages of that law consecutively. In my opinion, it is not effective, it goes too far and it can cross other routes, which may be very useful in terms of deradicalisation. It is also extremely labour-intensive, and we know that we do not have enough district agents and young people at the moment. These are all things that are needed to do this important preventive work. Then I say to Mrs Michon: you can only bet one FTE in one place. If you let them prepare all kinds of administrative files for the minister to take measures that may not be effective at all, while you can also make them work in the neighborhood, which may be extremely effective, then you have to make choices. Mr. Chairman. I was in the interest of plenty of neighborhood agents. In my opinion, sufficient youth workers are also needed, because they feel what lives and plays. They can be of great value in keeping the peace in the neighborhoods. But there are too few of them. There's not enough investment in our neighborhoods. Give the probation, the people in prisons and the municipalities the opportunity to work effectively on deradicalisation and prevention. Put everything on top of everything, because safety is human work. We see, on the contrary, that the main police team responsible for combating terrorism has too little time, resources and people to monitor, for example, returned Syrians. Mrs Kathmann was right to draw attention to this. The so-called CTER team of the national police unit does not succeed enough to portray radical networks. There are tensions and conflicts within that team. That concludes the Justice and Security Inspectorate in an investigation. We are going to talk about this in more detail, but that investigation only came after employees called through the police union, not because the police summit or the minister himself had noticed. In addition, there is trouble with the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security. That is our coordinator when it comes to combating terrorism. This service is increasingly acting as an investigative or intelligence service, has not obeyed the law here and there, has not been fair about it, haunts whistleblowers who bring out abuses and has advised municipalities to hire a commercial agency to secretly monitor mosques. That's all devastating for the support and trust. Mr. Chairman. In short, instead of ensuring that the police and other places are able to put the capacity in order and that the NCTV keeps to its duties and does not lose its support, we see that the Minister is taking the easy way: the extension of an ineffective law, which we are discussing today, in my view. He may want to use this as an actor, but I think he should have been more concerned with what really is proven to be an effective counter-terrorism tool. Finally, I would like to join the critical questions that have so far been raised about the processing of special personal data, including by Mrs Koekkoek and Mrs Van der Werf. This is about Article 7a and 7b of that law, about data showing racial or ethnic origin, political, religious or philosophical beliefs. Of that, I say, you don't have to insert that article into an extension law. If you want to strictly extend the law, you only need the article: we extend the law. I am also pleased that you say: well, today I am Minister of Justice and Security instead of Minister of Security and Justice. However, an extension law does not require you to insert a controversial article about the processing of special personal data. That article is very similar to the article that has also been inserted into the law that we have declared controversial: the law on NCTV. We have declared that law controversial with each other, colleagues. That is the law of a deportationary government, on which we say: we need to look at it very carefully. And that article would be just like this in this law, without the right and appropriate guarantees. I very much follow what colleagues have said about this. If we were to vote in favour of this law, I think without my group's support, but let us say that a majority does not do so at least with the contentious articles, without proper safeguards for privacy. That is simply not the right level of supervision. So let us not make that decision until we have finally dealt with the now controversial law on the processing of special personal data by NCTV with a new government. So I think at least 7a and 7b should be out of this law. I'd like another comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u34	Thank you very much for your input. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van der Plas. She will address us on behalf of the BoerCitizen Movement. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u35	I have one of those keys in my back. That's gonna get excited, and then I'm just gonna keep going all day until it's over. I'll go to sleep. I hear people thinking, is she gonna get involved in this again? Yeah, I'm gonna do that, yeah. I guess that's what I was chosen for. Mr. Chairman. This is a serious subject. We're talking about two major interests tonight that need to be weighed up. Firstly, we have a duty to protect citizens from the threats of terrorism. I would also like to congratulate our security services and the Minister. With this law, they have, to date, protected our country from mass attacks as they did in countries around us. On the other hand, this law may impose radical restrictions on the freedom of the Dutch. It is about freedoms that we, as a Chamber, must also guarantee. It is good that we are having a sharp, substantive debate on this. We must not allow such measures to become silently permanent, as is often the case in the case of anti-terrorism measures abroad. We may now extend the law for five years without the government seeing the need to make changes to the law. I think this is kind of crazy. Indeed, things have changed in the world. The Islamic State is largely contained and the number of major jihadist attacks in Europe has also decreased. Is the Minister still convinced that this law fits the new situation? Why didn't the Minister propose any adjustments? These questions mainly arise because the level of threat since the introduction of this law has fallen from "significant', a terrorist attack in the Netherlands is imaginable, to "essential', the likelihood of a terrorist attack in the Netherlands is real. According to the Minister, does this not fit in with a new approach? We are creating the basis in this law for imposing restrictions on freedom in relation to threats to national security, or to people who wish to join terrorist groups. Can the Minister indicate how many people we are talking about, at the moment, but also in longer-term forecasts? Can the Minister indicate how many times he has considered his competence to impose a reporting obligation, a ban on territory or a ban on contact in recent years? And in how many of these cases did he impose it? Has the number of people banned from leaving the Schengen area imposed by the Minister decreased in recent years? The Minister says that it is important, in order to ensure adequate protection of national security, to be able to choose from a wide range of measures. That seems clear to me. But in a democratic rule of law, the palette of the government must be really limited by parliament. Can the Minister share his own experiences with the law? The law is largely written to provide the minister with opportunities. So it seems relevant to me to hear how the Minister has dealt with the responsibilities. I would have liked to have seen a new version of the current law that takes into account new threats, such as returners, smaller terrorist cells and the reduced overall threat, or a shorter duration of action before new approval is necessary. If that is not possible, the BBB's assessment of the proportionality of this law remains uncertain for the time being. That is why I look forward to the Minister's reply for clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u36	Thank you for your input. The next speaker is Mrs Bikker. It will speak on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u37	Thank you, Mr President. You speak all these abbreviations so beautifully that I almost regret that my party has no abbreviation. Still, thank you. Mr. Chairman. The Temporary Act anti-terrorism administrative measures were filed and dealt with in this Chamber during a period of serious threat in the Netherlands and Europe. There were horrible attacks in Paris and in Brussels. People also traveled from here to the IS Caliphate. The NCTV considered that the threat level for an attack was substantial. In addition to criminal law, more was needed to keep society resilient and protect it, for example against possible perpetrators of attacks. In view of this context, the Christian Union considers it justified to agree to the temporary law. The law provides for administrative possibilities for reporting, prohibition of contact, prohibition of territory, exit ban and withdrawal of subsidies. Now we are in 2021 and the question is whether the continuation of these resources is justified again. The world has changed, fortunately for the better in some areas. The threat level has been scaled down, the criminal toolbox has been expanded and fortunately IS no longer has the appeal to some young people he had five or six years ago. Moreover, there is now a robust evaluation of the WODC, which is not only positive, and the Council of State also raises questions. How does the Minister weigh this new context? What makes this law still necessary in the current context and there are no alternatives, for example in criminal law? How did the declining threat level find a reflection in this law? And yes, there is a CDA and Christian Union chamber motion calling for extension, but that motion also asks to see how the law can become more effective. Less pressure should be placed on the people who have to implement the law and the various measures. The law must be more of an added value for the personalised approach than it is now. Mr. Chairman. Among other things, the WODC states that the law is not currently being used for what the law was originally intended for, namely in the places where criminal law does not yet provide for the protection of national security. On the contrary, the law is mainly used after the end of a criminal process, for example when prisoners choose to serve their sentence in full and not use the probationary period, which means that the Reclassification is hand-bound and the people disappear from the government's sight more quickly. This path will be punished and protected with the new Law, possibly even more often. The pressing question raised in the evaluation, but also to which the Council of State is concerned, is whether administrative law is the appropriate route and whether we have the right remedy. It is precisely the latter that has my greatest concern. How does the Minister reflect on that? What are his intentions to show to this Chamber, but most of all to the people who are involved and the people who work with it, that this is the right remedy? Is it not wise to consider in the near future what objectives can be achieved with other, less radical and more secure forms than the provisions contained in these laws? That is a test of subsidiarity, as it were. Is the Minister prepared to look into this? Can he also consider with the Reclassification what is necessary and report on this to the Chamber in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u38	There's been an interruption by Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u39	Mrs Bikker rightly raises a number of critical points with regard to the law. The situation is different now. The threat level is different. The Council of State is critical. There's a critical evaluation. But I haven't heard her yet about the dilemma that always comes to mind with such far-reaching laws, namely the restriction of fundamental rights. That's also what's going on here. I have myself mentioned the danger that we will get used to restricting fundamental rights, that it is actually easy to have such an instrument at your disposal and that it will blur the standards. Can Mrs. Bikker reflect on that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u40	I didn't sign up for ten minutes for nothing, because I want to make a thorough contribution here. There was something I was happy to read in the Minister's reply, because I remember the time when the law was introduced and I had this debate with Minister Blok as Minister of Justice. You don't guess it, but Minister Blok meets you everywhere and with Mr Markuszower as Senator. These were special times. I was in the First Chamber myself at the time. At that time it seemed that they wanted to use the five years and then at an evaluation they wanted to see if the law should forever be an addition to the toolbox. That was the atmosphere at the time. In any case, I see as a profit from this law that it is temporary and that there is a mid-term review. I am going to go further in my contribution to what I thought was much more important at the time, because it helps much more in countering radicalisation. That is the approach in which you engage in the debate on ideas, where you talk about prevention, the district agent, about which I heard Mr Van Nispen, but also about disengagement when someone is imprisoned and convicted as a terrorist. How do you reach someone? At first, we didn't know what was working on it. There are also developments in this regard. I'd like to challenge the Minister. Because honestly, when I went to look back when we last talked about it as a room, it scared me a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u41	I look forward to Mrs Bikker's further exhibition, but I would like to give you one thing now. I notice that the threat level was very important at the time for the legitimisation of the law, but that is now being interpreted in a very different way. Now we don't see that one-on-one as an I.D. for the law. The threat image is an element, but it doesn't say everything. That's exactly what I'm talking about by blurring standards. At first, something is very much needed. At that time we voted against, because the weighting was different for us. But then it was very necessary because of the threat picture. Now instances are used to this part in the toolbox, but the threat image is less important at once. On this point, I would like to hear from Mrs Bikker whether she shares the criticism I have. I am very curious to see what arguments Mrs Bikker has to go through with this law at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u42	I'll take it one step at a time anyway. I shall begin with Mrs Ellemeet's first question. This law is part of the integrated approach to jihadism. That was a broader story. Yes, it was important that the threat level was substantial or actually higher than that. But this integrated approach is still important in these changing times. We might now call it extremism, and that's what it was later called. Apart from how I judge the law exactly... I'll get to that. I'll stop answering, because I'm talking too long. I can see that from your frown, Mr. Chairman. It is precisely for this reason that this law can never be the only answer to extremism at this time. I miss the rest of the answer anyway. Maybe the Minister's gonna surprise me. I'd like that. But I'll finish my contribution to this law first. Mr. Chairman. Now that the government sees the need to extend the law, I would like to ask the Minister the following. What are the conditions for each of the five individual measures, on the basis of which it will decide whether or not to extend its choice? And how does he see that in the future? Is the Minister prepared to formulate these conditions and give them to the WODC when the evaluation is carried out again? That's in two and a half years. I am considering a motion on this point, precisely because the evaluation that we have now had has a lot of thanks to the people who have done a lot of work for it, according to the Council of State, too, had a rather unfocused question from the Ministry. Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned the points of improvement in the evaluation mentioned in the Segers/Van Toorenburg motion: reducing the workload and increasing the added value of the territorial approach. One possibility to do this, for example, was not to continue the reporting obligation, as it requires a lot and the expected band is not built up. The monitoring of compliance with other measures is not really clear either. Why didn't the government choose that? Before going into a number of specific measures, I would like to ask a question. The evaluation of this bill covers the period up to September 2019. Have there been any significant interventions under the law since then? Has the exit ban been used or any action taken on grants or permits? That last part hasn't been applied at all, has it? Then why does the Minister still think that this is necessary? With regard to the exit ban, the Minister will also recognise that this has lost momentum, especially since the less radical passport measure is often also an option. When was the last time this was used and what are the criteria for the government to stop such a measure? Of course, you can make a whole speech about how you have all avoided misery, precisely because of the threat of such a measure, but I am very curious to see what criteria the Minister believes should continue to meet. Mr. Chairman. The restraining order is proving difficult to enforce. How does the Minister continue to work to make people's commitment efficient and to ensure that this prohibition of contact is added value, especially when contact takes place online or networks are in contact with each other? A measure whose effectiveness is well demonstrated is the area ban. It may hinder the commission of a terrorist attack or the spread of radical thought. But the evaluation also shows a concern: the media attention to land bans and their extension in some cases creates some kind of hero status, which makes the person gain prestige rather than lose. How does the Minister respond to this concern of the WODC? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a question about the sharing of data. The Minister has created a basis for the processing of special data. I understand that in the light of the GDPR. For religious belief or health, therefore, I can very well follow why there is this basis, but I still lack the basis for racial or ethnic origin. Can the Minister explain clearly why this is necessary? Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned this in my reply to Mr Ellemeet: this law was always part of the Integrated Approach to Jihadism, which is now known as an integrated approach to terrorism and extremism. The last report I find dates back to 2019. This approach included both the preventive side, the digital approach and the funding, as well as the side at the end, after detention. So that disengagement fell underneath. It's the whole plan that's aiming for a person-oriented approach. That approach saw not only the banning of evil, but also it, where someone does evil things, trying to convince him that the right path is better for him and for society. Mr. Chairman. I know a lot has happened. I hope that much remains to be done, particularly with regard to this local, personalised approach. But at least I miss reporting to the Chamber. I therefore miss the debate that we can have with each other about what extremism means at this time, because it is vital that we stand for our democratic legal order. Where it is threatened, we have to talk to each other about how we make this society resilient. I think that is an essential question, especially at this time. I therefore look forward to the Minister's reply to this last point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u43	Thank you very much for your input. Mrs Kathmann, who will speak on behalf of the Labour Party, will be the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Terrorists create fear, commit violence and disrupt our society. That is why the fight against terrorism calls for our full attention. I cannot often emphasise how happy we should be with all those people and organisations that help us to get not only the Netherlands, but also the whole world, safe. I really think that is an important basis for this debate, because the PvdA will also be very critical of extending the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism. This is mainly due to the given justification. I also think it is important to stress that, fortunately, we are getting more and more clearly that we have been far too one-sided in preventing and combating terrorist threats. The focus was on Muslim fundamentalism. Analyses seemed to suggest that there was little threat from right-wing extremists. That oneness has caused two serious problems. Precisely because the intelligence and security services and the NCTV were mainly focused on the Muslim angle, there seemed to be room for, for example, monitoring local Muslim communities. We're gonna talk about that. The partnership with the government has been damaged, especially in the fight against terrorism. Two. We have overlooked concrete right-wing extremist threats for far too long. Nor does the proposal to extend the administrative anti-terrorism measures that we are now discussing contribute to a good understanding of the Muslim community. We have also emphasised this in the course of the examination of the original legislative proposal. It is precisely in order to avoid light suspicions leading to the application of administrative measures that the aforementioned amendment was tabled by GroenLinks and D66. That was asked for again later, but there came again zero on the reekest. The M.O. remains as follows: The Minister, and in practice the NCTV, takes a rather restrictive measure. The person concerned must actively oppose this and must deny any reasonable suspicion that national security has been compromised. In six of the 14 administrative reports, administrative measures were finally imposed. The procedure is very labour-intensive; it has been said many times here. The question I am asking the Minister is: could not the same effect have been achieved with less radical measures and already existing powers? If we think, for example, that a person is at risk of going in the direction of jihadism and could potentially pose a threat to national security, why are administrative measures needed and interventions to ensure deradicalisation not working? Then why is a personalised approach aimed at deradicalisation not an option? That can also help to reduce the threat to national security, right? The government does say that national security is not deradicalisation, but the purpose of the law, but that is, as far as I am concerned, a game of words. For even the WODC thinks that deradicalisation is a goal of this law. That's a lot to say. If such a deradicalisation is no longer enough, why does criminal law not come into sight? Soon you'll be talking about a suspicion of the preparation of a terrorist crime, won't you? The government itself recognises that the approach to terrorism in criminal matters has been strengthened in recent years. The Council of State says the same thing. In other words, my question to the Minister is as follows. Where exactly is the gap, between the personal deradicalisation approach and criminal law, which will have to be filled with these administrative measures? There is, therefore, a request for an extension for the application of legal powers, which you may ask whether they add anything at all to the existing penal arsenal, the proportionality of which is questionable and which is subject to the necessary legal objections. We have just said: if we start selecting special personal data, such as race, ethnic origin and political, religious or philosophical beliefs, will this not open up the back door to process other data? Didn't we learn anything from the supplemental affair? That's what I'm asking the Minister. With all this in mind, can the Minister state exactly why it is necessary to extend this temporary law? My final question to the Minister has already asked BBB. The Council of State is also suggesting it. If it is necessary then, everyone will hear that I am skeptical, but I really want to think about the security and the approach to terrorism. What are the technical possibilities for extending this law very temporarily, for example by one year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u45	Thank you for your input. Finally, Mrs Kuik will be speaking as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. She will speak on behalf of the Christian Democratic Appeal. I'm running out of time because the cathedral needs cleaning. That's why I speak the names in full. They're pretty names.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will make my contribution on behalf of the SGP. Mr. Chairman. The extension of the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism is now on the agenda, because the current powers will no longer be secured if we do not extend them. Those powers can be used in the context of preventive action against terrorist acts, in order to protect our national security. The Minister of Justice may, by this law, impose restrictions on freedom. Think of a reporting obligation, a land ban, a restraining order and an exit ban. This law also allows administrative bodies to refuse or withdraw grants and permits if there is a serious risk that they may be used for terrorist activities and if a person poses a threat to national security. Mr. Chairman. In view of the motion tabled in this Chamber by my predecessor and my colleague, Mr Segers, it will be no surprise that we find the extension justified and necessary. In tabling the motion, two questions were central to the consideration of whether there should be an extension. These questions are central to today's legislative proposal: are the powers of the law still needed and has the law worked well over the past five years, in line with how it was intended? Mr. Chairman. I have read the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State. It questions the need for the extension of the temporary law. The threat picture has been significant and no longer substantial since 2019, as at the time of the entry into force of the law. This is, of course, positive in itself, but'significant' still means that an attack can be imagined. To what extent can the Council of State assess the terrorist threat? Couldn't we leave that much better to the NCTV? I also ask the Minister whether the NCTV considers the extension of this law necessary. Mr. Chairman. To what extent has this opinion also taken into account a group of more than 100 people who have left and joined IS? They may return to the Netherlands. Also, IS-goers may be released after trial. Are there sufficient instruments to preserve the national security of the Netherlands for these people who have joined the terrorist organisation? Mr. Chairman. The terrorist threat has changed and, above all, has become wider. The threat of right- and left-wing extremistism has increased. We also see disturbing reports about, for example, accelerationism. This is also reflected in the written round, in which the various parties ask questions about the need not to look too closely at what is a terrorist threat. It is clear that the threat of an attack is still worrying. I would ask the Minister to what extent different types of terrorism require different measures. Are the powers in this law still sufficient, or should other powers be considered? Mr. Chairman. Then the operation of the Tw... no, I don't have to say that abbreviation. Then the functioning of the Temporary Act administrative measures to combat terrorism in recent years. The evaluation shows that the law has been used at times when no other law or regulation was possible. That's exactly how the temporary law was meant to be. Several decisions have also been challenged before the courts. In doing so, the court ruled that the powers were correctly exercised. Whether the law has actually prevented attacks, deradicalising people or other forms of prevention is, of course, hard to investigate. We have put all kinds of hopes here in the Chamber on deradicalisation projects, to which we grant subsidies without any clear determination that they work. However, we do see that this law has been applied proportionally as a last resort and that there is a proper course of justice in the event that resources are deployed. That weighs heavily on my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u47	No super-sharp political interruption right now. Yes, I see you're disappointed! I think it's important that we be very precise. When Mrs Kuik says that the law is mainly used at times when there was no other law, exactly as it was meant to be, I still attach myself to quoting a little bit from the WODC investigation. Very easy, it comes from the conclusion on page 61. "In practice, the measures appear to be mainly implemented at the end of the criminal justice process if people are released again and there is no longer any supervision under criminal law. However, the legal history shows that the legislator did not so much envisage this particular situation." So that is quite different from what Mrs Kuik just said: the law is indeed being applied in situations where there is no other law for it, exactly as the law intended. No, that's exactly what happens at the end of the criminal justice process. If Mrs Kuik would say that this is a problem that we have to solve, I agree. But that's not what this law was for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u48	It is, of course, about prevention. Of course, this can also happen after a person is released from a route, because then too, of course, the importance of prevention applies, because you want to prevent it from happening again. So I see that more broadly and I also see the importance of prevention against follow-up actions by people with whom they are getting back on the wrong track. So I see this as part of prevention, even though it is at the end of a path that someone has followed. Then there is the possibility for someone to start over again, but if you see that they are going in the wrong direction, you want to be able to put those measures in place preventively and you don't want to wait until things really go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u49	Waiting for things to go wrong doesn't want anyone. That seems obvious to me, but unless Mrs Kuik says that she had a completely different idea at the time, but that she did not say it at the time, it is clear from the legal history that the law was intended to prevent situations where there was no other law on the basis of which action could be taken. That law was not meant to say: someone has been punished, arrested, prosecuted and sentenced, but unfortunately there is no other law after the punishment and then we always have this law. That was just not the intention of this law. If Mrs Kuik is okay with the law being applied in this way, at least that is allowed, the law does not prohibit it, but that is really something other than what the law was originally intended for. Well, let's be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u50	I think we are looking at that differently, because if someone is released and tried, they deserve another chance. I think you can use this law to prevent someone from doing something wrong again. For example, if people have traveled and come back and if it proves difficult to bring them to justice, you want preventive measures to keep an eye on them. Mr. Chairman. A point of interest in the application of this law is that it takes a lot of manpower to use the law. This is also apparent from the evaluation. The motion asked for an extension of the law, but also asked to do something about it. I read in the Minister's replies that a working group has been set up to reach better agreements. I understand that, but I would like to know what working arrangements are involved. Can the Minister give an example of this and has the evaluation report been leading in the formulation of working arrangements? How are we going to see if these working arrangements are actually going to remove these bottlenecks? Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u51	Thank you very much for your input. I suggest we suspend until 8:05.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u52	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the amendment of the Temporary Act on combating terrorism in connection with extending its duration. We have arrived at the first term of the government. I call the Minister for Justice and Security. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good that we can be together tonight. I am grateful to your Chamber for the speedy handling of this bill. Also the First Chamber has to look into it. This law will expire on 1 March next year if it is not renewed in good time. I am going to put forward, on the basis of the questions put by Members, that the law is an important instrument in the fight against terrorism, and with that we must keep a close eye on it, which is important for the protection of our national security. Because that is the core concept that we are talking about, of course. This is also apparent from the fact that it has been necessary several times to impose a measure to avert the risk to national security. That is a situation in which criminal law is not at all at stake. I shall come back to that too. Of course, the number of times this has happened is not in the hundreds. That is perhaps only good, because that means that this Minister and his advisers are very careful to adjust and weigh. That is sometimes a labour-intensive process, but that is part of the rule of law, I think. There is also something in the whole that I call the prevention paradox with an anglicism. Because if you handle these kinds of measures properly and carefully, and you have good accompanying policies, then you will see that it is not necessary to make frequent use of them. We shall return to that in the answer to the questions. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the questions put by a number of Members, in particular Mr Ellemeet, Mr Van der Werf, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Bikker, on the need. It is good to first consider threat level 3, in which we now find ourselves. I'm going to explain later that by law you don't just have to look at the current threat level, but because some people have suggested that threat level 3 is a kind of quiet phase, I say the following. According to the definition, there is a significant threat and the likelihood of an attack is still conceivable. On the website of the ministry of JenV it is very detailed, but that is a page long. I do not think it is necessary to repeat this in detail here. But that's threat level three. Mr. Chairman. Although there is no indication that an attack is now being prepared in the Netherlands, it remains conceivable that it will happen. The scale ranges from 1 to 5. By the way, this level is based on the 55th Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands of the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, which was offered to your Chamber on 26 October last. In this, the jihadist movement in the Netherlands remains an important element. There have also been several lawsuits and arrests during this DTN period, such as the arrest in Eindhoven of a number of suspects on 23 September last. An attack can also be imagined from right-wing extremist angle. I informed your Chamber of this phenomenon by letter dated 26 October. Alertness is therefore needed, as is the active commitment of all partners involved in the approach now and in the future. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about counter-terrorism on 16 December. That seems to me to be a really good opportunity to go into more detail about some of the assumptions that Mrs Kathmann has made, for example that we have not looked at right-wing extremists. That is not the case, but I really think it is a good thing that we should be fully accountable for this next week and have a good debate on it with each other. Because this kind of thing is about being very alert to each other at the front, as it is called in the jargon, but not reacting out of proportion. That is why we do not use powers if we do not need a balanced assessment, but rather ensure that we have the instruments. Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u54	There is a question from Mrs van der Werf on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u55	I would like to ask the Minister whether he would have considered the extension of this law necessary if we had now found ourselves at threat level 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u56	So here comes the tricky point. I warned you when I gave the definition. We must be careful, because legislation should not be based on the fact that at some point there is a current situation that might pose less threat. We need to look together to see if we have legislation that provides a good tool for the national security of our country. In doing so, our consideration now is that we are also evaluating a bit different than five years ago. Five years ago we sat directly after a few horrible, very large, many deadly attacks in Europe, such as the Bataclan attack of November 2015 and the attack on Zaventem of March/April 2016. In the meantime, however, we still have a society in which we have to see together that, unfortunately, terrorist threats are a common thread that emerges in various, sometimes changing forms. That's what we need these tools for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u57	If I listen carefully to the Minister, he says: yes, you could not just use the threat image to support this. Of course, that happens in a conductive scale. We've now gone from four to three. In five years, we're gonna go from three to two, or maybe from three to one. Should you not then look much more closely at whether these measures you are applying are also proportionate to the threat and that we can therefore deal with them much more proportionately?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u58	Mrs Van der Werf has a right point that you need to look at how things are developing over time. You have also seen that we have an evaluation after two and a half years, which would normally have been after three years. That's pretty remarkable. I said, let's bring that up a little bit. I will come to a number of questions that have been asked by Members of Parliament, such as whether you would not be able to include a little more in that evaluation and so on. But that is Mrs van der Werf's point. I can imagine that in two and a half years' time you will say that in an evaluation of this law and of what the seven and a half years have been like, perhaps there are indications that things have turned out differently. It could very well be that a parliament that sits then is basically this Chamber, because I assume that that law will be there in February, plus two and a half years, then it will be within four years of that evaluation saying: perhaps we should reconsider things. At least that is not the case now. I would stress, however, that you really need to look at this in terms of long-term social development and how you deal with it and how effective and useful the instruments are. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Koekkoek had a question about proportionality. She asked: is it sufficiently balanced whether it is proportionate for this minister to impose administrative measures, while there is no criminally culpable behaviour? Any measure imposed must be necessary in order to protect national security, since it concerns behaviour linked to terrorist activities. A measure can only be imposed if it is necessary, having regard to its purpose, and proportionate. The proportionality test is for me, I say 'for me', but for the Minister of JenV who is dealing with this, I mean 'for me' as an important part of the consideration for the imposition of a measure. A measure does not require a criminal offence, because that national security has a weighting framework preceding that criminal law. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mrs Ellemeet's point. She asked: is it justified under the rule of law to impose such a measure on individuals without a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence? Let me start immediately by saying that it is, of course, far-reaching. This is indeed a restriction of freedom. But this can also be done in a rule of law, if it is properly guaranteed, if it has a good, sound, legal basis, and if these measures are also of a very clear, far-sighted temporary nature and there is a proper judicial review. I would like to draw your attention to this once again. I have just experienced that the independent judge is always checking whether there is proportionality. In a particular case, the judge said at one point: I consider the propos... the posch... Excuse me, I should have been at home ten times practicing the word. But the judge has said: I do not consider proportionality to be present here anymore. I can honestly say that when I read such a statement, I think: okay, then I didn't do the weighing very well. But this is part of the rule of law. I therefore believe that this is well invested in a rule of law, with guarantees in the law and with an independent test on that point. Mrs Ellemeet also asked about the existing other instruments. Doesn't that satisfy you? This is part of the instruments. That is a coherent whole. That means you need some of these things to fight the whole thing. I believe that I am saying this in my mind: Mrs Van der Werf referred to the Law as long-term supervision. I consider the Long-Term Supervision Act to be a very important instrument, but it is very clear in criminal law. This is another instrument, which I say: in certain situations where there is a conviction, the Law may also offer opportunities for long-term supervision. But I'm going back to Mrs Ellemeet's question. It is therefore a coherent whole. If you're going to cut things out of there at some point, then the other parts are going to work less well and you should consider using them more often, even in a forced way, and we shouldn't want that. That is why I support the fact that I think this is a good instrument in the...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Van der Werf asked: isn't it better to bet on criminal prosecution? The tricky thing is, of course, that this can only be done if there is justified criminal suspicion. With this law, we have set out the situation in which there is evidence of involvement in possible terrorist activities, in such a way that, in the context of the proportionality test, which I have just mentioned, the weighting is: national security must weigh heavily here and, for example, a land ban or an exit ban must be imposed. I'll get to the effectiveness of the exit ban. So you're not actually going to be in the criminal domain at all. Mr President, you will forgive me if, as Mrs van der Werf does, you cannot speak more of prevention if you are now in the criminal domain. If a person is suspected of a criminal offence, whether that is a preparatory act or not, then the person is in that domain, with all the consequences of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u59	Mrs Van der Werf has another question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u60	I have one brief question about something the Minister indicated. He said: it would indeed be desirable to use this Act for long-term supervision after conviction. If this is desirable, why is it happening now that the Temporary Law could also be used in such cases? Shouldn't we go to a situation or an explicitation of that Long-Term Supervision Act, where you don't cut off criminal law with administrative law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u61	Yes, but this long-term supervision Act is a bit more fundamental, to put it simply. I think that we should link it very strongly to criminal law. We are talking here about a temporary law on administrative matters. That word says it all about measures. This also means that the judge's test is a more direct, faster and essentially a very different one, even if someone is wrongly imposed on it. As far as I'm concerned, we have to keep those two apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u62	My question was above all: shouldn't you be using Twbmt after a conviction of that Wlt and not that Twbmt?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u63	In those cases where the Wlt already gives the possibility at the time of the conviction, so it is changed now, the Wlt is certainly an option. But the Temporary Law on Administrative Measures has a very different weighting. Then it's not about whether someone has proven a criminal offence. It is a question of whether there is strong evidence of the activities of a person who can be classified as terrorism, or at least as an involvement in it, in such a way that I always say to him that national security is at stake. This is, by the way, quite a heavy weighting of which, as some of you have pointed out with the calculations, we do not often get it. That Long-Term Supervision Act will be applied much more often in the future, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u64	It is interesting what the previous speaker says: what is effective, criminal law or administrative law? In criminal law too, preparatory acts can, of course, be punishable. Is it not the case, and I ask the Minister, through the President, that this matter is also very often about speed of action? I would like to mention, for example, the case I mentioned in my speech: the ban on the territory of a hate imam. Even if there is "incitement" or preparatory action and then you go on a criminal journey, can't you also move faster with these administrative measures? Is it not the case that criminal law will simply take too long, which will cause these activities to begin gradually, while the case is being built up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u65	You see me looking a little frowning, at least that's what I'm trying to do, because it's hard to answer that. I'm just taking the case from September 2018, where a number of suspects in Arnhem and Weert were arrested in the context of suspicion of preparing a terrorist attack. This action itself has been very rapid, but it has been preceded by a long track of several months. If Mrs. Michon is referring to that, she's right: it takes a lot longer to get the criminal evidence around. However, I would like to stress that our services can really get to work immediately when the time comes. And that's what they do. There should be no misunderstanding about this for the public. But it's gonna take you longer to gather the evidence, of course. Mrs. Michon is right that in a situation where it is very visible that someone is chasing young people up to potentially terrorist activity... I'm being distracted for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u66	I also hear a phone ringing, but I don't know whose; but it's not yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u67	There are two people I should always ask for a suspension, but they're not calling now, so that's good. Let me return to Mrs Michon's point, because that is quite right. If you see that there is reason to do so, then you can impose that measure. Then it is not a question of a complete criminal record being built up, but then it must be very well thought-out probable that I would like to emphasise that; therefore, I find it difficult to say that there is someone involved in terrorist activities in such a way that it endangers national security. That is a genuine lawyer's answer, which shows that in both cases you must at least have your file in a very thorough and well organized manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u68	Mrs Kathmann on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u69	Yes, a supplementary question to that. When the law entered into force, the explanatory memorandum indicated that the need for the administrative measure lies in the protection of national security against the danger that criminal measures (yet) could not remove that State in brackets. And there is the tension, because we know that the rights of citizens are much better guaranteed in criminal law. So you'd rather settle it through criminal law than through a quick administrative measure. Then where's the hole? Because we just miss that in the evaluation. Indeed, new criminal law instruments have been introduced, including in European legislation. So where is the gap that now suddenly requires an extension of that temporary law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u70	Point one: we need to place the "closing hook" just as well. It is therefore a danger that in criminal law "not" or... "Not yet" can be removed. I do not think I need to explain the non-case, because there are simply situations, which I have just indicated in response to Mrs Michon's question, in which the criminal evidence for a criminal offence is simply not yet available or is not fully available. This is not about evidence of a criminal offence. The point is that there must be strong indications or a high probability that someone will be involved in terrorist activities in such a way that national security is at stake, and that these activities will then come back to an earlier discussion, in response to Mrs van der Werf's questions, which means that they are not yet in the criminal domain, but are a concrete threat to national security. Then back to Mrs Koekkoek, because that means that you have to make a very specific proportionality weighting: is there really a threat to national security? In criminal law, as Mrs Kathmann knows, the evidence of the description of the crime was at some point realised. Then you've committed a criminal offence. Then you can still get fired from legal proceedings and I know a lot of things, but that's not on the point of: is the description of the crime fulfilled? Yeah, you have to meet 100% of that. Mr. Chairman. There were some questions and comments about the NCTV from Mr Van Nispen. We are going to talk about it in more detail next Thursday, but let me point out that NCTV is not an investigative service, and I have said this before, even in debate with Mr Van Nispen. If the Twbmt were not effective, I would say to Mr Van Nispen on his questions, an extension would not be on the agenda. Effectiveness is not related to quantity. If the imposition of a measure would enable certain acts of terrorism to be contained or made more difficult, which would protect national security, I think that is a very important fact. This means that Mr Van Nispen and I cannot conclude that there is a causal link between this law and the fact that we have prevented all kinds of terrorist activities. We can say, however, that this law, through its effect, contributes to the difficulties and possibly even countering those activities. Mr. Chairman. Then there was another question about the scope of the law. I can't tell you how many people are covered by the law. Nor can I indicate exactly how many times that commitment has been considered. Whether or not the measure is implemented is up to me, but I must of course apologize from the point of view of neologism. It is at the local level that someone who is concerned comes into the picture. It will then examine with relevant partners what measures should be taken. So this could be a range of measures. These may be measures in the sphere of deradicalisation, for which Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Van der Werf have asked for attention. These may be measures which, unfortunately, are yet again in the direction of criminal law. But they may also be measures based on this Temporary Law administrative measures to combat terrorism. I just want to put that down. It is not the case that this minister drives through the Netherlands and says here and there: well, there might be something there. It starts at the local level. That is, as I keep calling it, the good effect of Thorbecke's house. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u71	Mrs. Bikker, at this point still? You're in doubt, but keep going. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u72	Maybe I missed the Minister's famous cubes. So I'm not quite sure he's gonna get this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u73	I still have a lot of cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u74	Lots of cubes left! Well, that makes a lot of joyful guesses anyway. My question is this. The Minister indicates at which moments this works and it has also prevented cases. What struck me in preparing the law is that we have been talking about jihadism for a very long time. At some point it has been said that jihadism is under terrorism and that you need to see it more broadly. That's when we started talking about extremism. If I look now at things that municipalities need, precisely in protecting security and our democratic rule of law, we can see, for example, in the case of Rotterdam, but also in the case of Utrecht, where they even tried to impose an online ban on territory, that there are new forms of extremism and new forms of violence, of which I do not have a clear link between the Minister's approach. I would also like to discuss this further in a committee debate, but we are talking here, for example, about an area ban that can be imposed. So I'm a little looking. Perhaps the Minister is going to say it at another time in the answer, but how is this law tailored to the questions of today? What has the Minister done since 2019 to make this an appropriate toolbox?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u75	Then I'll just grab the block that's in a folder that's about CT policy. I know Mrs Bikker, who, like Mr Blok, has walked around in different ways in The Hague. I think she'd like that. Mr. Chairman. First of all, in November 2017, shortly after my arrival, I offered your Chamber the Integrated Approach to Terrorism, which continued the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. I informed your Chamber in April 2019 about the commitment and progress, and I have also reported on several occasions on various parts of it. If Mrs Bikker says what she said in her first term, namely that she is actually missing an integral report, then I think this is a good time to say: let's put that in front of your Chamber again next spring. In it we can take the integral picture of what is happening in all these areas, and we can also see what the new methods are. Mrs Koekkoek asked about digital resources and the support of psychosocial complaints, for example, because these are other instruments that you can use in certain situations. Those individuals are discussed in a local, multidisciplinary case consultation. I admit: this term will perhaps be used by some people how should I put it? scare off a little bit. But one simply sits with the different disciplines, with different responsibilities together and makes an assessment of certain people and the threat they pose. In that consultation it is agreed what you can do best, which interventions you can best apply to get rid of that threat. Those could be the measures from the temporary law we're talking about tonight. It could also be psychosocial support. The Threat Management Team can be called to help. It consists of professionals from police and psychiatric care, among others. They have developed a method of tackling potentially violent loners through customization. I would stress that this tailor-made approach can very well also relate to people's psychosocial contacts. It's supposed to pick up those signals as early as possible. I would also like to stress that, of course, this is about being able to say, at an early stage, to Mrs van der Werf's preventive point: here we are seeing someone or a few people who are in the middle of a very wrong development. This approach applies to all, let me say: extremists with a violent impact, regardless of the ideology they adhere to. So that's an approach that goes with that Twbmt. We will also look with interest at forms such as a digital area ban as is currently being imposed in Utrecht. In this way we come together with local administrators but also experts to a whole range of things. Mr Van Nispen mentioned the youth workers and district agents needed in the neighbourhoods. The temporary law and other measures are really meant to keep an eye on people of care. The temporary measure is complementary to other measures taken to mitigate threats. So you can think of things like deradicalisation paths, but I emphasise and endorse what Mr Van Nispen says about the importance of youth workers and district agents. This cabinet is therefore going to make 700 district agents possible as of next year. Mr. Chairman. As part of this policy, Mrs Kuik asked to what extent the opinion also took into account a group of more than 100 people who had left, joined IS and were allowed to return to the Netherlands. Are there sufficient instruments for this? An example of a possible use of this law indeed relates to the forthcoming release of people who have previously been convicted of terrorism, including returners from the battle zone. It can be assumed that at least a number of people have not yet distanced themselves from the violent ideas or, at least, from the extremist ideas. Moreover, these are people who have experience with weapons, explosives and extreme violence. There is already a need to maintain the instruments, so there is a need to continue with them. There is another specialist parole team that supervises compliance with the conditions imposed. That team explicitly guides the terrorist suspects and convicts. Mr. Chairman. Then I will move on to a number of other questions that have been asked, including on proportionality and monitoring of this law. Mrs Koekkoek asked: why does...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u76	May I interrupt you for a moment? Mr Van Nispen wants to make another interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u77	It goes back to what the Minister said about the importance of a personal approach and the importance of youth workers, police officers and so on, because I had also asked a question about this. I took the WODC investigation with me for a while. That says explicitly: beware of these counterproductive consequences. The WODC has that of the people who have been interviewed, of the people who are in contact with young people who may be affected by this law. Someone said, "These are the very means that help someone to get a rothecary on you. Do you know how bad it is to have to report a few times a week against your will? No one's gonna appreciate that." There is a good trajectory, for example a deradicalisation pathway. That can be crossed by such an administrative measure. What is the Minister's response to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u78	This point underlines to me that you have to deal with these instruments very carefully. This is true of the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism, but there is, of course, something similar in the case of deradicalisation, as Mr Van Nispen points out. In addition, it is really very important that you weigh carefully each time: does this have a good chance of success for this person? It also applies to psychosocial measures and the like. The Twbmt is really about people who pose a threat to national security, so to speak. That's what you're gonna base your decision on for the measures. Well, then in your behavior, you're quite the wrong way. This means that it is difficult, but we must always make the best set of measures. You don't read so much in the WODC report that they say, well, we've actually established that all those people say, "yes, we hated it," so we advise you not to do it. The WODC can't say that, because of course there have been such cases, but there are also cases where that didn't happen. I can also say that, in a general sense, I can well imagine that out of the seven people to whom I have imposed measures, there is not one who is enthusiastic about it; I fully understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u79	Exactly. But no misunderstanding, because the goal is not for everyone to say cheerfully: gosh, what a fine thing the Minister is imposing on me. No one's saying that. I don't mean it as a main argument why we wouldn't want this law. I think I have explicitly mentioned it as one of the potentially unwanted side effects. I think we should take that seriously. If it wasn't a problem, the interviewees wouldn't have told the WODC it was a problem either. If, in all cases, the best approach had been carefully considered at that time, I do not think it would have emerged as prominent as a problem. If the Minister continues with this law, how will it be ensured that, in all cases, very careful consideration will always be given to: what is the best approach at the moment and how do we prevent it? That may also be the case, if at that time it is the assessment: we are not imposing an administrative measure now, but we are continuing on the path that we are successfully working on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u80	I am going to reply briefly, because I am really going to repeat myself. The care is already in the system that starts in the local case consultation. At some point there is someone who is said to be: we will have to set up one or more of the instruments in the context of his very worrying behaviour. If such behaviour is a threat to national security, then it comes first to me at official level with or without the decision to submit it to the Minister to impose a measure. I can assure you that if we have changed this and weighed it, it will be the labour-intensive one, which Mrs Kathmann rightly points out, and what I believe is part of the rule of law, then a decision will be taken. That decision has a statement of reasons. If the person in question wishes to do so, it will be reviewed by the judge. I think that is a very careful way of doing things, because it gives you the transparency whether it has been right or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u81	It is precisely in our minister's eyes and ways that I have the utmost confidence. I mean that from the bottom of my heart. But it's about what happens before that. WODC really says something about that. That literally says: "The cases are discussed at local level," which the minister also mentioned, "in which there is a possible terrorist threat. The WODC notes that the preference in this local case consultation is primarily for criminal interventions and for interventions in the field of care and assistance, but that in these areas the specific local action perspectives are too limited by the budgets." That could also be the reason why it ends up on the Minister's wik-en-weig table. I have every confidence in that process, but I think we're here for the trial before that. That is where citizens' rights must be better safeguarded. I hope the Minister will be able to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u82	I'd like to reflect on that. We really need to go back to the people to whom such a measure is imposed under this law. In the view of that Minister............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I am very far away from the situation in which someone has been said about someone at local level: we may have to set up psychosocial programmes or deradicalisation programmes. Then someone got through the filters at the local level and through my department. It is said that this is real behaviour that is a threat to national security. If we're talking about someone who needs that psychosocial help, I'm telling you that that's possible. I have to be very careful when it comes to cases, because I am quite rightly still charged with this for a long time in the legislative process. But when you talk about people with psychosocial problems, we as a society have an obligation to take care of that. I'm just saying that from my own background. Anyway, I'm also a minister by accident. I think we have that obligation. When, however, it appears that, in addition to this psychosocial problem, there is evidence that the person may be involved in terrorist activities and that there is a danger to national security, and that every time there is a threat to national security, there must be a possibility of taking a measure under this law. However, there is also a very good judge's assessment of whether there is sufficient reason to do so. We've seen that. I understand that there is a few here who blame me for a low rate of success, because only eleven times such a decision has been taken with regard to seven people. I guess it's just a high success rate, you'd almost say. We have always said: the bar is very high for this. I really agree with Mrs Kathmann that at that local level you have to weigh everything up. There may be too little money for psychosocial aid once in a while. I don't know. I think that's very sad. But that doesn't make a person a threat to national security. I find it very sad that people at local level say about someone: well, for that and that intervention we do not have the money. Please let them call me, I say on this one in the camera. But if the money isn't going to be there anyway, that would be very sad, then we haven't yet determined that it is a danger to national security. If you'll excuse me, it was a somewhat longer answer. I'll do it shorter. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u83	Mrs Koekkoek also has a question on this point. I hope that all the questions will then be asked on this point. Mrs. Koekkoek.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u84	My question is, I think, on the intersection with the next block, when I have heard the Minister like that. If I understand correctly, we can also see it as some sort of escalation ladder. So we first try at local level all the other measures, and then possibly the measures that are possible under this law. Only where I think the concern is then is that you can only say afterwards in that escalation ladder as a judge: gosh, we may not have taken the right turn after all. Sorry about the long introduction. But couldn't we work on that anymore? I am referring above all to the person who is in that escalation ladder, who is also experiencing it and who also feels 'gosh, I am being restricted', even though they may be proportionate measures at the time. Could we not work to ensure that the person concerned can say earlier in that escalation ladder: wait a minute, I do not feel okay with this; I want a review?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u85	That person may examine that matter before the courts and may apply for interim measures. Look, it's about the decision. So the single thought... forgive me for suggesting it a little visual. But suppose I, as a minister, stare out the window and look out for Scheveningen or something and say: yes, yes, it might be something to apply such a measure here. That doesn't help the person in question. I have a decision to make. I have to stand for what I do. I'm gonna have to motivate that, too. Then that one... that's happened a few times. At that time, provisional measures were also requested. So you can go to court very quickly if you want to. An administrative decision must be a decision. That can't be a "I think about something." That's how it's supposed to work in a rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u86	I can see that. Otherwise, if there is no decision or objection, you cannot appeal. However, the point is more that it is at the end of that ladder, and that the person concerned must take the step to the court of provision himself. That's a big step for a lot of people. That is precisely what we have seen in other cases where many people could have been affected, regardless of the implementation organisation involved. We have seen that the step to the judge is not always obvious. Hence the question: wouldn't it be much better to include in this law that interventions are possible in that escalation ladder?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u87	I say again: the best behavior intervention would be if someone said: better halfway... What was it again? The best behavior intervention would be if someone said, "I'm going to put aside my thoughts." I welcome that intervention at every stage of the situation. But the point is... I like that Mrs Koekkoek introduced that word of escalation, because that is how I see it. First locally with one party, then together. Then it goes to nationwide, to the department. And then I finally have to say "yes" or "no." And it is only at that time, with the whole consideration and motivation that has been there, that you can speak of a decision. I know the care of people who have played in certain cases and in one very big affair. But I do see here that the individuals involved were just able to find the hallway to the judge. And I would like to say out loud that I also think that the Minister of Justice and Security, in such a situation, should make it possible, precisely because it is a decision of that Minister, that if someone wants to go to court, he should be able to go to court. So I'd like to say that here and there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u88	The Minister continues his speech. No, I didn't. Mrs Ellemeet would like to ask something, still on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u89	This is exactly the point on which I have tabled an amendment. I continue to find this extremely unsatisfactory. When it was discussed in 2016, the criticism was that it is still a very vague concept: "related to something," "related to terrorist activities." The strength of the law is precisely that you know exactly what grounds are being tested, that the public is being made public and that the judge plays an important role in that. So why not standardize the judicial review now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u90	That would be very special under state law, because it would then become a judicial decision. Whether that measure is imposed will then be a judicial decision. Just for a moment, there was an interesting debate between your Members. Mr Van Nispen said: the government is coming up with this bill. It was rightly said: but the Chamber asked for it. But I have to admit that I do not like to do so with Mr Van Nispen..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's how it is. Otherwise it would have suddenly become an initiative law and it is not. I do think I agree with the moral and parliamentary view of those who say that it was an initiative of the Chamber, but nevertheless. Now, over here. If you're gonna make an administrative decision, you're gonna have to stand up for it. Then that's your decision with all the consequences of that. If you are going to include in the law that it is a judicial decision, then we should ask the judge whether we can impose it. The law itself says it: it is the Temporary Law that is best for you to take measures to combat terrorism. It's a responsibility of the board. I'm not gonna put that in court, not even from your room. Once again, I would like to respond to Mrs Ellemeet in the sense that the law provides for the possibility of an accelerated judgment by the judge. The judge can decide how much time he needs to do that. The gravity of the measure will, of course, be taken into account, as it will in some cases be much more severe. So far I have answered a number of questions about the observations of the WODC, but here the WODC has not identified any problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u91	Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u92	Moreover, I do not want to leave Mrs Ellemeet in suspense: I will discourage the amendment for this reason. It's kind of courteous to just say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u93	Yes. The amendment in part No. 10 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u94	The importance of administrative measures is that they are foreseeable and that you know on what grounds they are being reviewed. The complicated thing is that rather vague concepts, vague definitions, are used. It is therefore not foreseeable for a human being on what grounds these measures are taken. The Minister and I differ on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u95	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u96	I just wanted to clear it up a little bit, to be of service.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u97	It wasn't a question. It was an observation. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u98	Mr. Chairman. Let me finish the questions about the WODC first, because then we've all had them. Mrs Koekkoek van Volt asked: why not evaluate annually? Too few measures are imposed each year to make a meaningful assessment. Once again, I think that is only a good thing. When assessing whether the case concerned led to the need to protect national security. That is quite an understanding, so for a broader view you really need to be able to compare a number of cases. Mrs Ellemeet had a question about the presentation of the findings of the WODC and said that the Council of State says that it is empirically impossible to investigate whether the measures to prevent attacks also contribute to national security. I do not think there is a one-sided representation of the findings of the WODC investigation. The purpose of the law is to promote deradicalisation and to get in touch with those involved, I say to Mrs Ellemeet. The WODC says that the added value of the Twbmt for the personal approach is limited, but the purpose of the law, as indicated in the policy response to this research, is always the protection of national security. Disengagement can only be an additional effect. I say quite honestly that I find it extremely difficult to measure this. The conclusion of the WODC therefore does not fit very well with the purpose of the law. Moreover, the WODC concludes that the obligation to notify has meant that the persons concerned have remained in the sight of the public authorities and that they have not been in the area concerned in the event of an area ban. So that works in principle. So much for that point. Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Bikker had another question about the restraining order. The WODC concludes that the prohibition of contact led to no physical meetings. That's exactly what we were supposed to do. At that time, it has been recognised that this does not hinder online contact, but physical contact is really of a different nature than online contact, as anyone who, like this minister, is currently doing a lot of things through Webex, Microsoft Teams or Zoom, will endorse. I have all these explanations here as to why physical contact is very different, but I would like to spare you that at this hour of the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u99	If I forget that this is about restricting fundamental rights, I could go a long way with the Minister. Whether the law is something more or less effective, every piece contributes to solving the problem. That sounds very reasonable. But the whole point of this debate is that we are talking about restricting freedoms. That's very far-reaching. That is why we must weigh very heavily whether such a law is proportionate and the appropriate instrument. The WODC concludes that the expectations of the functioning of the law have largely not been met. Most of them didn't come true. If you consider that it is about restricting fundamental rights, I would ask the Minister to reflect on that again, because that is not nothing. This is very far-reaching. We're not gonna do that soon. It was a temporary law, because the threat picture was very high. Surely we all have to take that into account when extending such a law or not? I haven't heard the Minister sufficiently clearly about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u100	I have just said on a few points why I do not think the conclusions of the WODC are entirely in line with the purpose of the law. For example, I said that the WODC is very much concerned with the success of the personal approach, but the purpose of the law is much more concerned with national security. That's the weighting, too. But let me make it very clear... This brings me back to proportionality. If you were to replace that last piece, namely "so far as national security is not at risk," with "so far as a successful person-oriented approach is concerned," I would not consider that to be proportionate to such an administrative area ban. But I think you can impose that if you say, "a commitment to possible terrorist activities in such a way that national security is at risk." That's the heavy weighing point. It is a fine research, but the WODC takes a slightly different path. People look very closely at this personal approach, but again: that is not the purpose of the law. I cannot maintain here that it is proportionate to impose a land ban on a person because he or she has given some guidance advice or no longer participates in a deradicalisation course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u101	Then let me rephrase. Does the Minister agree with me that, when it comes to such far-reaching legislation and the restriction of fundamental rights, we should be very keen on the danger of this sliding scale, that soap slope? That is because you get used to the instruments you have, which restrict fundamental rights, and you are looking for other arguments to legitimize that you are continuing to use them. Does the Minister share my group's concern about this? Does he agree that we need to be super, super alert when it comes to restricting fundamental rights, and that we need to be very strict on the criteria on which we decide whether or not to extend it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u102	The short answer is yes. Let me put that in front of you right now. I think that if fundamental rights are to be restricted, you should always look at the interests involved. The law says in a number of fundamental fundamental rights: except for everyone's responsibility for the law. We should not talk about whether we will have a constitutional review in the future. But then, as happens in Germany, a judge will always judge whether it is in conformity with the constitution. We will all agree, I hope, that the regulation contained in the law on fishing, for example, is basically also a restriction of your fundamental rights so that you can simply move freely and throw out a stick with a string somewhere. I'm insulting a lot of family members who are doing that right now. That's right. But that weighs less than you get a ban on entering an entire area. That is something that needs to be looked at carefully in our legislative process. I think we're doing the same thing to each other. We are doing this with a law that has had a temporary duration, which has been evaluated, and which we say can be even better, but at least it has been applied very little and carefully. I say of that: I think that's a success rate. If there is a minister here who says "ha, 250 land bans people, maybe we'll tap the 300 this year," then you're completely wrong about the restriction of fundamental rights. But I will return to an earlier part of the answer to Mrs Koekkoek and Mrs Ellemeet in the toolbox as one of the instruments. You have to apply that balanced. The judge can really test that in an accelerated procedure. The judge said a while ago: no, Minister, for that reason you do not have sufficient justification and I reverse the decision you made, or I destroy it. I think we still have a good, boring rule of law in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u103	Finalizing, Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u104	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. It wasn't supposed to. It wasn't part of the toolbox until we decided by way of exception that we would add it temporarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u105	Yes, but legislation and legislative instruments are evolving. I'm not gonna go through the metaphor of the toolbox. But the electric hand drill was there 50 years ago when I was already on earth certainly not yet in it. It's developing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u106	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u107	This is exactly what I'm talking about. This is the very essence of my speech. The minister is now going to compare it to an electric hand drill. We are talking here about the restriction of fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u108	Well, we both talked about a toolbox. I believe that we can continue this metaphor without any malicious intent. But I'll leave him out of it, if that bothers a member. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u109	We are not necessarily talking about restricting fundamental rights. We are talking about protecting the Netherlands and limiting terrorism. That is exactly what my question is about. The minister just said something interesting. He said, "Last time I wanted to take such a measure, but the judge whistled me back," if I understood correctly. I would like to ask the Minister: what happens next? Because according to the Minister's judgement, and the services behind the Minister, such a person was dangerous enough. He wanted to take a measure. The judge said, no, you can't do that. What's that? We also know that the AIVD has too few resources and men to follow all persons who are dangerous continuously. So I ask the Minister whether he can explain what he does if he wants to act in his opinion, but the judge still forbids him from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u110	Mr Markuszower and I had a good debate on this in November 2019. It is not the case that there are too few people, but we do not want a society in which, so to speak, everyone on the street is followed by their own AIVD. Of course, we must apply a very clear form of not only proportionality, but above all subsidiarity. Now let's get back to the point of what we're gonna do next. I believe that next Thursday we are going to discuss in detail how the counter-terrorism policy in the Netherlands is taking shape on a number of points. I agree with what Mr Markuszower says: we must not weaken national security vigilance when it comes to individuals who pose a threat to it because we have taken measures. Mr. Chairman. Then I had Mrs Kuik's question about the formulation of the working arrangements. Has the evaluation report been leading in this respect? The cabinet response to the evaluation clearly indicates, I think, that with the chain partners the possibilities for improving implementation practice would be explored. A working party followed that up. The aim of this working group was to establish joint working arrangements to remove the bottlenecks in implementation practice. In addition, it has been agreed that it is and will continue to be important to review those working arrangements on an ongoing basis with regard to their activities. That brings me to the escalation model that Mrs Koekkoek referred to. So we need to put that right in all the links and phases. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kathmann and Mrs Van der Werf pointed out that the use of the law leads to large time investments. I recognize that. I've already made an advance on the answer I'm about to give a few times. Yes, I think a careful weighting is important here. If I didn't do this with my officials, I wouldn't have had to do it once, but I would have had every eleven or ten of the 11 times the judge gave me a tap on fingers, or whatever you want to call it. Or at least the judge would have destroyed the decisions. I think there should be time in that too. But that applies to many of the measures and methods you want to use in this domain. A desire to deradicalise a young person who, for example, has gone into extremely terrorist right-wing ideas simply requires a great deal of intensive attention. We have to realize that. These are processes that are indeed labour intensive. That is what we need to do for national security, but also in general, to ensure that this kind of extremist, terrorist idea in our society gets as little as possible or preferably no breeding ground in our society. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Bikker spoke about the district agents. I thought I'd said a few things about that. I assume that's sufficiently clear. You have to do this complementary to each other in the various areas. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of questions about supervision. The Dutch Data Protection Authority is the controller of the processing of personal data. The Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism applies all the rules contained in the GDPR and the GDPR Implementing Decision. That is the legal review framework. The Wiv has its own framework and its own monitoring mechanism, but this has to do with the specific tasks of the services. That is not the case in this case. If the measures are sufficiently foreseeable, Mrs Ellemeet asked. The provisions of the law are relatively open in nature, but nevertheless sufficiently foreseeable, since the standard concerns the conduct of the person concerned. Those behaviours should demonstrate whether they can be linked to or support terrorist activities. I think this is important. You read in article 83a what a terrorist target is. In short, it is about scaring the people seriously, putting enormous pressure on the government to do something or not or disrupt fundamental national structures. Serious violence or threats of serious violence are often added to this in literature. That is the definition that I consider strictly with the officials when we examine it at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u111	A brief question about that surveillance. Surely the Minister does not deny that the Dutch Data Protection Authority cannot monitor the processing of special personal data in the same way as the CTIVD can, for example, with the security services? This is really about access to the files and the guarantees: we still have the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the GDPR rules, so that it always goes. That does not seem to me to be enough for a new provision as inserted by the Minister with 7a and 7b, whereas this is actually just an extension law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u112	We really need to be careful. I'll come back to that justified question about race and ethnicity. There is plenty of legislation in which the processing of personal data is reported. I take a small advance on Mrs van der Werf's answer on this: you have to do that, because when you receive certain data, there are all kinds of personal data in it. You may not make use of this for your decision, but it is in a lot of legislation to make it possible for a particular government or authority to obtain that data. The AP checks whether the processing of personal data is just going well, so according to the rules. Furthermore, we have talked enough about the fact that a decision by this Minister must be reasoned and is subject to judicial review. That's just a government measure that's being independently reviewed. That is quite different from powers under the Wiv, which, as Mr Van Nispen knows, has a very specific character and therefore a whole oversight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u113	I know, but that's why I'm asking this question. This is a labour-intensive process. We've known that since the WODC report, or we've known that before. It is a large file with information from many sides, including possible special personal data on the basis of which the Minister can make a decision. Is the Minister saying here that the Personal Data Authority is exactly allowed in those files and that she can review and look at all of them, as thoroughly as, for example, similar to that, I know that it is otherwise the CTIVD can do so with the security services? I think there is a considerable difference. That is the question I asked. So I'm worried about that. The Minister doesn't agree with me on all that. That's fine, but there's still a difference between the extent to which the Dutch Data Protection Authority can and can monitor and how the CTIVD can do that in the case of security services, for example, wherever this type of files with special personal data are concerned? I see a very indignant minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u114	No, not outraged, because that's not how Mr Van Nispen and I treat each other. He and I both know that. I don't know what to call that in a fruit basket, but we're really comparing two different quantities in this fruit basket. The Wiv is concerned with all kinds of collusive powers or at least highly confidential powers. This is a decision of the minister who immediately hears the justification, assuming that the postman is immediately on his moped. It is therefore possible to bring an action directly before the courts. Otherwise, I would like to mention something that comes to mind, for example, the granting of weapons licences, including the processing of personal data, which is neatly mentioned in the law... CTIVD is also not competent. It cannot be the case that an otherwise excellent supervisory body, which is very focused on the services, should monitor everything that results from all kinds of legislation in relation to personal data. Because if you argue very consistently, it should apply to every law. I'll decide that openly. That can be checked in court. That's a lot different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u115	Perhaps then, as a counterpart, I have the following open question to the Minister: to what extent is the Minister being hindered by that GDPR when tracking down terrorists or controlling that threat of terrorism? Does that AGV get in the way of the minister and, if so, in what areas? If that is the case, it might be advisable to ask the Minister for a letter on this now, in preparation for the debate we are having next week. Surely it cannot be that the GDPR, which I believe has come from Europe, is hindering us in tracking down terrorists and controlling the danger posed by terrorists?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u116	Let us begin by establishing that in the Netherlands we have a rule of law which we have long been in existence and which has developed very gradually. That rule of law has the principle of separation of powers. In a scientific article by Professor Van Bijsterveld, former Member of Parliament for the CDA, last week I came across the observation that we should not only think of the government in this separation of powers, I must say 'the cabinet', Parliament and the judiciary, but also all kinds of very important institutions that play a role in parliamentary democracy. She mentions, among other things, the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I'm saying that by heart, but I'm not sure. But in any case, I thought of the Personal Data Authority, which simply plays an important role in our rule of law and ensures that there is a proper review of the processing of personal data. Next week we will undoubtedly be discussing in the debate whether there would be any other means or not, but it is not the case that having the Personal Data Authority there is a wrong influence. Because that is precisely an institution of our rule of law that ensures a balanced processing of personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u117	That's a long intro, but a short ending. I actually asked for a letter in preparation for the debate next week, in which the Minister explained what steps he could not take as well as that GDPR. If that's not a single step, if there are no issues that limit the GDPR, then I don't need a letter. But if there are things that work for the Minister of Security, including the Justice Department, and if the GDPR is restrictive, then I would like to read it in a letter so that we can discuss it further next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u118	Mr Markuszower rightly says: the Minister for Justice and Security. Those two are inseparable, too. That means there's always a state-of-the-art weighting. He's with security, and he's with the justice department. This means that the processing of personal data is part of this process, but also the checking of whether the processing of personal data is proportionate and fits within the framework that we as a society want. I think we can have a quiet debate on this next Thursday when there are questions about how that should work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u119	Yeah, that's what you're gonna do next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u120	Yes. It goes a little too far for me to write a letter about what should happen less or more. Mr. Chairman. I hope that Mrs Ellemeet has replied on the issue of predictability. This is really about the definition in the article I mentioned, Article 83a, about violence and the like. Mr. Chairman. Then I have the question about the six-month deadline. Mr Van Nispen says that this is at the border of what is constitutionally permissible. It's a maximum time limit. In a specific case, a shorter period may be sufficient. In any case, this is also involved in proportionality and necessity. I think that is a good thing, because with that it is a clear, maximum time limit. Then, Mr President, Mrs Bikker asked why I consider the power to withdraw decisions necessary. Not all decisions may be refused, but decisions relating to an authorisation, exemption or grant may be refused. The applicant, grant recipient or licence holder must be able to be associated with or support terrorist activities on the basis of his conduct. This simply aims to prevent unwanted facilitation of terrorist activities. It hasn't been applied yet. But even if it is not yet, it is still an instrument that can be useful. Mrs van der Plas' question was also about how many people could be covered by a law. I've already answered that question. I am looking in her direction, but I think we have already said the necessary things. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to all the issues that I have already dealt with in the debate, for example proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u121	Perhaps you could comment on Mrs Van der Werf's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u122	Yeah, I'm getting to that now. I really just get to it; it's unbelievable. Mr. Chairman. I have to discourage that amendment. I have already said that it is in line with the point made just now that it has not yet been applied, but that does not mean that it is not useful. It can also be an instrument that fits better in a given situation than, for example, a ban or something similar. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions about the broad approach. In reply to Mrs Kuik, I say that we intend to extend the law again for at least five years. That was actually your Chamber's motion. Again, it's my bill, but that was the wish that came from your room. There is no evidence at present that the law needs to be extended or changed, but I have already told you that we are keeping our finger on the pulse in the implementation practice. I would like to say that the law can be used to protect national security if it can be linked to terrorist activities or their support. I would like to stress that what ideology is behind this is not relevant to the use of the temporary law. Then I come to a point that is in line with that. Mrs Michon asked if I could give a fictional case on the issue of right-wing extremism. I find this difficult in so far as I find that very difficult in the context of the debate. Then I'll come to what I never want to do: like this, then that. If the apples had been pumpkins, Isaac Newton would have had a weighty thing on his head and we would never have had the law of gravity. I find that difficult. I can say, therefore, I would like to take a look at Mrs Kathmann's statement that DTN 55 says that a terrorist attack from the extreme right is imaginable in the Netherlands and that this is mainly due to the involvement of young Dutch men in international, online accelerationist networks. I informed you of this on 26 October last. It is a very important point of attention, that of alerting supporters of these networks. Because it's happening a lot online and on a private part of the Internet, it's just really hard. But priority for us is to invest in the upcoming period in identifying these cases online. This will increase the visibility of this case and become much more concrete. I hope that Mrs Michon will really forgive me if I am not going to fictitiousise a case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u123	I understand that, but I was talking about right-wing extremism, because it is happening a lot online. Do I understand correctly from the Minister's answer that he says that we use online for case or file building, do I understand that so well? If the measures laid down in this law do not necessarily apply to right-wing extremist terrorism, so to speak? Because I find that complicated to imagine, because there are also many expressions online. I understand it has to be in width, but I'd still like to hear a little more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u124	No, what I said, we're going to talk about that next week is that it's the absolute priority for the coming period to invest in the online identification of this case. Then the vision will also become clearer. Let's get that straight. But I really want to emphasise to Mrs Michon that if there is extreme right-wing terrorist activity or support for it, the Twbmt can also be used in accordance with the procedures as we know it. Mr. Chairman. I shall then come to Mrs Kathmann's questions. Once again, next week I may be talking about this a little bit longer. But this Twbmt was the result of the Integral Approach Jihadism Action Programme. That action programme clearly aimed at tackling terrorism, including jihadism. At that time, jihadism was the most important threat. I don't think there's a pin in that. But the terrorist threat in and against the Netherlands is changing. Then I refer again to the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, which indicates the necessary about that. But it's not like we never looked at it, or we just left it there. I would like to contradict that very briefly. The point has been that the urgency and concern about it have simply increased considerably. At least I can see that. In the just over four years I've been standing here, I've actually seen that happen. That's not what I mean, but you really should read back the old threat footage. You will really see that this has gradually come to your attention. Care and urgency have just increased considerably in recent years. Mr. Chairman. Mrs van der Plas asked me how I dealt with the responsibilities of the temporary law. I think I have said something about this a number of times in the various answers. I hope Mrs van der Plas has heard that I think it should be weighed very carefully. It is an important restriction of freedom, but it is necessary for national security. That is to say, if that is very clear, then that decision must also be taken. Mr. Chairman. We've already talked about the one-year extension. At least we're going to evaluate it sooner than we would otherwise. Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, a number of members also asked about the processing of personal data. What is the need to process race or ethnicity? I think there's been a misunderstanding. The basis for the processing of special personal data is included, as the GDPR requires an explicit basis for this. It cannot be excluded that administrative reporting at any given time contains data that can be traced back to race or ethnicity. I have already explained this to your Chamber in a letter of inquiry of late May 2021. It happens. Well, then you're gonna have to take this. This may be the case, for example, if you have a report from which country someone comes or in which group they are. From this you can then derive the data about e.g. ethnicity. There are misunderstandings about this data processing, because it is not the end in itself. It's an unintentional consequence of other information. But you'll get that data inside. Since the entry into force of the GDPR, moving insight ensures that we simply report this in various laws. I understand the point made by Mrs Van der Werf and Mrs Kathmann. That is why I say very clearly that the data is not relevant at all to the imposition of the measure. But the fact that they're in the file, or that there's something about it, we have to report it. Then, of course, you say "yes," or at least, I can imagine: yes, but how do we know if that data is not included in the file? That is, of course, very simple, because it is apparent from the reasons for the decision and because that decision is then examined by the court as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u125	Thank you for that answer. If this is true, I don't understand one thing. If that basis is so necessary, or if that possibility really has to be so, why did the government choose to take that basis out of the law when amending a state law on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship after criticism by the Council of State? This is, of course, a law that is many times heavier in terms of administrative action. There it would not be necessary to be able to do so, and it would be necessary for this law to be able to do so. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u126	I will return to that in a letter in the coming week. I really should check that out. The only thing I can imagine, but I have to say that very carefully... no, I'll see if I can say anything about it in the second term. I just grabbed Article 7a. I know that I had this discussion with your Chamber for the first time in October 2018, when it was about the Arms and Ammunitions Act. That's when the exact same thing came out. These are data showing racial or ethnic origin, political, religious or philosophical beliefs. This isn't about using it. There's no authorization for that. The GDPR prohibits the processing of that data. This means that there will be processing as soon as the file enters an official's office and enters the file. There's data from which you can derive this, without being called directly. Once again, the concern of your Chamber is directed towards it, so I taste it whether those data play any role in the measure. Of that, I say very clearly: no, they do not matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u127	Mrs. Van der Werf. There will be another answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u128	I would just like to make it clear that, of course, my question was not about this. I think it is very good that the Minister is explaining again what this is supposed to be. That's somewhat reassuring. But of course it is not reassuring at all that it is apparently possible in another, much more far-reaching law to stop doing so, even after formidable criticism by the Council of State. That adjustment wouldn't be possible here. I am therefore mainly concerned with the question: why is this not happening here, when it is happening with the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap? I would very much like a precise answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u129	But in second term. That's what the minister said, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u130	Yeah, I promised. I shall come back to that in the second term. Through you, Mrs Van der Werf, I would like to make it clear to you and to the others who have asked for it: it is only here, because the dossier that brings you from local level to the ministry may contain data showing what a person's race or ethnic origin is. It happens. But it doesn't say here: you can make a decision in which race or ethnic origin plays a role. It doesn't say that, and it should never say that. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u131	Mrs Koekkoek is still on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u132	I had a specific question about those particular personal data that come in as by-catch. If they enter as by-catch, will they be destroyed immediately? I am asking for this in particular because Article 7b provides for a retention period of up to five years. That's pretty long. By comparison, with the Wiv it's a year and a half. Isn't that five-year period too long when we store personal data? This applies especially to special personal data. Will they be destroyed immediately if it is really pure by-catch?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u133	Again, it's not a bycatch. It is a totally unwelcome catch, I would almost say. And that's why it says, which is why it can be seen. You may have to keep the data from which this may appear for a certain period of time. If, for example, that shows a certain political conviction, then so be it. But again, that has nothing to do with the measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u134	Mrs. Koekkoek, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u135	That's clear to me too, but it's what's going to happen in the end. In addition, the retention period of five years is again five years, for comparison: with the Wiv it is one and a half years, while you want to keep special personal data with you as short as possible. Hence the question: is that proportionate, is that necessary and is there a way to make a better distinction in that? So also there is the question of proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u136	I find it very difficult that, for the second time, one of the Members of this House is fine that we are having an open discussion, and that we are calling for a law that takes place in another domain and has a very different kind of purpose. Then you should look at other legislation, such as the Arms and Ammunitions Act and so on. You will see that in principle there are longer retention periods. It is specifically mentioned, not because... It does have a purpose to keep the data in question for a certain period of time. In fact, this would allow the things that might emerge from this to be preserved for a little longer. But it is not something that is being done to which your Chamber, let me say, rightly so: is ethnic origin going to have any significance for the decision? No. Those data are needed for a somewhat longer time, but against the comparison with the Wiv I oppose in all courtesy, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u137	Okay, but you'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u138	I'll come back to that state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u139	Exactly. That sounds good to me. I actually want to go to the second term. You have them all. One last question from Mrs Koekkoek.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u140	I am not interested in comparing different laws. I understand that very well. A more concrete question than: why is this retention period five years? I made that comparison purely and simply to clarify the weight of special personal data. The five-year retention period is quite long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u141	I'm just gonna get the article. Let me just read it out: they will be destroyed as soon as they are no longer necessary for the exercise of the powers under this law, at least five years after processing. That means that it could be so I do not know that... we have had one case in which the measure has been extended several times. But if a measure is not renewed... This can be done in the Acts: if a measure has been imposed once and is not renewed, I assume that the data can be destroyed quite soon after, because they are no longer necessary. But we have to take a look at that. That's the meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u142	Clear. This brings the Minister to the end of his first term. I have already heard one of the Members speak of a possible motion, but I must ask formally whether there is a need for a second deadline. Because you don't have to. It's a right and not a duty. I see people nodding. Then we'll move on to the second term immediately. Mr Markuszower does not wish to do so. The first speaker is Mrs Koekkoek again, whom I would like to give the floor immediately for her second term. It speaks on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for all the answers. I still have my doubts about this monitoring and the escalation ladder; the Minister will not be surprised. Not to make an unfair comparison, but in other ways of succession, for example in criminal law, we have a judge commissioner. When it comes to the services, we have a TIB that tests in advance and a CTIVD that tests during and afterwards. I am therefore looking for ways of monitoring and monitoring the measures provided for by this law more often. That is why I specifically asked about the retention period of the personal data, because it remains unclear to me why that period was chosen. If, moreover, the Minister agrees that in all cases the data will be destroyed immediately at the time that can be done and we can write it out more clearly, I would be able to do so very well. I do have another motion, which is about keeping an eye on the mid-term review. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the necessity and proportionality of extending the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism are not clearly established;]] [[Considering that the intention is to extend the temporary law for a period of five years, with an evaluation within two and a half years of its entry into force, as the Minister considers that this is the only way to properly evaluate the temporary law;]] [[Considering that the Minister has had experience with the temporary law since 2017 and that these experiences can be involved to make a real assessment of the law;]] [[invites the Government, if the temporary act is extended, to review the temporary act annually on the basis of the experience available up to that time, in order to examine whether the temporary measures are still necessary and proportionate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35917-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u144	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I can't say that my doubts have been removed. In particular, on two points, I did not think that the answer was sufficient. The Minister has not been able to justify, on several occasions, the need to be able to process race and ethnicity. The fact that he's getting those facts is, of course, different from the fact that he's going to store those facts. That is why I have just tabled an amendment to delete those elements from the basis. Thus, the law would also be consistent with the basis for the processing of special personal data with regard to the Rijkswet op het verwachting van het Nederlanderschap. The cabinet itself proposes to do so. In addition, D66 is convinced with the WODC that if the criminal lawman deliberately does not impose any measures after conviction, that decision should not be crossed by administrative measures. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the evaluation of the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism (Twbmt), the WODC states that this law is used to impose measures on those convicted of terrorism in situations where it is either no longer possible to do so through criminal law or the criminal court has deliberately chosen not to impose criminal measures;]] [[Whereas, with regard to the first situation, the Government has announced that it will amend the Wlt in such a way that it is explicitly included that the criminal court may also impose an independent behavioral and freedom-limiting measure on those convicted of terrorism, following the termination of the prison sentence or conditional release;]] [[whereas, with regard to the second situation, criminal law in our rule of law is considered to be an ultimatum remedium, and that if the criminal court decides not to impose measures, that decision should not be crossed by administrative measures;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in cases where the criminal court is aware of the possibility of imposing measures, it is no longer possible to impose administrative measures in breach of that choice of the criminal court through the Twbmt,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Werf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35917-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u145	Mr. Chairman. I see I have some time left. Finally, I would like to make one last plea for the issue of workload, which I mentioned in the first term. My concerns have not been removed at that particular point. Are we going to allow those who have such an important profession to spend so much time on measures that are so rarely used? I would like to end my speech, but I see Mrs Ellemeet standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u146	I think he has another question about your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u147	Well, actually, about my amendment. Because we tabled the same amendment together in 2016, and I was wondering if this amendment could be supported by D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u148	I can imagine that, but I dare not say that out of my head, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u149	Fine. That's what we're gonna hear at another time. Thank you for your contribution in second term. The next speaker will be Mr Van Nispen, who will speak on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u150	Thank you. Protecting national security is of the utmost importance. There can be no doubt about that, but the question we now have to answer, or indeed at the time of the vote, is: does this law now effectively contribute to the protection of national security? The honest answer to that is: we do not know. It can't be established. That is what the Minister himself says: we cannot establish the causal link. We have no evidence that criminal offences have been prevented by that Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism. But, the Minister says, we can say that the measures contribute to making terrorist activities more difficult. I find it difficult when the Minister says so. That raises the question: why? Because if there were concrete clues, you could have used criminal law. And if those concrete clues weren't there, then you have no proof that you prevented anything. Then about the quantities. So there are seven individuals with 11 measures. Is that a success or not? On the one hand, you could say yes. That is the Minister's line, because apparently we are doing this very sparingly and very carefully and only if there is no other way. But on the other hand you could also say: no, it is not a success, because it is not often necessary and it is also not proven effective. It's just the way you look at it. In any case, I do not think that this is sufficient to justify the extension of a law, which we said a few years ago: do not do wisely, do not do. In fact, I think the arguments for this are only getting stronger now that we have the evaluation study. Finally, Mr President. Those Articles 7a and 7b on the processing of the special personal data. In my view, this is a controversial provision, which we have not discussed sufficiently. Where the hell did it come from? You do not need that provision if you would like to extend a temporary law, as the Chamber has asked the Minister, who is now standing here defending this proposal. That provision is similar to a provision in a law dealing with the processing of personal data by NCTV. A law that we as a Chamber have just declared controversial. I really do not think these provisions belong in this law at all. I am going to look with interest at the D66 amendment. That has all my sympathy in advance. I do not think that supervision is very well organised either. I do not think what Mrs Koekkoek did, and I myself, is very strange, namely to make some comparison with other laws, when it comes to using far-reaching powers in the interests of national security. If the Minister says: yes, but we have the Personal Data Authority to look at, then I really think that is not enough. The Minister's assessment of imposing an administrative measure may be based on state secret information. When it comes to services, I do make that analogy, and we have the AIVD who can look at it very carefully, whether it is all in order and whether it is reasonably possible to reach that conclusion. They have access to that information; I do not think the Personal Data Authority has it, and if it is otherwise, I would like to hear it from the Minister in the second term. I therefore believe that the monitoring of those controversial Articles 7a and 7b is not sufficiently organised, as the Personal Data Authority simply has too incomplete access to that information in order to monitor it properly. I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u151	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Then I'll look at Mrs. Van der Plas. Yeah, she's gonna use her second term. She will again speak on behalf of the BoerCitizen Movement. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u152	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Minister for the answers. We certainly got a little further with that. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism results from a period of different levels of threat;]] [[whereas the terrorist threat is now manifesting itself differently;]] [[calls on the Minister to examine how new forms of terrorist threat can be addressed and what legislation is needed to do so;]] [[invites the Minister to share the results of this examination with the Chamber by 1 July 2022 at the latest;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Michon-Derkzen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35917-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can I get the speaker's chair up a little bit? Otherwise, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna be so giraffey on it. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, this bill is part of a broader strategy in the fight against terrorism. To be honest, I think it is a missed chance that the new counter-terrorism strategy is not yet in place at the end of this year and that we are dealing with this bill. That makes it a slightly floating bill that should be in a broad approach. Anyway, the Minister promised. He also promised that he would come forward with a follow-up to the integrated approach in the spring, which I welcome. It sounds a bit like policy language, but it's how to involve municipalities, but also the national police and so many more partners, precisely in today's challenges. I would ask him to really look at what is needed at this time. We are now also seeing other forms of terrorism and extremism threatening our national legal order. Honestly, there is the tension there with regard to this bill. The Segers/Van Toorenburg motion specifically asked for this bill to be extended, but also added to it to work on the recommendations of the WODC and the personal approach. On this point, I raised a number of critical questions in the first period. Some of it has not yet been fully answered, but it also extends over the coming period, precisely because I think it is important that we have a tailor-made approach. That is why I have tabled a motion with Mrs Kuik. You could call it a "Motion Segers/Van Toorenburg 2.0," but with other signatories. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this legislative proposal contains several major measures and should only be continued if necessary and proportionate;]] [[Whereas the evaluation of the WODC shows that not all measures clearly identify the added value for national security, for example because they have not been used or have been used;]] [[considers that, should future decisions be taken on possible continuation of the law, it is desirable to assess the necessity and proportionality of the individual measures;]] [[calls on the Government to define separately the conditions under which these measures are to be maintained for each of the five measures provided for in this Act;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the WHOC to review this during the evaluation, and to involve itself in decision-making on possible continuation of the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism, and to report to the Chamber on this in due course,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35917-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u154	I think that this motion also does justice to one of the comments of the Council of State, which pointed out precisely to the evaluation of the WODC that it is important that this evaluation should be targeted. For a follow-up, this is a lesson that we can take with us as a Chamber, but we are very kindly helping the Minister with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u155	Thank you. You will have another question from Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u156	I am a little surprised, because Mrs Bikker's input was quite critical. I do not understand very well on the basis of which she understands that she has sufficient certainty about the need for measures to be able to vote for the temporary law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u157	In my perception of the bill, the answer is a little more grayish than Mrs Ellemeet is now describing. I have indicated that on a number of measures, I believe that the Minister has not given sufficient substance to the Segers/Van Toorenburg motion. That also means that I am not standing here as a cheering supporter of this bill. I'm looking for what's appropriate for this moment. I also see the challenge we have at the moment, for example with passengers back home. As far as I'm concerned, the bill was more fit to the new situation. It does, for example, mean that a ban on areas can sometimes be very useful. I see applications where it can be very useful. That's why I'm afraid to say it now: you shouldn't extend the law. I am going to put it back in my group, because my first term was not so critical for nothing. I give the Minister very clearly what is important to me, especially if we continue to judge this law. It contains a lot of criticism, but not the harsh conclusion that Mrs Ellemeet had hoped to hear at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u158	Let me be clear: I respect the balance that Mrs Bikker herself makes. I'm just making it different. I think the risks and the impact on fundamental rights are too great to vote in favour in case of doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u159	I understand that, but I still want to say something about that. It is annoying that I debated this in another place, on the other side of the Binnenhof, which still existed at the time. We see that all kinds of counterterrorist measures and laws have been introduced. All of these have been separate laws, all of which are evaluated separately. It is precisely this accumulation that I think is important in view of the question: how do we deal with freedoms? I asked the Minister at the time with a Chamberwide supported motion that is the First Chamber; sorry for the confusion about it... to evaluate that. That evaluation is under way. I think that is a very appropriate time to look at the criminal justice framework as well. That's what's wrong with this. Look at the whole thing: what is a sensible sequel? Then you can take on the new counter-terrorism strategy. Then you can see what you need for this time. In the meantime, this law is going to pass. That's where the tension is. I think that we are really going to continue this debate at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u160	Thank you for your input. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Kathmann. You don't need a second term? Mrs. Kuik? No? Then we have reached the end of the second term of office. The Minister will take a look at the four motions tabled and the new amendment to item No. 12. I'm about to suspend for five minutes. I would just like to say to the Minister that an unnamed club in an unnamed European competition went into peace and quiet, so I hope it will end well tonight. I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u161	We need the final, second term on the part of the Cabinet, the Minister for Justice and Security, on the Temporary Act on administrative measures to combat terrorism in connection with the extension of its duration. The abbreviation is Twbmt. That is not the easiest abbreviation we have noticed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u162	Especially if you don't like abbreviations!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u163	That, too. I give the Minister the opportunity to respond to the amendment still tabled and the four motions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u164	I'm also going to answer a few questions, Mr. Chairman. I hope you still want to afford me... You made an allusion to sports and politics at the end of the second term of the Chamber, and I confused almost two things. Once, in 1956, during a Tour de France, the Mannès France cabinet fell, on which the radio studio reported that Mendès France fell. The reporter on the back of the bike said: I'm not wearing any names; I need back numbers! So we see how complicated these two can be. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I come to the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 11. That is Mrs Koekkoek's motion. "Yearly" is really too short a period to be able to evaluate properly. So I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. But I have said this and I would like to repeat that. First of all, we are going to evaluate every two and a half years. That's really shorter. And I come... At least, the Minister of JenV will come in the spring with a report on how it went integrally with all those instruments. I would also like to say, through your chairman, to Mrs Koekkoek: yes, I am prepared to state here, under Article 7b, that in all these cases we will really see to it that data is destroyed as soon as they are no longer necessary for the exercise of powers. Then Mr Van Nispen. I would like to comment on Mr Van Nispen's 'how so' question. Mr Van Nispen is a well-known connoisseur of street language. But here's what I'm gonna do. I repeat what I said earlier. A proven description of a crime is really different from concrete evidence of certain behaviour, terrorist behaviour, which is such that national security is at risk, and so on. A proven description of a crime must always be strictly within that description. We know the nulla poena sine causa. So that's different from the test that comes with administrative measures. Once again, there is also the possibility of an accelerated court, and this also applies to the principle of proportionality, which, thanks to Mrs Koekkoek, we have talked about a lot with each other. Mr. Chairman. I'll move on to the motions. The motion in part No. 13 belongs to Mrs Van der Werf. That motion fits in nicely with this. I must also advise against this motion, because the criminal law of the Long-Term Supervision Act has a very different purpose than the administrative measures of the Twbmt. So I advise against that motion. Mrs van der Plas' motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u165	One moment, because Mrs Van der Werf would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u166	I do not quite understand that the Minister is dissuading the motion, because in the first part of the motion, at the time of the observation, it says that at the moment there would be a gap and that certain things would not be caught by criminal law, it is still possible to use this Twbmt. This motion merely serves to prevent a criminal judgment from being crossed by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u167	I really need to... I don't want to sound too condescending. I have just explained that this law sees a measure which is completely outside criminal law and which is also outside the proven statement, the evidence that is very strict in criminal law. This law is aimed at protecting national security, not at retribution and repression that criminal law sees in the concrete case. For example, a decision of the criminal court cannot refer a claim to the civil court, to name but a few. Those are really very different flows in the rule of law. So we can't connect the two of them. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u168	Mrs. Van der Werf, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u169	At the risk that I really don't understand, but if what he's saying is true, he could just embrace the motion, right? Because that's exactly what the request says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u170	I would like to quote the request: calls on the government to ensure that, in cases where the criminal court is aware of the possibility of imposing measures, it is no longer possible to impose administrative measures in breach of that choice of the criminal court through the Twbmt. The criminal judge in criminal proceedings. That decision to take measures in the context of criminal proceedings after a very sharp description of the offence, for example Article 83a, has been proven. That is the framework in which the criminal justice system is in place. The administrative judge shall review an administrative measure. That is why I said earlier in the debate with Mrs Kathmann or Mrs Ellemeet that this is an administrative decision rather than a court decision. That's what this driver is responsible for. The judge may destroy or reverse that decision, but that is in the administrative category where the test is not the Code of Criminal Law but national security. Then I come back to it: that is why there is a huge proportionality test in this. Let's say I'm going to introduce a proportionality test into the criminal justice system in case of a proven statement, like: well, if it's plausible, then we'll just have to punish him. You can't do that. You really need a description of the crime for that. I wanted to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u171	Yes. Then the motion to part No. 14 by Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u172	In the motion in part No. 14 request Ms Van der Plas and Ms Michon-Derkzen to examine how new forms of terrorist threat can be overcome and what legislation is necessary for that purpose, and to share that investigation with the Chamber by 1 July 2022 at the latest. That sounds good to me, so I can give her judgment room, and I'll see if I can even answer it sooner, based on that first report. But 1 July 2022 must certainly succeed. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u173	Bikker/Kikker on piece No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u174	...in part No. 15 members Bikker and Kuik. That seems to me, when I read her like that, to be a sensible motion. It calls for each of the five measures provided for in the law to be examined separately in the evaluation. That's how I understand her. I didn't think of it myself, but I think that's wise, so I'm giving her judgment room. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs van der Werf's amendment. I checked that out in the state law. Indeed, we have not done so much. It is also good in the explanatory statement to the amendment, but what is going on there is that in the AIVD posts there is no data on race and ethnicity. That is why it is said that it is not a problem to remove it from that state law, because the fact that these things come along with it is not a problem that stands in the way of the necessary exercise of powers under that law. So there's just a difference between the two laws that explains why things went differently there. That is why I must simply discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u175	I thank the Minister for that explanation. I would like to clarify one more point. I am not so much concerned that this information should come to him or to the Ministry. My point is more that you could choose not to store this part of that information. Why would you store race and ethnicity if it is not necessary and if in that other situation it is not even necessary that that information should come to him?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u176	No, in that other situation, that information doesn't come along. Here's the annoying thing, or whatever you want to call it, that there's gonna be a file that reports cases. That could prove someone's religious beliefs. That information can also show what a person's race is. That information does not affect the question of whether a measure should be imposed, but I have to report in law that a personal data file is being processed where it is contained. I need to explicitly report that in the law. I expressly stated in my first term, I repeat, once again, that race or ethnicity should in no way play a role in imposing the measures. I say that again, and I hope that will take away that concern. But I do need this article of law, because someone else can say: you had a file and there was one in it. I can say "yes, but I never used it," but then the person can say: yes, but you shouldn't have had it. That's why it has to be reported in the law. If you come home tonight and you don't have a hobby, you can look it up in, for example, the Arms and Ammo Act. You'll see it's in all those laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u177	Mrs. Van der Werf, really last.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u178	I'm gonna go home a little less reassured, but she's gonna be like that. I would like to point out that in another situation it seems that it has not been possible to do so. I would also like to make the following point. I am not explicitly concerned with religious beliefs. That's another point. What matters to me is race and ethnicity. I mentioned the example of the premium affair. I see a very high risk in storing that information and therefore not in the fact that the Minister gets it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u179	Before I begin my final speech, in which I would like to say a word of thanks to your Chamber, I would like to say the following. I believe that all the members of the cabinet, including myself, have already said that we are very concerned about what we saw happening in the supplementing affair. This isn't about thousands of cases. It concerns a very small number in which such a dossier is dealt with and this decision is taken. It is well-motivated and can be reviewed by the judge as soon as possible. I have to report in law that the personal data that are processed may contain data showing what a person's race or ethnicity is. I have said twice now: three times is the charm, so I must not say again that it is not being used. The only thing I can say is that the data that shows that comes with it, whether you like it or not. In the state law it is said: that is not such a point, because the AIVD files do not reveal that kind of thing at all. That's how it is. Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to end by expressing a great deal of gratitude to you, because you have missed 45 minutes of interesting study of an important sport. Apart from that, it was a good debate. I would also like to say this once, because in recent times it has been said here and there that the debates were sometimes different. I really think that we have had a very good substantive debate. We really do not agree on all points and sometimes there is an unfortunate metaphor, but then you switch from "toolbox" to "fruit basket" and then you get on with each other. I would like to thank you very much for being so energetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u180	Thank you for your input. We have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-07-tweedekamer-55.u181	The three amendments and the four motions will be put to the vote on Tuesday 14 December. I would also like to thank the staff of the Minister, the staff of the MPs, the members themselves and, of course, the messengers and the Registry.
