ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u1	Welcome to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The next item is the debate on two legislative proposals: Amendment of the Election Act on the final introduction of the new ballot for voters outside the Netherlands (35670) and the Temporary Experimentation Act on new ballots (35455).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u2	Eight speakers have been registered by the Chamber and I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we have an interesting debate and that is about what the ballot looks like. It's not about the colour on the ballot, it's not about whether you think it's beautiful or ugly, and it's not just about whether it's efficient. The vote is about whether the expression of the electorate's will will will be converted into the parliament representing him or her. That's why a ballot is just a little bit more than a picture. It is precisely that link between the electorate and the elected one who is extremely weak in the Netherlands. In other countries you often have constituencies. In such a constituency you can choose between five or six candidates on a ballot. In Britain, the first to come wins. In France you have two rounds. In the second round there may be only three names on the list and only two in the presidential elections. Then you know exactly who represents you in the representative body, and that's no small matter. Let me take Groningen's example. If you had districts in the Netherlands and there would have been a MP for East Groningen, that MP would most likely have been a MP for the Labour Party in 2012. They were the largest in all of Friesland and Groningen and in large parts of Drenthe, and they had a very small majority in the House of Representatives. Do you know what happens in the British system when one group of people gets totally caught up by the government in one particular constituency? Then one of those parliamentarians gets up. He's banging all the doors. Because if it does not stand up for the earthquake victims, it is almost driven out of his home with pitchforks in his constituency. How different is it in the Netherlands, where it depends on the elites of the parties who get high and who get low on the list. During the last parliamentary elections, it was no different than usual. About 2 MPs were elected who would not have been elected by the list order and the other 148 were chosen by the list order. The new ballot can perpetuate this development. This can make it easier or it can give even more influence to the relatively small group that compiles the electoral list, which is often also associated with the party leader who likes to become a minister himself. If those MPs have to select, they'd rather choose the more docile type. It's not personal at all, but I see some of you thinking, no. That's undesirable. It is undesirable that this band should slacken even further and that is on which we assess the new ballot. I'm taking a little trip to the introduction of voting machines. This has also been done on the grounds of efficiency. The voting machines had nothing to do with a better arrangement of the voting process. The idea was more: at 9:00 p.m. the ballot boxes close, you have to do a few actions and at 9:10 p.m. we can determine the result. That you could eavesdrop on those voting machines, the beeps you voted on, no one would have thought about that. That it is not verifiable and therefore hackable, that was not properly thought out. That is why it is important to think carefully now about how to choose. There are two draft ballots for it. I'll walk them through with you. I just copied them from the minister. So I didn't do anything original today. I have here the first concept. It's the concept that's not going to be used for the time being, but it's in the law. You can get one ballot out of one of the probably 37 cards at the polling station for each batch of plants chosen for the People. But there are a few problems with that. If you have 37 drawers, someone can pull two leaves out of a drawer if you're not careful. Then he can vote twice. If you don't want him to vote twice, you have to check that he doesn't take two out. Then you're already stuck with knowing who's been in what drawer, so you've lost your vote secret. If a drawer is empty, the PVV sheet is empty, and you go to the president of the polling station and say, "There's an empty late" and they ask, "What's the late?"', Then you've lost your vote secret. And the PVV sheet is usually empty before the drop of, say, Jesus Lives. So that needs to be refilled a few times a day. So this too isn't really a great thing. And if you also read the comments of the Election Council... just don't do it. 'Cause you're making something that's working right now. The ballot's a little too big, that's understandable. I'll get back to that in a minute. And then we come up with the other ballot. It is already used by Dutch people abroad. You'll have to fill out the party you're voting on first. The first one here is D66. That has nothing to do with the minister. They tried it once in Groningen and there D66 is by accident very big. So D66 is at the top. Then you have to fill out that you're voting for candidate 6. Of course there is an overview in the voting booth somewhere, or there is a snapper, so you can check it out, but there are no names anymore. So parliamentarians have turned into numbers. That's undesirable. I think it is desirable that the ballot should state exactly who you choose and why you choose someone. So it seems unwise to enter this test note, even if it is a hundred times easier to count, because you can just run it through a voice counter with an optical thing and it is also easy to recount once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u4	A question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u5	The last ballot that held Mr Omtzigt up was used in the previous elections, namely by people who voted from abroad. Does Mr Omtzigt therefore think that foreign voters were unable to know in the previous elections whether they voted in favour or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u6	There was something special going on with the voters who voted by post abroad, because they got this ballot, but they got a note next to it with the whole extended ballot. So you got that really big rag over there, and then all the numbers were there, and this one. I don't think it's desirable. It's not that they voted invalid. If this bill goes ahead, it is not that everyone votes invalid, but I find it undesirable to set up a ballot so that you do not vote clearly on the names. By the way, if you vote by post, you can also take a little more time than in a voting booth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u7	I think it's a great way to inform people about who's in what place. I also see all kinds of parties campaigning with "list 3, number 2," "list 6, number 2" or whatever. It just happens. So there are almost no names there anymore. I think it's a little nails on low water, because it's also the case that the huge form we have now has a lot of drawbacks. Because of those names, because of those place names that are on them, mistakes are made. A lot of count errors are being made. That is one of the problems we have in our democracy, isn't it? If you can't control the credibility of the counting process, you don't know if the whole voting process went well. This is a solution, an experiment for that. I think you should get that involved, too. I have been to a few votes and especially to issue all kinds of forms during the last election. Everyone understands that that's huge error-prone. I think that finding a solution to this is a very good principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u8	I am coming up with a proposal to work with slightly smaller ballots, namely for a district system. I think that is certainly desirable. However, I do think that the current ballot is more desirable than the ballot that is currently being proposed. In addition, because of the way the research is set up, you don't actually ask people to fill in both, because you hardly compare whether it will work better. That is hard to find out with the research design.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u9	There is an interruption by Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u10	I would like to go back to what Mrs Leijten said: Mr Omtzigt himself said that voters abroad could keep a book aside and that they could just read it. Now the Minister replied to questions from the CDA: "The names and numbers of the candidates are in the list of candidates that the electorate gets for the election day at home and that is also available for all voters in the voting booth."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u11	I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr Omtzigt mentioned the electorate abroad, but this is also the case in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u13	No, I just said...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr Sneller is still asking his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u15	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u16	Doesn't that just make me understand who I'm going to vote for? Then it's not like I have to have a number in my head that I have to try to remember, but then I can just keep it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u17	I just said that in the voting booth there is either a chopper in which it is, so you can search it or the whole ballot, as it is now, hangs up against the wall. The advantage of letter voices is that you can take more time for that. I expect more errors at the speed you get when you do that in the voting booth. But that's what I said in my input: it's there. In the case of letter votes, mistakes are also made. I'm sure of it. The second point, Mr President, is that Mrs Leijten had a point there, namely that you can be present in the Netherlands when you count your votes, but not when you add up your votes. If you really want to make mistakes in the election, you shouldn't be at the polls, but you should be at the polls. For example, if you move 200 votes exactly one booth when translating a table, they go to another party and then you really have a mistake. If you make a mistake when counting the votes, it is usually the case that every mistake leads to one vote going to the wrong party. So you might think that with voices, whole seats are flying in a different direction, but that doesn't want to happen yet. There are several examples of this when adding up votes. In 1998, we missed a polling station in Twente. It was Annie Schreijer-Pierik who went after it, otherwise she would not have chosen with preferred votes. During the 2017 elections, I myself asked the House of Representatives to show me all the minutes. This showed that when the CDA votes were added up, significant errors had been made in the allocation to the candidates. That was in my order of 600 to 700 votes. They all stayed with the CDA. So it didn't matter who was chosen and it didn't matter for the results, but it was sloppy. And it wasn't seen during the trial. That was painful to see. That is why, together with Mrs Bromet, Mrs Van Dijk and Mr Ephraim, I have tabled an amendment to ensure that every polling agency will publish the results online within 24 hours of the elections, without the signatures, of course, because that is a little privacy sensitive and anyone who wants to do so can simply make the addition in the whole municipality, from the municipality to the constituency and from the constituency to the national level. The NRC did so in the last election, along with an institute that hired some dozen temporary workers who went to all those municipalities. I do not think that is entirely desirable. This is just public information. The amendment provides for the Election Council to collect this information. If it is collected, it can just stay in a database and then you can see for history who got where how many votes were at which election.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u18	There is a question for you from Mr. Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u19	It's about the amendment. I understand the spirit. I think it is commendable that you seek as much transparency as possible, especially when it comes to the elections. I wonder how your amendment relates to a bill which the outgoing cabinet has been working on in order to make that report public in any case. Do I understand correctly that you now intend to amend the Election Act in a general sense, even before the forthcoming elections, so separately from the Temporary Experiment Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u20	Yes. Actually, I'm bringing that piece out of that law. That law has been in the Cabinet for over a year, because the Chamber has submitted a report, but the note on the report does not come to the Chamber. Even if there were unexpected or hoped for, for a number of Members; I am looking at Mr Bosma's quick election, it is already in the Election Act. The provisions contained in that amendment will also lapse if that bill is made law. It really serves to ensure that it is introduced as soon as possible. We have been working on it for a number of years. If the amendment is adopted, I can assure you that it already makes a difference for the forthcoming municipal elections. This bill isn't gonna pass through the First Chamber for the municipal elections anymore. However, if this were to be adopted, in the upcoming municipal elections, the municipalities would be asked to place on-line, within 24 hours of counting the votes per polling station, the number of votes in which polling station. Then every candidate, every citizen and every political party can just quietly count behind his computer itself in an hour how that result came about. This is important. The transparency of the political process is important for acceptance, because if someone later says that adding was wrong, then you've had all those things online. Then you can say: you could have done it yourself. If it's not public and there's a discussion about it because someone doesn't trust the voting and the adding, then you're stuck in a wells-nothing story. So you can't control anymore, and checking here is always better than trusting that it went well. If it is correct, that amendment will be distributed shortly. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the link between the voter and the elected one. If you look around this Chamber, you will discover that there are about 24 MPs from The Hague and 22 MPs from Amsterdam. If you were to see how many MPs are coming out of Drenthe, there's one: Agnes Mulder. From Twente there is also one; that is yours truly. From the Achterhoek it's zero. So two MPs come from all over the eastern band. You all think it's an army out there. That's right, but in Drenthe there are 0.5 million people, in Twente there are 600,000 and in the Achterhoek there are 400,000. That's 1.5 million. There are more people living in this area than in Amsterdam and The Hague together. Two MPs now live there and more than 45 live together in Amsterdam and The Hague. It doesn't all have to be right, but if you're talking about parliament, then it's not entirely fair. To tell you another thing: The Hague currently has about as many MPs as the provinces of Groningen, Friesland, Drenthe, Overijssel, Gelderland and Flevoland. There are more than 5 million people living together and they have about as many representatives as the over 0.5 million people living in The Hague. How proportional is that anymore? It is not a bad thing that there is some distortion, but we often talk about things that happen in Amsterdam or The Hague in this house, and it takes a little longer for things from Groningen or Twente to be on the agenda. That has to do with representation. The same applies to Zeeland and to some extent to North Brabant. Only in Limburg they have done well, because they usually vote for a Limburger and then they still get quite close to what they should have pound spongs. And if you really want to have it: there has never been a representative of the BES Islands here in the Chamber, i.e. from Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius or Saba. We take them together for a while, but the distance between Bonaire and Saba is 800 or 900 km. Anyway... In fact, our entire regulations of expenses and travel provide that those people if they were chosen would get a free NS-ov card instead of a few tickets for the trip between here and Bonaire. I don't think that's a good idea. So we don't have proportional representation. And we have got so far from there that I ask the government if it would do a study on the Danish model. The Danish model provides that you have electoral circles with multiple candidates, i.e. with ten or fifteen people per constituency, and another small national list to ensure that it is proportionate. The latter is important, because our Constitution states that we have proportional representation. And the first thing is important so that you have a little more spread. For example, there is a constituency north, a constituency east, a constituency west, or perhaps two constituencies west because there are many people there, and a constituency south. It can also be done by county. And you have a number of MPs who have a connection to those electoral circles and a party bond. My question to the government is: are you prepared to study this system and send an appreciation to the Chamber? Could that be a reasonable form of administrative renewal? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u22	Hmm, the cleaning agent that the messenger uses smells pretty special. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For a long time there has been a desire to make a more manageable ballot. Counting takes a long time and from the municipalities and the Dutch Association for Citizens' Affairs comes the need to reduce the huge ballot. Since 2011 there has been a path to continue in steps. In 2019 there has been a number of tests I may not call them experiments, I have read to prepare the experiment that is now being proposed. The Minister says that the limits of the current ballot have been reached and that the limit of the size of the paper is in sight. My question to the Minister is whether she can explain this a little more. What exactly is that line? If she writes that it cannot be printed, is that a physical impossibility or is that something very practical? The reasoning is "the bigger the ballot, the smaller the letter, the smaller the boxes and the more errors." Does the Minister see this in the error rates when filling in and counting? Well that goes for the House of Representatives, because there we had 1,500+ candidates, but does that apply to municipal councils and should we indeed apply the same format for both types of elections? There is not only the efficiency argument that Mr Omtzigt mentioned, but also the manageability, so that counting can be more structured. When it comes to the faithful transposition of the electorate's will into the composition of a parliament or any other parliament, I think that is a very important argument, because then there is less chance of error. It is also an argument to make electronic counting possible in the future. It is also important for accessibility, because the current ballot is actually impossible to make workable for people with physical disabilities. With the new variant, as I understand it, it will be much easier. This is not an unimportant argument. It is a long-standing desire to make it easier for low-lettered voters in particular by making it possible for logos to be printed on the ballot paper. What is the point of this bill? A small-scale experiment is actually proposed in three elections in four small municipalities. I think it's okay to name the proportions. The fundamental change we are discussing today is relatively limited. It is true that there are two models, Mr Omtzigt, which have shown them, and I am sorry that model 1, which makes it possible to put names on the list, can only enter later. My question to the Minister is whether this is practically impossible. Around model 1 in particular, the VNG raises the practical question of whether or not the curtain should be installed. Mrs. Arib's already gestured it. It is a very practical and physically tangible bill in this respect; that is also sometimes nice in the Home Office. It felt a bit like looking for nails on low water to me. It seems to me that this problem also exists in Norway. I ask the Minister how they deal with it. A member of the polls can see if two people walk to the same voting booth. That seems to me to be a good check. At the same time, it is a matter of keeping the voting secret. That seems important to me. It is not just about taking out two ballots in that model, but also about folding it together. This will have to be checked. So what is the check of the voter on that? Then I come to model 2, where first the party and then the person is chosen. First of all... What is the risk that only a list selection will be made? That was quite a percentage for voters abroad, I think. These are then invalid votes, because we do not yet have the model that I would like to see in the new electoral system. I very much agree with Mr Omtzigt's analysis of giving personal voices a more important role at the expense of the influence of parties. It is the proposal of the Civil Forum electoral system to introduce the variant that also advised the State Remkes Commission. It's the variant the Minister of the Council of State got back. We are waiting for it to be sent to the Chamber so that we can deal with it. So that person's dodge is crucial. My question to the Minister is how she is going to ensure that there is sufficient awareness of these candidates, because that aspect is very important to me. Fortunately, in the first tests in Altena, Hoeksche Waard and Groningen, I see a higher percentage going to other people than the list leader than in the real reclassification elections. Also abroad people vote less often on the list than in the Netherlands as a whole. But how are we going to follow that in these experiments? Finally, Mr President, the method of evaluation. GroenLinks is not here right now, but he had asked questions about what exactly is being evaluated. The Minister replied: whether voters can handle it well and vote the percentage invalid. But that's, I think, a little skinny. John Bijl of the Pericles Institute wrote: Shouldn't we ask if people feel well represented? And after four years we have to measure that link between the electorate and the chosen quality: how did that happen, has it changed and has it been possible for you to make the choice this time? So that's a slightly richer evaluation. That seems appropriate to me for an experimental law. Thank you for your coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u23	There is another interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u24	I would like to take Mr Sneller's judgment of D66 on the fact that these two laws are being used for a repair law on something that we are not talking about at all today, namely the Housing Act. The Minister did this because it fits in with her legislative economy. It is useful to repair another law, the Housing Act, in a legislative proposal for an experiment with the voting form. How does D66 feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u25	Then Mrs. Leijten has to help me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u26	This law includes a repair article to regulate something that is not regulated in the Housing Act. That is what has been said in the legislative proposal and in the written questions. The Minister replied that it would be convenient to use this bill for this purpose, otherwise a whole new bill would have to be made. Honestly, I don't think it's nice to be like this. We talk very often here about good representation, good legislation and make sure that it is followable what we do. But this is where I think the minister is doing something she shouldn't be doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u27	I'll take a good look at it. It is a good thing that Mrs Leijten mentions this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you. Then the next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every Dutchman must be able to participate. That certainly applies to something fundamental as votes. Today, on the one hand, we are talking about the legislative proposal that allows voters outside the Netherlands to continue to vote with an e-mail ballot. Actually, we think that's a good thing. However, I have difficulty with the first argument, namely that one of the blockades is the moment for the irrevocable establishment of the list of candidates. We pretend that this cannot be changed if it is a better solution for our democratic system. That everyone should be able to participate is above the applicable procedures of the candidate lists for the CDA. However, we do find good arguments about the untrustworthy nature of the post in some countries, and rather have a ballot and thus have more time to deliver his or her vote to the post office on time. In practical terms, there seems to be little opposition from the electorate to continue with this, which we consider important. We support the stated freedom of choice of voters abroad to opt for mail or mail. I had to smile at the non-practical choice initially to force people to vote with red. So I'm thinking, how do we come up with the weather? Thank you for that insight and that more colours can now be used. Then there's the experiment on ballots. That is a difficult point for the CDA. Those who have followed our input into the past know that too. The current format of the ballot is not practical for all kinds of reasons. The evaluation has shown that a small-format ballot can be counted more easily and quickly by the letter polling offices. According to the municipality of The Hague, where by far the majority of letter voices arrive, counting is not only faster, but also more accurate, because the smaller size of the new ballot allows for a more structured method of counting. So you could argue for it to go wide. However, that is very much driven from the counter and less from the voter. As opposed to the points in this evaluation, it says that the CDA believes that voting on people and not just on a number or a party should remain possible. We believe that this can help to bring the already distant politics closer to citizens. Voters can explore people in advance, so that they can decide whether they are indeed the people who can play this honorable role as far as they are concerned. Something has already been said about the proposed models. The so-called Norwegian model is preferred for the CDA. The proposed model 2 contains only parties and no names of candidates. The voter who wishes to cast a preferred vote must look up the candidate's number and make both the box of the party and the booth at the candidate's number red. A ballot that is easier for the counter, but more difficult for the voters we find a bit the world upside down, although of course we have all kinds of good arguments about bookies, et cetera. I've been helping in a polling station for years. Some people find voices very complicated. What seems very easy for us is really a very complicated process for a lot of people. I saw people walk in at national elections and asked if they could vote for Harrie Verkampen, just to point out that it is really a thing for some people. We shouldn't underestimate that. You will hear it, and I want to be honest about it: I am very sceptical about this experiment. In addition, I also have the biased opinion that model 1 will score better in an evaluation. The question is whether I will step over this attitude and allow this experiment to happen, and then wait for the evaluation with an open attitude. Perhaps our opinion is old thinking and the experiment is going to prove the contrary. Before I can answer that question, I have a few more questions. Could the experiment be shorter? Not ten years, but like two elections? What if the voter in the experimental area doesn't want to vote this way at all? Can we facilitate those people and make it easier to vote in the normal way? Are there really no forms in which both aspects are secured? Can we not just speed up the process of electronic voting in a good way? The UNG also argues in favour of this. I also had questions about the evaluation. Mr Sneller already pointed that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten. It will speak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. For the viewer at home it will be a bit difficult today to follow exactly what we are talking about. This is an amendment to a law that we lay down following experiments for voting forms abroad. But we are also talking about two experiments for voting forms in the Netherlands, as well as an amendment to the Housing Act. Just for Mr Sneller: Article 92 of the Housing Act is re-established with the legislative proposal Amendment of the Election Act in connection with the final introduction of a new ballot. The Minister answers some kind of critical questions from the VVD Group by saying that this would be good for the legal economy. The SP has a lot of disagreement with the government about how the economy should be organized. We clearly have that difference of opinion when it comes to the legislative economy. Legislation must be kept as pure as possible. An amendment to a law is simply not supposed to be such a way of cycling into a law, even if it is a technical change or something that would immediately be a majority for it. We know that some things go wrong with our government: pieces are lost and archives are not in order. Also, we sometimes cannot find things, whether they are important memos within the Tax Administration/Applications that later wander around the ministry and that no one has seen, but everyone knows they were very important, or that this is what this is about. In addition, we are talking about the control role of ourselves as representatives of the people. It doesn't make any difference if you fix a law in this way, namely by means of a completely different bill that doesn't concern that at all. I've been trying to look at the House Act. Could there be a relationship between the interests of tenants and the voting process? I don't see them. Could there possibly be something with address quality, which makes the voice passes arrive at people? I don't see that either. I'm making a bit of fun of it, but I really don't think we should do this. This also comes from the Ministry of the Interior, which must be a guardian of our democracy, of our Constitution and of legislative processes. I don't really like spending so much time on this. Then there's the voting forms. A different process of voting has been used abroad and voting forms have also been used differently from those in the country. The government is now saying: we are now going to lay down in the law the ballot that has been experimented with abroad. I actually think that makes sense. The Commission for the Examination of the Letters of Faith, of which I am chairman, carried out a work visit during the previous voting process, focusing on voting abroad. That is forgiven for quite a lot of difficulties and thresholds. However, no threshold was experienced when filling out the voting form. In fact, ease was experienced, especially when counting the votes. I like that. Then there's the voting forms. That is also a bit of a legislative economy that I am not very happy with. There are two models; Mr Omtzigt has already shown them. One experiment can be carried out earlier, and we introduce it with this. The other experiment could possibly be introduced later, but it will then be regulated by further legislation that does not need to come by us anymore. For example, the Minister can think it is a good idea that a passport photo of all candidates should be included on the voting form. That may be very good for recognizability, but then the Minister will be able to decide without us being involved. I wouldn't like that in terms of the legislative economy. That is why I come up with an amendment which lays down that we are going to do the experiment as we have described it and that no other things can be added to it. The starting point for elections should be that the elections should take place safely, but that it should also be as simple as possible to participate in them. We therefore understand the wish for a different voting form. The number of parties and candidates has meant that the voting booths needed to be increased, because people had to be able to unfold the ballot. Due to the size of the form, counting is difficult and mistakes are made. That is also what we saw when, as a Chamber led by the same Committee for the Examination of the Letters of the Faith, we counted a polling office not in this Chamber, but in the other room because there were really a lot of errors in the minutes. We also found unexplained errors. That is what I reported on in the report. We have called on the Minister to respond and reflect on this. We have also called on the municipalities to do so. I think it is good that we hear when the answer comes. Why is it so important that the counting goes well and that the writing goes well? In this respect, I fully understand the amendment tabled by Mr Omtzigt. He says: "We wanted to regulate this count better by law, where is the handling of the bill? Then to this bill." The more the question arises as to whether the votes are recorded properly, counted correctly, recorded correctly and properly added together, the more the question arises as to whether the elections have been conducted fairly. We must always avoid that question. If a good voting form helps, we can certainly talk about this with the SP Group. But we would prefer to see one experiment and not two. We would prefer to experiment with the ballot where you choose the party and then indicate the candidate. We believe that working with different forms at the polling stations creates a lot of practical problems. For example, it is visible that you take a note from a particular party, which can damage the secret of voting. The municipalities also point out that it is very complicated. Then let's just do one experiment. That is why I will also be submitting an amendment to the law, perhaps that has just been submitted to stick to that experiment. What we also consider to be important is that Mr Sneller came up with the logos of the parties on the forms. We know that, unfortunately, 2 million people are low-lettered in the Netherlands. This means that you cannot read and write at such a level that you can participate in everything we exchange with letters. Then a logo is very nice and very good to have. That is why I am also preparing an amendment to require a logo. Or maybe it's already filed; you never know exactly when you're standing here. You should not assume that you are not allowed to participate in the elections if you do not turn in a logo, but when registering as a party, you will be given extra emphasis. We believe that it is really desirable that logos should be included. I'll see where I left off. That is the problem of not being able to release a preferred vote if there are no names. We don't really see that problem. We see a lot of preferred voices being cast, but also that most people ultimately simply opt for the list leader of a party, because they think: that is the party that we believe has the right plans for the Netherlands. I'll see if I've said everything right now, because it would be annoying if I forgot something. Requesting the voting form by e-mail. We would prefer to see no difference in the provision of the voting form in the country and abroad. There are practical objections to indicate why it is necessary abroad because of the postal service to provide a voting form by e-mail. But also in the Netherlands there are people with the practical objection that at the moment they vote they don't know where their voting card is, and therefore they can't vote. I do not think it should be the case that you can do it abroad in a certain way and not in the Netherlands. I was just talking about the fact that elections should be safe, free and not under discussion. Everyone understands that it can be fraud-prone if your voting cards are distributed by e-mail, even if it is for a select number of people abroad. I would therefore argue that we should not introduce such things, with this insecurity, and therefore refrain from doing so. Mr. Chairman. With the new voting form, that one voting form that I mentioned and that they used abroad, it is easier to vote. You pick a party and you pick a candidate. We think it is good if the vote is valid if the candidate is not filled in. We have actually adapted that a bit during the letter vote. Sometimes the pass was not well sent because it was in the other envelope, but you could see that someone really did their best to participate in the voting process. Then it was said: we are going to approve a number of letter votes and we are going to count in that respect. Otherwise, a lot of votes would have been rejected. We want to prevent you from getting into a situation where a voice is lost when people think: I just voted for the party that I want to give my blessing and I forgot to give a candidate, because I think it is less important. Those people did make the effort to vote, to participate in the voting process. So I would very much like to see that voice stays good. Then there's the representation. District system or no district system, I think it is very important that we listen to people. Are we not above it if we have had a university education and someone can perhaps be flawed in Dutch or if someone has had a practical education and perhaps does not understand the processes, but has a problem and knocks on the door somewhere? If we have learned anything from the surcharge scandal, it is that large groups of people were not heard by systems, politics and the judiciary. It wouldn't have mattered if we had that representation here, because there were MPs asking for it. There were even employees here in the building who went through this. There were even people working at the Council of State who were dealt with in this way by the Tax Administration. We should have known if we wanted to know, if we would have listened to each other. And yes, representation from the regions is important. It is an expensive duty for every party to ensure that you are everywhere in the capillaries of society. But I think it is equally important that I see Mrs Arib sitting here. It may come from Amsterdam, that city with a large representation, but it also represents a group of people in our country who have achieved it by fighting. That gives these people an enormous look. I like that and I don't think you should put that away by pointing out that you would only get a better voting process with a district system. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you. I call Mr Ellian of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just in the hospital with my mother and I would like to thank colleagues Bosma, Van der Plas and Mrs Arib from this place. And on behalf of my mother, your desire to be well has done her a great deal. But, Mr. Chairman, you might think, why does he start with this? I was with her, and all the pit that's inside her is still there, even after the surgery. I asked her, "Mom, haven't you ever voted in the Netherlands?'. She said with a twinkle in her eyes: "Maybe I missed the waterboard elections once, but I think I've always voted.'. I asked my father, just to be sure, but I knew of course that they always go to the polling station together. From my father, I know that voting for him is a party. He always describes it like that. He says, "Joh, I had to fight very hard for that in a country where I can't. Here I can do that.'. I also remember my dad always put on his tie and put on a suit. He said he thought it was a party to go vote with my mom. So voting is extremely important. Transparent elections that are fair and orderly are a cornerstone of our democracy, for which I am grateful. Voices are a party, but of course that's what it has to be. And that big bill could ruin the party a little bit. I'm going on to the experiment we're talking about today. Of course, it is good and wise to sometimes see if you can do a particular act, in this case the voting and counting, in a better way, a more manageable way or a more convenient way. As far as the VVD is concerned, that's fine. It's not wrong to think about that at all. It has not been said that we are already giving a basic ruling on the choice of one of these two models. Maybe we want to leave it at the same time and maybe we don't. But experimenting doesn't have to be wrong. Mr. Chairman. But let's get down to the depths of the experiment. Mr Sneller recalled Mr Bijlo today, who drew our attention to some gaps. But these are fair questions and I ask them through you, Mr President, to the Minister. As Mr Sneller said, the measureability and evaluation of this experiment should be more robust. What do I mean by that? First of all, I ask how the municipalities are selected if we only select very small municipalities, with all due respect to the smallest municipalities in this country. It doesn't make much sense. But to immediately choose Amsterdam, to stay with Amsterdam, is perhaps also a bit risky. How do you measure the satisfaction? If it is only about the validity of the votes, that is, of course, extremely thin. You also want to know if people liked it. Did they find it confusing? Did they still feel any connection to the candidate? You can think of all kinds of questions that are relevant, but there is no mention of them in the bill. So I would like to hear from the Minister how she is going to evaluate and in particular measure whether the experiment is successful. I have one more important question. So if people don't have any comparison material, that means that they compare the experiment, one of the two models, with the current situation. But that also of course makes measuring and ultimately measuring the satisfaction quite complicated. Mr. Chairman. Finally, my final point about the experiment. Ten years is a little long. This law applies for ten years and if the background is that we want to take a faster step towards eventually perhaps an electronic vote and that we want to make counting easier as soon as possible, why not opt for six years? Then why don't you say "three times a big election is enough"? I mean, for example, the municipal elections, the elections of the Provincial States and the Second Chamber elections. Mr. Chairman. Let me ask one more specific question, but not entirely insignificant. I would like to hear from the Minister why there is a difference in the validity of the banknotes abroad and in the Netherlands. If you choose from abroad, I think Mrs Leijten was also talking about "big" if you don't tick a ball with a candidate. But in the experiment, that voice just goes to the number one. That is a bit crazy for my sense of justice, because that means that Dutch people who vote abroad vote in a different way. In any case, validity shall be weighed differently from those participating in the experiment. I would like to hear from the Minister how she defends this difference. Finally, I would like to hear an appreciation, a little motivated, of Mr Omtzigt's amendment, which seems extremely interesting to me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you, Mr. Ellian. On behalf of all of us, well-being for your mother. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you. Very attentive of Mr Ellian to convey his mother's greetings. Greetings again, heartfelt improvement for her and, of course, strength for your father in this. Dear MPs, rulers and residents of the Netherlands, and in particular voters of the Netherlands. In front of us is a bill to amend the Tickets Act. Apparently, the ballot needs to be smaller. It needs to be smaller for the citizen, as a convenience for voting, and it needs to be smaller to be able to count quickly. The outgoing cabinet proposes to experiment for ten years with a new model ballot. Elections are the cornerstone of our democracy. So that's not something you're going to experiment with in a number of constituencies or municipalities. Voting is not an experiment for voters in these constituencies; they participate in elections and exercise their democratic rights. Why not work with extensive test panels and gather and evaluate experiences, as is customary in business? I am talking about dry practice and not experimenting with citizens' fundamental rights. And what determines the success of such an experiment? The proposal consists of two models. On model 1 you have one ballot per lot. This is shown in a kind of window where you choose the party. The supermarket owners know how this works: what is right in front of you on the shelf often gets the highest preference and what lies below in the shelf is the least bought. This applies not only to people with rusty joints, like me, but also to gymnastics. So that's not a good plan. In Model 2 you choose the party and you tick the number of the position on the list of your favorite popular representative. So the person, your public representative, becomes a number, just like cows have a number. The farmer knows perfectly where Klara 23 is in the stable and what her performance is. People who still want to switch in the voting booth want to see names and no songs. The party name and logo are visible. The party is more important than the person. That goes against everything that our democratic system stands for: representatives of the people vote without burden. Every Member of Parliament is free to vote as he pleases. The Constitution has no parties, only representatives of the people. It is already significant that, as BBB, we would have had three seats if all the candidates on the electoral list of the Dutch Parliamentary Elections of 7 March had the 150 candidates with the most votes. By the way, three tractors had come to The Hague instead of one. I'm just warning you. People's representatives aren't numbers. I'm not list 23, number 1, Vera Bergkamp is not list 4, number 3 and Pieter Ommzigt is not list 3, number 2. These people, we are all elected representatives of the people, with a personal mandate to represent voters. The proposed ballot does not take this into account. Mr. Chairman. Let us not work on the foundations of our democracy because it happens to be inconveniently large. Even if the ballot was 5 meters long, that's a wonderful time to put it on the kitchen table, take the kids on their lap and teach them about our beautiful democracy. It is good that people have a choice here, while in many other countries people are being killed because they are fighting for democracy like ours. Voting does not have to be "handy"; it must be reliable and strengthen the involvement of voters in their elected representatives rather than weakening them. The involvement of the electorate in politics is essential. That is why we have included, for example, in our programme that city council members, not the Provincial States, should choose the members of the Upper House. This will ensure local noise also in national politics. BBB wants the citizen's voice to be heard between elections in important decision-making, for example on his environment. In addition, local parties should receive an equivalent party grant, as national parties in the Lower House now receive. I would just like to mention some democratic innovations which reduce the distance between citizens and representatives of the people. In short: the distance must be reduced, not the ballot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u36	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u37	Thank you. I look forward to Mrs Van der Plas' amendment to a five-metre ballot. To upset Mr Omtzigt, two Amsterdammers end the first term. And then there will be a minister from Amsterdam to answer him: that will teach you, my friend! Mr. Chairman. The question we need to ask is, of course, whether we are free people. An answer to this question can only come from the citizens themselves. I ran into a German investigation today. In 1971 83% of the population of West Germany still said "yes" to the proposition: man kann seine Meinung frei sagen. A modest 12% chose: es ist besser, vorsichtig zu sein. Anno today, this has changed completely. Now 45% of the population says: yes, giving your opinion freely is fine. 44% believe that silence is gold. There is a similar investigation in the United States. I am not familiar with a Dutch survey, but I stumbled upon an article by Afshin Ellian of Leiden University, with the headline: majority is afraid to express its opinion anymore. He describes this as "a sign of fear." I challenge the VVD Group to disagree with this. It is increasingly difficult to give a different opinion, different from the ideologies of the State. First of all, this is the diversity cult, the woke ideology, but also the climate socialism and the Europhily. People who think otherwise, who are therefore outside the left church, are having a hard time. This church holds all the institutions of the Netherlands: the media, the universities, the judiciary, the civil service, but also the museums, the cultural world, the church and the trade unions. As a result, all the madness that is fashionable in there can be rammed through without any problem in our society. Political research proves which group in the Netherlands always gets its way: the group of highly educated people. That vote is overwhelmingly D66 or GroenLinks. Anyone who understands that understands why all kinds of things are happening that the Dutch people do not want at all, from mass immigration and Islamization, climate drama, windmills and biomass power stations to the destruction of our great Dutch hero Black Piet, racist measures to phase out whites and that you can no longer eat meat on board the KLM. Everything must proclaim state ideology. NPO66 screams all day about the blessings of diversity and the climate threat. Universities are decolonizing; diversity officers are planted everywhere for ideological purity and ideology is above science. Museums attack our heroes, like Michiel de Ruyter. Spinoza disappeared from the philosophy canon, because white. Twitter and Facebook will be removed from other people's minds. Books in which Zwarte Piet occurs are removed from the libraries; book burnings, just like before. Those who are outside the Left-liberal unitary sausage do so at their own risk. There is a de facto professional ban on PVVs. With the two Wilders trials, with the help of the Justice Ministers, a terrifying example was set: shut up or accept the consequences. This is the harsh social climate in the Netherlands in 2021. One wrong word and you're out. I speak on the street many people who say: great, PVV! They often look over their shoulder first, because you never know. They often say: no one can know at my work, but I vote for you; hold on! Why can't anyone know? Well, it's better if you don't. Former MP James Sharpe, blessed with black skin, once said: "I have never been discriminated against for my race in the Netherlands. The discrimination only started when I came out as a PVV'er." Family members of PVV people also sometimes pay a price for it. Halfs that are mysteriously rejected in an interview. The daughter of a PVV representative was no longer represented on her football team, while everyone thought she was the best of the team. Coach was a D66 man. And pay attention, the PVV has been the second or third party of the Netherlands for ten years, a real popular party. As a PVV'er you develop a sixth sense for all that exclusion and discrimination. You usually feel it in your water, and that's usually true. And then the Nazi equations are flying around us, not even an invitation to exchange views, but always meant to put us out of order. This minister, who should have been the minister of all Dutchmen, compared my party with the Nazis in an interview about her Hannie Schaftlecture last year. Mr. Chairman. In that social climate, I was shocked by the word "display." The Minister therefore remains open to the possibility that as a voter in the semi-publicity of the polling station of a pile of banknotes, one of your party's banknotes should be taken. It might be in a drawer, but then you have to say, "Hey, the PVV's drop is empty." There's talk of a curtain. Whatever. But it's dangerous, because in public, you have to make it clear what you prefer. It's the same in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u38	A question from Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u39	There's a curtain for it, but it's out in the open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u40	I don't know about the curtain, but there's talk of a late. There's talk of drawers. I haven't seen a definitive effect on the Minister. There are opinions from the Election Council and so on. There is indeed talk of a curtain. You get your PVV note from the PVV sheet. That turns out to be empty and then you have to ask: hey, the PVV notes are gone. And then you're gonna have to get out from behind that curtain. I think it's really weird. I also find it odd that it hasn't worked out in detail. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u41	There is another question from Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u42	I am glad that Mr Bosma has read about the curtain and also about other countries, including Norway, where this is common practice. It says that it is filled all day long and that there are actually no problems there. I think that the legislative proposal is clear on that point in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u43	Yeah, but in Sweden, you have to take it off a table. Then you just have to devant tout le monde grab the ballot from the batch of Sverige demokraterna. Anyone there can see that. The vote must be secret; that's what the law says. A display isn't right about that. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I have just listened with interest to the contributions of the honourable Member, Mr Van der Plas, and to those of the honourable Member, Mr Ellian. We are honourable Members, and why are we? That comes from the time of the district system. Mr Ellian would have been the honourable Member here for Almere. Hendrik Colijn was once the honourable Member for Sneek. I myself would never have become the honourable Member for Amsterdam, since my place of residence has now been fully upgraded. Leaving the district system has broken the direct contact between the electorate and the elected. Instead, the parties' omnipotence has come. You can even join some parties. Of course, that's completely bizarre. A tiny club that meets is then determining the position of elected representatives here in the House of Representatives. That is, of course, in flagrant violation of the Constitution, because these MPs have both trouble and back-spoke; I use the old terminology. Members of parliament then hang their heads to the party table. This is a violation of parliamentary dignity, but it is also a violation of democracy. Many parties have a framework that is much more left-wing than the electorate. For example, Onno Ruding mentions this in his memoirs. All this is all the weirder, because political parties do not appear in the Constitution at all and hardly in the law of the state. The role of the parties is at risk of getting further out of hand. With that new ballot, people on the list for the parliamentary elections actually become a number. The centre of gravity on that ballot lies with the party. That is, in principle, incorrect. We candidates, future MPs, can literally no longer have a name and then we are elected here in the House of Representatives. This bill reinforces the idea that parties are in charge, and that is in principle wrong. It was the Ministry's policy to make politics literally more personal. That's why the number of votes you need to be elected to this fine office was reduced. That now amounts to a quarter of the electoral threshold, and that is a good thing. It is ironic, of course, that this Minister of D66 is the party that has been working for the district system since its inception, so that the direct link between the electorate and the elected party will be optimal. With this ballot, the other way is manoeuvred again. I'm sorry about that. Finally, Mr President. I'm from an environmental party, so I'm traveling by train. At many stations I had to save elderly people who are helpless and sometimes with tears in their eyes at such a ticket machine and do not know in God what slot they have to do their quarter to buy a ticket to go to their granddaughter. Such a machine is designed by people who have grown up with internet, touchscreens and other modern frills. This is the kind of digital thing that drives the elderly crazy. Now we are threatening to get some kind of digital ballot that works with numbers and references. I'm afraid that's gonna drive a lot of old people crazy, and so am I, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u44	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Arib of the PvdA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have been deleting during the contributions of colleagues, so that I do not double. I'm the last speaker, so it looks a little chaotic. I'm just trying to figure it out a little bit. First of all, I would like to endorse Mr Leijten's criticism regarding this law, which concerns an amendment to the Kieswet in connection with the final introduction of the new ballot, and to arrange for the amendment of the Housing Act in secret. I am not a spokesperson in this area, but I was also told by the colleague who is going to hear about it that it is not really appropriate and that it is not pure. It would also be very strange, for example, if I were to use today's debate to bring up some 'corona'. It's not supposed to be like that. The Chamber simply needs to be handled in an orderly and respectful manner. The second point I agree with is the debate on the district system. It's not on the agenda. Of course, it has to do with the Kieswet, but I agree with what Mr Leijten said. Then there's the subject we're talking about today. A number of my colleagues have already indicated in their contribution that the proposal before us, which will allow experimenting with other ballots, raises many questions. That goes for us, too. It is clear that the current ballot is far from ideal. We all know that. It's hard to handle and it's hard to count fast with this note. We know that, too. The VNG is in favour of a new model ballot, which is easier, faster and electronically countable. I understand the criticism of the VNG very well. I can also very well imagine it's quite difficult, such a big thing. Mrs. Van der Plas mentioned 5 meters. That is not so bad, but it is a big thing to fold and fold again and then in a way that is manageable. That is indeed coming from the VNG. My question is how the city council members feel about that. The VNG, of course, represents the municipalities, but in the run-up to this debate I also heard other noises from city council members who are not really in favour of it. Those came from different parties I must honestly confess here, so not only from the PvdA constituency. The bill says every time that there is a need to replace the current bill, but I miss a really good argument. It is not made clear why the new ballots would be better. I don't read that. They're supposed to be better, but that's more of an assumption. We have great doubts about this. Instead of a large, rather clumsy ballot, we now go to two models. Especially the model on which there are no names, as a PvdA encounters great resistance. Who you vote for is not important. What is important is that the ballot can be folded quickly. It is a practical problem, but it does affect a core of what we, as representatives of the people, are dealing with. In particular, in a democratic system in which we live and in which we want to know who we are voting for, this is at the heart of the matter. I do wonder whose problem this is. Mrs Inge van Dijk has also asked whether this has actually been done more from the numerator's perspective and less from the electorate's perspective. That's the question I'd like to answer. The fact that the size of the current ballot makes counting cumbersome and takes a long time is very annoying. But we only vote once every four years. I understand it's kind of complicated. But to move away from that to another system, especially to a system with an anonymous ballot with numbers instead of names, we have serious objections. Such an objection is motivated by the same experience that Mr Ellian has put forward. In countries where there is no democracy and where you are allowed to vote, it is also incredibly important that you also know who you are voting for. That's such a big good. Here, with this proposal, people's representatives are reduced to anonymous numbers. I think that is a very big risk that we as a Chamber should be looking forward to incredibly. As long as we do not have a good alternative, I do not think we should experiment with this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u46	Thank you. Then there is an end to the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs a suspension, of course, in order to prepare the response. I suggest we suspend until 8:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u47	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with a point made by Mrs Leijten and Mrs Arib, because the present legislative amendment has indeed included an amendment to the Housing Act. That's actually a legal figure, a legal correction. I also believe that this should be handled with restraint. I note that this conviction has also been expressed here by the Chamber. Mrs. Leijten called it "not chic." I take that to heart. Let me briefly explain why it is done. We considered it important to clarify the text of the Housing Act for implementation as soon as possible. The Housing Act needs to be adapted to the new system of the Environment Act. The date of entry into force of the Environmental Act is 1 July 2022. It was found that the various legislative changes dealt with in relation to Article 92 of the Housing Act were not well aligned. At the time we discovered that, there was no collective law in place that could legally correct that change. It is therefore not a substantive change but a correction of legislative errors. So I'm sorry it's in here like this. Again, legal and legal it is a neat correction. But the legal economy as such must not be an end in itself and it must really be an exception. I fully agree with those who have made a comment on this. I hope that in this way I have clarified at least enough why this route was chosen here. It must also be a big exception. We shouldn't want to apply that very often. As far as the legal history is concerned, it must of course also be clear, which is why it has been clarified in the note following the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u49	There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u50	It's not supposed to be like this. That's what I noticed. But what also struck us a little bit is that it was also not reported in the explanatory statement. So it has been explicitly the reader in this case it was the VVD Then it was clarified in response to those questions. If they hadn't been told about it, it would have disappeared. That too is for the purity of how we make laws just really not right. The Minister says this is my statement. But that should never again be an explanation as far as the SP Group is concerned. There may be something tomorrow that won't change you very soon. Then you can't just choose another law. If we were to do that as co-legislator, if we were to say "oh, there is a law of justice before it; we are cycling in something of health," then everyone also says: that cannot be done; that cannot be done. So the government can't do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u51	No, I agree with Mrs Leijten: if it happens, it must be an exception and it must be transparent. It was explained in the letter of amendment. There is a reference to why and how it is. I really took it to heart. Actually, I think you should have a very good reason for it. I think that reason was in itself. I think you should also do your best to ensure that the legislative process remains completely transparent. Again, I take that to heart. That's what we need to learn from. But I hope that in this way I have given the Chamber sufficient access to what was intended and why this unusual route has been chosen. I also think it is my responsibility, also from the cabinet, to monitor that purity in the legislative process. I am therefore happy to say that to Mrs Leijten. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the subjects that we are discussing here. Tonight's big topic is the ballot, I think. For example, Mrs Arib said: why is the new ballot better? I think that everyone who voted in the last Lower House elections did remember the ballot from then on. It's a really big ballot. I did call it a "bath towel" myself. The letters and numbers on that ballot are really tiny. You can see reading glasses on my nose. A lot of people over 50 have these reading glasses. If you forget it, you can forget it in the voting booth. Why is that? Because, of course, we have a nice system in the Netherlands in which many parties can participate in the elections. Last time it was really exciting how many parties would eventually participate. We just managed to have it on one sheet of paper next to each other. If it had been more parties than the final 37, then it simply wouldn't have worked. Then you should have chosen, for example, to put lots together or even use the back of the ballot. Even smaller letters are really difficult for the voter, because if you're being very honest, it's actually already not readable, at least not for people over 50. It just can't be smaller, so that's not an option anymore. You have to use that paper differently and then parties aren't exactly in proportion to each other anymore. I really wouldn't want that. The urgency I feel in taking this step in this experiment is to see if we could work with a new workable ballot, which is not only well readable for the voter, but where it is less annoying for the voter. Those people are gonna go into that voting booth with that irresistible ballot. While people are standing behind you in line, you should try to fold that back somewhat neatly, because you can't put that in that ballot box. So I really think from the electoral point of view that we should move towards a better ballot. I heard some members this evening, among others Mrs Van Dijk from the CDA, say that it is mainly about the count. That is also a factor, and that is of course what the consultation with the municipalities is about. How can you make that poll easier for the members of the polls? Because it takes an average polling station an hour and a half to unfold these ballots alone, and that is when the count has to start at all. So that is indeed also a factor, but I mainly reason from the electorate's perspective. A smaller and more convenient note makes it easier for the voter and makes it easier for the counter after the election. In this way, we also reduce the risk of errors. This is very important, also in view of the reliability of the results. We all benefit from this as a voter. Then, of course, there is also attention to accessibility, as Mr Sneller pointed out. For voters who need help for whatever reason, for example because of their physical condition, that very large ballot is also very difficult. Also for visually impaired or blind voters it is really very difficult to express their voices independently, which is why we are already experimenting with that mold, for example. Such a different size ballot could help with that. There was also attention to the logos. I will come back later to discuss the precise questions that have been asked, but by depicting logos, it will also, of course, become more recognizable for groups of voters, for example for the low-lettered voters, who have already been mentioned today. I am aware that a change in the electoral process is often also a significant change for voters, with the exception of those who are going to vote for the first time. For the others, who have already voted once, it means that they will vote in a different way. It means, by the way, in both models, first a choice for a party. In the model with which I would prefer to experiment first on a small scale, which is indeed similar to the model of Dutch voters abroad, the names of the candidates are not on the ballot. However, the fact that the names are not on the ballot does not mean that the candidates have become anonymous. Mr Sneller also asked: how can we ensure that there is enough publicity for the candidates? The candidates are listed in the list of candidates, and that is what every voter gets sent home. So that's what it starts with. The voters at home can already see in the overview who they would like to vote for, just as the voters abroad have now done. If the voters then enter the polling room, they will also see the list of candidates, namely as a poster in the polling room. And when they get into the voting booth, the overview is there too. So I really think a method has been found for those candidates, which you can just keep voting on, just like you are now. A name now corresponds to a number on a list, and so is in the new system. Then why are you even doing an experiment? A few questions were asked, for example by Mrs Van Dijk and Mrs Van der Plas. I think you should do a change in the election process very carefully. You can come a long way with tests, but if you want to go one step further, you should try it in person. But be careful. Don't take too big a step at once. There are always risks associated with innovations in the electoral process. If you ask voters to vote in a different way than they are used to, there are simply risks involved. That is why we say: testing and then experimenting, step by step introduction of that innovation. Following the tests that have been done in recent years, the design of the ballot has been further developed to ensure that if we are really going to experiment, it is an experiment, but in real elections there are no mistakes. The test panels that Mrs Van der Plas asked for have already been completed. On the basis of the tests, the explanation of the ballot has been improved, so that it is understandable for every voter how to cast a valid vote on that new ballot. There will be an introduction and an explanation on the ballot. We have to do a lot about that in communication, but it's never entirely representative if it's not real. Testing is just another experiment in an actual election. The experiments can show whether improvements to or more explanations on the banknote are needed. Each experiment must indeed be evaluated in detail. It is also stipulated in the legislative proposal that this should be done. The evaluation shall consider whether the experiment should be adapted or scaled up. This means that after the evaluation of each election in which an experiment has been conducted, your Chamber will be informed about the results and the follow-up steps that I, the cabinet or the minister who is then in office have in mind. As far as I'm concerned, we start with small-scale experiments with the second model. I'm glad Mr Omtzigt showed it just now. That is the model with the top of the parties and underneath the numbers of the candidates. The other model, Mrs Leijten, pointed out the practical objections to it. Indeed, it calls for a so-called display in which the electorate packs the ballot of his or her choice. You would like to experiment with that, but we are not yet able to do so, because we need to think about the design of that display. That really needs to be better thought out before such an experiment could take place. That is why I would say: let's start experimenting with model 2 and not until we have come up with a solution for the display, we could also experiment with it. I would like to point out that I shall perhaps come back to this later on, and that there are countries where that seems to work well. But every country has a different culture. There are countries where voting secrecy is weighed in a different way than in the Netherlands. We consider the secret of voting to be very important. So if we're going to work with that model, we need to find a way in which it's not visible which banknote the voter takes out of the display. The voting secret must also be protected. The intention is that this should be introduced by way of an introduction, President-in-Office of the Council, to experiment with that second model in the municipal elections in March next year in some municipalities. That is now a tight time frame because of the treatment now. I'm gonna try and make it. The profit warning is that I cannot fully guarantee that it will succeed, because it will require legislation and the underlying regulation to be adopted by 1 December. If this Chamber were to accept the law, I would start the pending procedure for the underlying experimental decision as soon as possible. I hope the Chamber will take a look at that. It also means that those few municipalities where we would like to do so should start preparing in the short term, while the legal process is still ongoing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u52	Which municipalities are these and is it not strange that you will have one ballot in some municipalities and the other in other municipalities? People may get mugged because they suddenly see a totally mainstream ballot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u53	It concerns a very limited number of municipalities. I think even less than a handful. This means that the majority of Dutch voters are not involved in the next elections. In those municipalities where we are going to do so, people need to be properly taken into account. This also requires the approval of the local councils. We really want to start in small municipalities with less than 25,000 inhabitants. So these are relatively few people. The vast majority of the Netherlands doesn't notice it yet. But those who do have to vote with it must also be fully taken into account in what is going to happen. Mr. Chairman. Maybe a little bit more of this. Mr Bosma pointed out the secrecy. He outlined, as I have just said, that in other countries something else might be dealt with. That is true, but in the way we are going to experiment with it, we think that secrecy is very important. For example, we would like to introduce a curtain for the voting booth. That's something we don't really know in the Netherlands. If you work with the first model with different ballots per party, for example, you can't in any way deduce which one takes a voter out of the display. We can set this up in a very practical way, so that members of the polling station, including with curtains, can see that there is indeed only one voter in the voting booth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u54	An interruption by Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u55	I hear the Minister say that, when the bill is passed, the city council is ultimately the body that has to decide whether or not to experiment. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u56	Yes, it should be in consultation with the municipalities where we would like to experiment. The college will consult the city council on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u57	So there's a chance that a city council will say, "We don't."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u58	If a city council doesn't want to participate in the experiment, we won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u59	So we make a law here, but there's a risk that no municipality will participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u60	Well, my profit warning was mostly about timing. This bill has been stalled for many good reasons. The municipal elections are now moving in the right direction. They asked why he's so tall. We don't have elections that often. In general, we have one election every year. The next elections, the municipal elections, will take place in March next year. After that we have elections again the following year. It's a shame if you don't experiment at all in an election like this, because then that opportunity is gone and you'll be back another year. That's why I think it's worth trying to do it. I'm assuming we can manage with the municipalities we're having the conversation with. But if a city council says it doesn't want to, then we have to take that into account. My expectation is not that there is the bottleneck. I think that the legal treatment, the veil and so on is going to be very tight in terms of deadlines. I think that's a bigger risk than the municipalities don't want to participate in it. There are a lot of municipalities that really want to experiment with new ballots.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u61	I have a question for you to understand. We decide here something that can be quite fundamental for municipalities. Fortunately, they are themselves concerned, although the Minister was just talking about "consulting." I wonder if the city shouldn't just decide, but that aside. There is still a procedure going on here with regard to the front. At what time can the request be made to the city council? I'd like that to be sharp. I believe that these municipal councils should be able to talk to the college about this at ease and in depth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u62	This is a very good point. I just outlined that legislation and underlying legislation must be adopted by 1 December at the latest in order to achieve the municipal elections. This should give sufficient space to Mr Ellian's comments, namely that these municipal councils have sufficient time to consider them. I will take that into account in the planning and procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u63	I'm gonna let this get to me. I understand that because of circumstances this has remained a little longer, but I have some difficulty with the fact that we are now putting pressure on city councils for reasons that are situated in the Hague. The Minister says that the legislative process should be completed by 1 December. I don't know when the city councils are going to recess, but that's gonna be around December 16th. That means they're not going to look at this until January. Now I'm speculating, but that's just saying that this is not exactly the process you want to go through with each other. I think that the municipal councils and the candidates should deal with the fun part in January, namely the elections and the fact that they are elected. So my question is whether we can speed it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u64	It is precisely in order to enable the municipalities to work carefully with this, that exploratory talks have already begun. These municipalities are therefore already aware of this. Of course, I am waiting for the vote in this Chamber. Of course, there must also be a treatment in the First Chamber. What I just outlined is that we will continue to do so in parallel with the preparations. I say this here and I will explain it in the First Chamber. There is a risk that the law will not be passed. Then you've done the preparation for nothing. The reason for doing so is to ensure that they have sufficient time both in the municipal organisation and in local democracy. That would enable them to decide on this in the municipal councils before the Christmas church, which is indeed about mid-December. Actually, that's what it's all about. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the specific questions that have been asked. Mr Sneller asked if I could say a little more about the limit of the ballot. In my opinion, I have just outlined it, with the bath towel of the last time and the parties which at some point can no longer be shown side by side. That is indeed the physical limit of the size of paper that can no longer be produced in the volumes you need. Everything can if you want one such sheet, but if you want enough so that the whole of the Netherlands can vote, then you simply can't do it anymore. The printers tell us there's a physical limit to that. Paper in these kinds of volumes is also a focus of attention nowadays, but here it is really about the format. Of course, this does not play in all elections, but in the Lower House elections. These are the elections in which many parties want to participate. That is, of course, the review framework: it has to work for the election with most parties. It's hard to have different types of ballots for different elections. I don't think anyone in the Netherlands would understand that. I would also like to go into a little more detail about the link between the electorate and the elected one. There were concerns about that. I understand that these questions were asked, among others, by Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Omtzigt. The fear is that by not printing the names on the ballot, the candidate becomes an anonymous number. That is not the case, because you make it very clear to the electorate which candidates are on the list of the various parties. So there is no anonymity. You look in the overview and then color the number red that corresponds to the one you want to vote for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u65	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u66	The minister said there's a physical limit to printing ballots. Maybe the Minister could explain that. It may be a strange question, but wallpaper rolls are also printed. They're a long time, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u67	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u68	I was wondering what kind of ballot would be the physical boundary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u69	The physical boundary is that you have to produce millions of ballots. This can only be done from a certain point of time, because the candidacy has to be complete. There is a deadline for this: the list of candidates has been drawn up on the date x before the elections and the ballots can be printed. There are certain formats with which printers can work. For the last elections, we have chosen the largest format that they can print for us in those volumes and within this time frame. That's what the 37 parties just looked after. In those volumes and at that time they can't print larger bills. If they had more time, or if you said we could use the back, there could be a lot more. So it's just a boundary from the industry that makes this. They say, "We are unable to produce such quantities for you in that time." Of course, that has to do with their machines. Wallpaper can, but this needs to be cut up into ballots that need to be folded. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u70	What printers are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u71	Then you'll ask me about it. But I'd be happy to come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u72	I'd love to, because that's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u73	Continue your reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u74	Again, the preferred voice does not change this. Voters who want to vote on the list do so, just like now, on the number one. The voter who wants to vote for the vote has already chosen it or at home, or is looking in the voting booth for the candidate on whom he or she would like to vote. Mr Sneller asked what the risk was that only a list would be chosen. We know this system from the electorate abroad. They've been doing something similar since 2014. As far as we have been able to oversee so far, this does not lead to any different voting behaviour. When testing in 2018, the number of votes on the test banknote and on the current ballot were compared to the number 1 and to candidates lower on the list. That comparison showed no meaningful difference. So those results didn't give any reason to assume that that new ballot would result in a more frequent vote on the number one vote. This has also been checked by voters abroad during the recent Second Chamber election. That, of course, looks like that model 2, which we want to introduce. Even there, the voting behaviour did not differ significantly. There is therefore no reason to assume that the new ballot will lead to a different behaviour of the voter when it comes to casting a vote on the number one vote or a preferred vote. Of course, other candidates - I think I heard Mrs Leijten say that - can use their number on the list in their campaign. They can bring that number to the attention of the electorate. So the ballot is not at all contrary to the personal system, as Mr Bosma put it, because you are always voting for a candidate according to this model. You look at which party and who you want to vote for. You're actually doing that now. On the new ballot, that is really no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mrs. Arib has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u76	I notice that I have a bit of a problem with that, because it is proposed very simply. We are dealing in the Netherlands with 2 million people aged 16 and over who have difficulty reading and writing. On that big list, which we all think is complicated and difficult, you can see at a glance who you want to vote for. The Minister folds the ballot out now, yes, that's him. With the new system you have to look up that one list, then remember the name and then fill it out again. Isn't that a recipe for mistakes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u77	Mrs Arib says that this ballot is very easy for someone who has some difficulty reading and writing and that it is clear to him or her at a glance. I'm afraid that's not the case at the moment. I'm afraid it's very complicated for people who have a problem with that right now. There's only letters and numbers on this big ballot. You can see I'm having some trouble folding it properly. On the new ballot, Mr Omtzigt has already shown that this is really a lot more insightful. The logos are on it. Larger letters are used and there is a clear list on which the voter can highlight a preferred candidate. So I think the new model would be easier for that group. But I'm not sure. That's why I think it's wise to do this experiment. We have long been looking for a simplification of the ballot. I really do agree that we are doing this for the electorate. I like it when it's easier to count. I like it taken with me when the results are better. But we're doing it for the voter. We have been looking for a long time and that is why I say: let us experiment, small-scale, and we do not immediately make a very big change. Let us do this carefully and go through the process carefully. And who knows is that eventually we will all be able to vote with this small banknote. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question that has to do with the electoral system. Mr Omtzigt, who spoke first, began with that. In itself, I understand the link he makes between the proposal before us and the debate on the electoral system. He specifically asked about the Danish system. I think that electoral system is a combination of the system we know here and a district system. That was also considered in the cabinet position that went to the Chamber on the state committee. I'm talking about the Remkes State Commission. The cabinet then opted for the proposal of the Citizens' Forum. That is another electoral system, but it actually meets two points. One. It is within the framework of the Constitution and therefore does not concern an amendment to the Constitution. That is what this proportionality is built into. I don't think we want to interfere with that. We also do not want to interfere with the number of Members of Parliament. We also considered it important that the electoral system should not become more complex for the electorate to understand. There the shoe wrings very often abroad. I actually want to say that a debate on the electoral system, its functioning and the link between the electorate and the elected person is, of course, a very useful debate. I was also pleased that this debate was initiated with the Remkes report. That really is a fundamental debate. The cabinet has chosen a direction in this direction, but in a way that is separate from the legislative proposal before us. The electoral system, and any change to it, is, of course, not the route to a more transparent ballot. So this bill is actually smaller. It ensures the proper functioning of the electoral process within the system as we know it now. Then the comments about testing, experiments and so on. If you're going to do these experiments in a limited number of municipalities, that means for the voters there that's the way to vote. That is exactly what I said to Mr Bosma, but I am also saying it now in reply to Mrs Van Dijk's question. You cannot say in that particular municipality: I do not want to vote like this, but I would like to vote with the old ballot. The only way to try this is to apply it in real life. So there is only one ballot available there. There were also comments on the ten-year duration, including by Mr Ellian. It doesn't mean we have to experiment for ten years. However, it is intended that a number of elections will allow experiments to be carried out. If the experiments were to go well and if it were to be decided to introduce such a new ballot, then the Tickets Act would have to be amended. That's a legislative change and it's just going through parliament. That'll take at least a year and a half. During the legislative process you could carry out further experiments until the Election Act has been amended. I would like to stress that every time, after each election involving such an experiment, it is evaluated and discussed with the Chamber. In other words, nothing happens and nothing changes without the Chamber being fully included in it. It is really a matter of gradually scaling up responsibly, with the aim of making it structural, but only if that is indeed the wish of the Chamber and if the experiments give sufficient confidence to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u78	There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u79	One step at a time. Along with the Room. But it is for the purpose of getting it permanently. I think this is something everyone's been hacking into a little bit: why are we doing this? There are two experiments for which you can ask whether it is a solution or not. There's quite a lot of resistance in this room. There's time pressure on it, to which the colleague of the VVD pointed well. If it's wise to go through with this, I'll ask the Minister. Is it wise to decide now? My answer may lie in the question, but I want the question answered first by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u80	What's in store is a bill that makes it possible to experiment with it. This could already be done in the March municipal elections. You don't have to. You can do that with an election after that. However, it is necessary that the bill be introduced, otherwise we will continue to say to each other that the ballot is large and impervious. Then we may run into the fact that not all parties fit the ballot at the next Lower House elections. Then we missed the opportunity to do this experiment and see if this will solve the problems we have. It is a problem for the electorate, because it is an irresistible ballot and an incontrovertible ballot because of the small letters and numbers. Furthermore, it is indeed also difficult for the entire counting process. Mrs Leijten knows better than anyone that it is incredibly important that we have careful results and the numbers of these large ballots are simply very difficult. It seems sensible to me, and that is why it is before us, to make such an experiment possible, in order to see if we will all be able to vote later, but that will take years, perhaps with a smaller and clearer ballot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u81	We are going to discuss the evaluation of the Lower House elections very soon. When I look at the points that the SP Group is going to raise, the counting process is absolutely a subject, as is the suggestion that fraud can take place. Being able to count well is also made more difficult, because, for example, we have fewer polling stations. The fact that you have more voters at a polling station makes that process even more difficult. I would not necessarily like to see the size of the ballot, which we are discussing here, as the largest bottleneck, even if it is an experiment. When it comes to practical adjustments to make the elections freely accessible and less susceptible to fraud, I do not think that this is the biggest bottleneck, even in preparing this bill. If I see this legal process here tonight with the objections and the questions that are being asked, knowing that we are supposed to vote next week, I think it would be wise that we should agree here: at least we are going to take a little more time for it. At least we're gonna get together: we're gonna do the evaluation of the Lower House elections first. We do not put any pressure on it by saying that it is an option already in the municipal elections, because it also sets in motion all kinds of processes, which the Minister also knows what kind of pressure that brings. I am thinking of questions about the legitimacy of local democracy. Would it not then be wise, hearing the debate and considering the questions that remain, to say: we are going to do that evaluation of the Lower House elections first and then decide how to proceed with these experimental laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u82	I'm going to try to convince Mrs Leijten, but of course I don't know if I can. I fully agree with her that the evaluation of the Lower House elections is more important. It is particularly important this time, because the very special elections were because of the fact that we had to change the law twice here to make those elections possible at all. That had everything to do with corona. Still, it worked quite well, because we have had a higher turnout. So people went to vote and I think that was our main goal. We're going to evaluate it and we're going to look very carefully at it. This is a trajectory that has been deployed much earlier. It has nothing to do with corona. Nothing at all! In fact, my predecessor once tried to make such an experiment possible. That did not happen at the time for all kinds of reasons. I always had nice debates with Mrs Leijten's predecessor and the SP was very enthusiastic about this change, because it makes it easier for voters to vote. The number of polling stations is, in principle, separate from this, but this was not lower in the previous elections than in the previous elections. We will, of course, talk about this when we discuss the evaluation. The number of members of the polls was much higher than in the previous elections, but we all come back to that in detail. But again, that is not the intrinsic justification of the bill before us. The intrinsic justification is that we simply see that the current ballot has run against its limits and that it is neither manageable nor easily readable for voters. We also see the experiences abroad, from other countries but also from Dutch voters abroad. The electorate abroad has already worked with it on a number of elections and it seems to have worked well there. We want to look at a very small scale because we are not talking about a handful of small municipalities in the Netherlands or this could work. That's a small step, not a big step. I very much hope that Mrs Leijten will make that possible. If the House wants to talk to me about whether it is wise to do it or not in the next municipal elections, then I am of course open to that, because I also see the point that the time has become a little tight. I just outlined this in reply to Mr Ellian's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u83	Mrs. Leijten still has.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u84	In the previous elections, which were even more special, we faced challenges that we were able to resolve in the short term before that election. If we have an extra large ballot at the next election, I am convinced that we will get it resolved. So that doesn't depend on taking a decision on that experimental law now. But I have to tell you that the preparation of this bill has raised many questions for me, no matter how enthusiastic someone may have been in the past. I believe that the discussion of the legislative proposal raises even more questions, including from other groups. I am talking about essential points. Because choosing something so special, I don't think it's wise to say right now: we're pushing it through the Chamber. I think it would be wise if we did that evaluation right and then decided whether or not to continue experimenting. I hope that the Minister will take this into account, also because it may be able to deepen the debate on this issue. This experimental law really seems to fall out of the sky, still separate from the Housing Act, which has been cycled in it. But I told you, it's two experiments, one of which we're going to do and one of which we still have to work out. It's all quite a mess. The Minister said it himself: in the end, the goal is to perpetuate it. That goes a little far for me, too. An experiment can also fail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u85	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u86	Then we must also be able to say: then we will not do it. If the stake is "we will do it, because eventually we want to change it anyway," then I wonder what exactly we will say yes to later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mrs. Leijten shouldn't put something in my mouth. If I said that by mistake, I'll correct it here. You're going to experiment because you think it helps to work towards a more manageable ballot for the election. That's the goal. However, I have also made it very clear that every step we take in this matter is always in the Chamber's hands. That was also a question from Mrs Leijten, which I shall come back to in a moment. The only thing that makes the Chamber possible now is small-scale experimenting with the new ballot in a very limited number of municipalities. If a follow-up step were to be taken, it would be discussed with the Chamber first. If it ever leads to anything, I hope so, but I am not saying that it is happening, because you are also experimenting to see that it may have to be different, better or not; that is also a possibility, then it requires an amendment to the Election Act, with a very careful parliamentary process. I just said that's gonna take at least a year and a half. This is a small step. There's a way back, absolutely. But it is the only way forward if we want it in this Chamber and in the other Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u88	I just heard the Minister say: there may come a time when not every party that participates in the elections will fit in with the ballot. But you can't do that, can you? That's just a question, you know. It seems weird to me. If you're in 20 electoral circles, you're supposed to be on the ballot, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u89	Of course. But I want to say that you might have a ballot that you have to turn around because there are lots on the back, or you have two ballots because it just doesn't fit that one format anymore. I can tell Mrs van der Plas, by the way, that the ballots are made by the suppliers of the municipalities. Those are Procura, Paragon, Joh. Enschedé and the Election Specialist. They also use subcontractors. They have to do with this format on their machines. There's just a limited market for that. They print a lot, so they're huge amounts they work with. But of course the party will be on the ballot. Only, the question is whether it can be done on one piece of a somewhat clear ballot or whether you have to turn it around or work with a second ballot, or whether it might be on that one sheet, but that parties come together instead of just sitting next to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u90	Okay. Then I'm reassured. I thought, "Hey, I hear something weird." Thank you for the names of those printers. Anyway, that doesn't mean there's no other printers who can handle that size, I guess. But it's up to us to find out. Thank you for these names. Then we'll check them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u91	You're welcome. It is therefore about printing, cutting and folding in large quantities in a limited time determined by the Kieswet. That's the point. Mrs van der Plas will immediately agree that it is important to take account of implementation practice. We can't ask the impossible. I shall continue with Mrs Leijten's point. So we are talking about the law, which creates frameworks. You get AMvBs for the specific execution. She called attention to that. The precise design and rules for conducting an experiment should be laid down in a general measure of governance. The Act of Experiment states that general administrative measures must be pre-established for four weeks in both Chambers. This means that if this Chamber agrees to the legislative proposal, the experimental decision will be put forward new ballots. Even then, the Court can simply ask questions and make comments. Mrs Leijten, of course, knows it all very precisely. The evaluation always leads to informing the Chamber and therefore to holding a debate on that evaluation. Mr Ellian and, moreover, Mr Sneller asked what is being evaluated and how it is being evaluated. Can we measure whether voters feel well represented, so that the link between voters and elected voters does not deteriorate? The evaluation as such is laid down in the legislative proposal. The criteria are set out in the temporary experimental decision, which I have just said is still pending. The evaluation criteria might include the appreciation of the electorate for the use of the ballot, including the format of that ballot and the use of logos, how voters appreciate the candidates' overview, the items that are included, such as the candidates' overview sent home, the application of tools such as the mold for visually impaired people and, of course, the measurement of how the election went and the number of invalid votes, because of course you are trying to find out why invalid votes have been cast. I would therefore like to look at the whole of these aspects and then inform the Court of Justice about them. In other words, anything you can measure, you must also try to measure. Some things are, of course, difficult to measure. You cannot ask people why they have cast a particular vote; that is the secret of the voting booth. But anything you can evaluate of the way the vote is cast will be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u92	Mr Sneller for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u93	In view of the broad comments on the link between voters and elected representatives and given the limited number of municipalities, I would ask the Minister to look at the evaluation criteria as well as whether it is possible to do something with surveys in those municipalities, in order to see if it has become more or less so. Perhaps I missed it in the quick list, but could it also be looked at whether in the municipalities where this model is used there are more votes going to the list reader than in the other municipalities or in the previous elections in the same municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u94	The latter can be done. That's what we've done with voters abroad. I don't know, but I'll check this out, see if the small scale of the first experiment also... well, if it's possible, it can. I'd like to try. Once again, I believe that the only limit lies in the political choice the people make, because of course you cannot involve them in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u95	I would find it a little dangerous to look too much at the voices abroad. Because the voters abroad are quite atypical. These will generally be highly educated expats.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u96	Mr Bosma has a very special picture of Dutch people abroad. I don't think there's just expats abroad. But I do agree with him that you cannot translate it one-on-one into a handful of municipalities in the Netherlands. I'm not. I am just saying that we have already been able to see how this is going and how it has worked out. And there was no significant difference due to the mode of vote. So in advance there is no reason to assume that this would be the case if you started experimenting in Dutch municipalities. But, as Mr Sneller said, perhaps it would be wise to include that aspect in the evaluation. Mr Sneller spoke specifically about the first model, which we would not like to work on. As I said in my introduction, the whole history of voting varies from country to country. Norway has a system with open boxes in the voting booth. That's where the loose piles are. The voter in Norway sees in the voting booth all those stacks and also how many notes there are left. It's all visible. It doesn't seem to have any problem with that. If a pile has become very thin, it might say that a lot of people voted for it. That is not a problem there, but that may of course be different with us. If we are to give each other a different appreciation, then there must be a solution. In any case, it seems important to us that this display is not visible to others. Otherwise, all those present in the polling room can see which party a voter would take out a ballot from that display. I believe that all this is happening in Sweden. Well, they do that right there. We would like to do that differently. Let's see...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr Ellian for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u98	I must honestly say that it may be a somewhat longer interruption, so I really must ask your permission to do so, Mr President. Otherwise, I can do it in the second term. I'm having some trouble with all the information I have to take and all the references to countries, so I'm gonna take a look at you. I'm not gonna argue with you for minutes. You're nodding. Whatever's bothering me, I'm gonna tell the Minister... You say Sweden, you say Norway. I've looked at it globally. I don't know if you can expect a member of parliament to let me have all that... There are a lot of choices to make. Germany has a particular ballot, Italy has that, Spain has that, and so many European countries have that. They have their own history, their own parliamentary history. I would have liked it so much if we had had an overview of examples, with the context of how the letter secret and the voting secret are weighed there. I find that reference to Norway a little difficult. I can't do much with that. I can't weigh that much. I accept it now for notification, but I hope that at some point you will make some sort of overview, for example, a comparative overview: what do I have to choose from? Maybe you can still promise. The VVD itself is not against this experimental law, but there are so many choices. Now I miss the overview: what can I choose from at all, what are the objections, what are the possibilities, what are the examples? Maybe the Italians think something else makes more sense than what we're going to do. Could you at least take this with you in the rest of your term? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u99	It's, I think, also because this has such a long history. That's what's bothering me. I also had to see what happened before. For example, in 2012, a very comprehensive note was sent to the Chamber describing all these systems in other countries. This was then done in preparation for the legislative proposal submitted by the previous cabinet. The documents accompanying this legislative proposal, particularly in relation to the countries to which we have been looking to come up with these proposals, contain rather detailed descriptions of how things are going there. I understand that, through the questions raised in this debate and the answers I give, that leads to further questions. I also understand very well that not everyone has read all the pieces, let alone Kamerletters from 2012. I am, of course, very happy to make that clear to those who wish to do so in preparation for the vote. I really think it has something to do with the long history that all of this has. Mr Ellian asked about the difference between the electorate abroad so far and what is now being proposed. Indeed, in the experimental law for voters abroad, it was true that when the voter only ticks the party and not a person, that vote automatically went to the number one of that party. That's how we did it abroad. But in the proposal before us to anchor it in the Tickets Act, that is no longer the case. Because it fits better with the character of the candidate system we have, it has been chosen to bring it fully in line with the current draft Temporary Experimentation Act. In other words, you also ask the electorate abroad to vote for the party and for the candidate chosen by him or her. Of course, that can also be the number one. That is what the proposal says. Mrs Leijten asked why there is a distinction between people abroad and people in the Netherlands in the replacement letter vote. That's because people abroad vote by letter. They cannot wait until the day of the vote to cast their votes. Voters abroad will, if their letter-voting evidence has gone unreasonably, see that much earlier, because otherwise it is not possible to send a replacement letter-voting certificate to them. We just know that mail, a little depending on where abroad, sometimes takes a long time. It also really happens that replacement letter ballots do not arrive until the voters have nothing to do with it, so it is too late. In order to solve that problem, it has been made possible to send the replacement letter voting card by e-mail to the electorate who so requests, because the post just doesn't make it anymore. Voters in the Netherlands can request a replacement voting pass from the municipality until one day before the vote, until 12.00 noon. That's so short notice that an e-mail wouldn't actually have much added value there. I hope I have answered the questions, but of course I also have a number of amendments which I would like to deal with. I shall begin with Mr Omtzigt's amendment to item No. 7. I have to be very specific about this amendment. This amendment deals essentially with two things, if I have read it correctly. The minutes must no longer be published without delay, but within 24 hours. That's what the amendment says. And the digital file, i.e. the results of the addition process, should be sent to the Election Council as soon as possible after the approval of the elected members has been decided upon. Those are the two elements of the amendment. I have looked very closely at it and, frankly, both seem to me to be a decline in relation to the current situation. That is why I am looking at Mr Omtzigt, because I can hardly imagine that that is his intention. The current Election Act provides that the mayor must publish the minutes of the polling stations without delay, i.e. as soon as possible, the most rapid possible, after determination of the outcome at municipal level. That's very fast and that would be slower if you changed that to within 24 hours. I would like to ask Mr Omtzig whether he would now like to extend or shorten that deadline. Then the second part. I also very much agree with him: the more transparency in the determination of these election results, the better it is. That movement has also been set in motion. The Tickets Act has been required since 2019 to publish the minutes without delay. In the Temporary Election Law covid-19 that is the law created following COOVID-19 it is regulated that municipalities should also publish the digital add-on file. The legislative proposal New procedure establishing election results is pending before the Chamber of Representatives, which is finally laid down in the Election Act. So all these documents are centrally unlocked. The Election Council manages a so-called "portal" with a link to all municipalities' web pages on which those documents have been published. This is a transparency that has added value in particular before the election results have been established, because then any errors can still be corrected. The bill I was just talking about sets out how that correction should be made. If I have read the amendment correctly, I would say that it does not actually lead to an improvement on the current situation and those after consideration of the legislative proposal New procedure establishing election results. Nor does this amendment improve the digital file. So the way things are going around here, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to advise against it. I think we can agree on the goal. That is why there may be opportunities to meet each other. You might be able to draw some of the elements I have just mentioned from the legislative proposal, but well, that is perhaps very creative thinking, because then it could go into the next municipal elections. It's just a suggestion. Moreover, I expect to be able to send the note following the report of the legislative proposal to the Chamber this month. I hope that the treatment will begin soon afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u100	The amendment tabled by Mr Robles Piquer concerns Amendment No 1, which seeks to amend the text of the motion for a resolution by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 7 has been
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u101	Yes. I have three amendments tabled by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u102	One moment, there is an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u103	As I read the Tickets Act, not the minutes of individual polling stations are made public on the Internet site, but the minutes of the municipality. The purpose of this amendment was precisely to ensure that the minutes of all individual polling stations, including the votes per candidate, are made public. I had recorded "24 hours" and "without delay" to set a deadline. We have seen the last elections, in 2017, that some municipalities had it available behind the counter, but did not put it online. Newspapers had to go to all those municipalities to get them available. That was the background. That "24 hours" I love to turn into "unrelenting," but the intention is that you can check from behind your computer how the polling stations in your area have determined the result. As a candidate or an interested citizen, you can simply look at where the preferred votes, the votes on a particular candidate or a particular party, are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u104	I share that objective with Mr Omtzigt, but that is already settled. The minutes of the polling stations, at that level, should also be made public. In the jargon, we're talking about the N10.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u105	Okay. Then I'm gonna check to see if those N10s are public, but I didn't see them online before all the elections. So that's the reason for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u106	Okay. In any case, I am pleased to note that we are in complete agreement on what should be done. Of course, I can very well imagine that Mr Omtzig wants to check what I have just outlined. But that is already the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u107	I see Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u108	Because I have not been able to study the amendment very well and we are talking here about a temporary law that mentions a specific number of articles that will not expire after ten years, I wondered what would happen if we adopted the amendment. Is that gonna work? It also matters how we deal with the legislative proposal, from which the note on the basis of the report still comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u109	Now I don't know... it could be me. You are talking about the Omtzigt amendment. That's got two parts. From the first part, I said that it is not necessary, because it is already settled. It's about the police report. That's been settled since 2019. From the second part, I said it was settled in the temporary law we made for covid. That is what is going to happen once and for all, as laid down in the Election Act, if, of course, the Chamber agrees to the legislative proposal for a new electoral procedure, which the Chamber still has to deal with. So you're right. If you were to take that part out of it and record it in this law, then it will have to be transposed at some point, if you want to continue with it. Suppose that experiment law expires and you don't change it in the Tickets Act, you'd have to change it in the Tickets Act. If that's what Mr. Sneller means... yeah, okay, well, at least we understand each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u110	We see him nodding. Then Mr. Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u111	Let me turn to the first part of Mr Omtzigt's amendment and the 'without delay'. Would it be workable for you, I ask the Minister, if it would say: immediately, but it is a bit old-legal, but it fits nicely into the law within 24 hours? This then meets Mr Omtzig's wish that municipalities should publish those N10 documents, or what it is called, online at least within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u112	You want them to make the minutes, the N10 and the N11, all available as soon as possible. I'd look into that, but then it should change something. My view is that municipalities do so without delay. So I am not against the addition proposed by Mr Ellian, but then I should have an indication that there are municipalities that do not do so immediately, and I do not believe that I have that image now. But let me double-check that so that I can clarify that in the second term. Then I have Mrs Leijten's amendments. The first amendment makes logos mandatory. I think that... but well, deputy thinking is never a good idea. Of course, that logo has advantages, because that makes it easier for people to recognize it. But to make it compulsory, I think it goes a long way. Because what if a party says, "I don't want that. I don't want a logo. I don't do that"? Then I'd say that's the choice of that party. I don't really want to decide that for them. I don't keep track of all that, or every party has a logo. Most of them will just have it. But once again, I would like to propose that this be left to the parties. I assume that the vast majority of the parties will simply appear on the ballot card with a logo. But I do not recommend the amendment because I want to leave that space to the parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u113	You spoke of Mrs Leijten's first amendment. But I think it's about number 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u114	That is indeed about number 9, excuse. And that makes it very confusing, because I'm coming to number eight now. The amendment in part No. Mrs Leijten sees 8 as not allowing experiments with the first model. That is the so-called Norwegian model. The Norwegian model is one of the two models the cabinet would like to experiment with, but we do not want to start with. In fact, it is only feasible on a small scale and not on a slightly larger scale. Hence the intention to start experiments with the second model. If experiments were to be carried out with the first model, and that is not the intention at present, then this could only be done with an experimental decision which would be put before the Chamber in any case, should that intention be made in the event of a subsequent election. So it would also be possible to wait with that choice. The Chamber then always has the possibility to choose not to experiment with that model, depending on the effect that the cabinet would have given to such an experiment. That is why I would like to keep it in the proposal and advise against Mrs Leijten's amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u115	The amendment in part No. 8 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u116	I have one last amendment, Mr Leijten's amendment to part No. 10. I actually said it in answer to a question: for voters abroad we had the situation that a vote on a party and not a vote on a candidate is automatically a vote on the number 1. So that is no longer the case in the proposal before us, because I think that is better suited to the nature of the candidate system as we know it. I also outlined that the experience is that only a very limited percentage of voters abroad make their choice in this way. During the last elections, this percentage fell a little further; at that time it was 1.54%. My proposal, therefore, is to do as the proposal says, and not to amend it like the Amendment No. 10, by Mrs Leijten, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I would advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u117	The amendment in part No. 10 has been dissuaded. Now, Minister, the situation is that there are two amendments to item No. 10. I think that is because of the fact that both of the laws before us today are subject to an amendment. 10 has been tabled, with a slightly similar effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u118	That's what I thought. It's the same proposal. I thought it was the same amendment to both proposals. Well, that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u119	That's how you dissuaded them both?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u120	Yes, that's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u121	There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u122	In another experiment, during the previous elections, namely the letter vote, it was stipulated that if you had put the voting form in an envelope and added the voting pass, we would actually put it aside as an invalid vote. Because if you did, you'd break someone's secret vote. The idea is that you open the first envelope and then you see if there's a voice card in it. If so, you put the letter aside and then it can't be linked anymore. Eventually that last envelope, with the voting form in it, is opened and counted. But now there were people, it was quite a large part of them who had put them together. That's what we found out. Of a lot of people who intended to vote but had made a mistake in the procedure, those votes would then be declared invalid. Then, in consultation with the Election Council, the Lower House, which oversees the elections, and with this Minister decided to allow those votes anyway. This situation was warned during the legal treatment; it had been discussed. It wasn't necessary to record that coulance back then. We think it might be useful to do that. 'Cause you're gonna be in such an experiment and you're gonna find out that a lot of people have thought: I'm gonna vote for a party and then I'm done. If they make that mistake, then those votes would be put aside, while the intention was to vote and participate in the voting process. I think it would be wise to make it clear now that in that case that voice counts, because people went to the voting booth and filled out that voting form. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to deal with this, so that we do not have to say, in the event of an experiment with real elections, that there are a lot of voters who have done this wrong, and unfortunately we cannot count those votes. It's just an experiment, the minister explains all the time. In such an experiment, you have to reduce the possibility of invalid votes. That is where these two amendments are concerned. 10 to, both of which relate to another bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u123	I understand Mrs Leijten's speech. I also agree with her that you have to do whatever you can in front of her to prevent people from voting invalidly. We all know under what pressure we all made that letter vote possible at that time. So that did not work out as we would normally have liked to, namely testing, experimenting and then implementing. I couldn't. That was the choice we made with open eyes. We've faced those risks, and we've talked about them. It was a very special situation because of corona. About what's going on here: there are two ways to look at it. I think Mrs Leijten's way is very valid. I understand that very well. But there are others who objected to the way we did it with voters abroad, where a vote on a party automatically led to a vote on the number one vote. I think that's valid; that's allowed too. That is why we are asking the electorate to choose the party and the candidate, which is in line with the system we have in the Netherlands, namely a system of candidates, on one ballot and with a clear indication. You also do an experiment because you want to know if something really works, but at least the tests didn't prove that that's an obstacle. I would also point out that if Mrs Leijten's amendment to item No. 10 would be adopted, even if it is not entirely clear which candidate should be included in that vote. I do not recommend the amendment, but I would like to suggest to Mrs Leijten that we at least make that clear. Is it the intention of the amendment that that vote should then go to the party's number one? Mr President, I hope that I have dealt with all the points sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u124	This has put an end to the Prime Minister's response in the first term. I'm looking at the members. Is there a need for a second term? I can imagine that is the case. Then I shall return to the list and first of all give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the clear, point-by-point answer to all the questions that lie ahead. As far as the ballot is concerned, I understand the objective, but I do not think it is sensible. Also looking at what a voting booth looks like in Sweden, and I have less experience with that than this minister, I think... no experience either, I hear! Sweden has two things. Sweden does not have a huge ballot, even if you do so, because Sweden has a district system. There are 349 members of the Reichstag, but there are about twenty districts, which make people elected by district only twenty, fifteen to twenty. I invite you to just see what the trays look like where you take out the ballots. They're all over there. There are often three elections at once: the local, provincial and national elections, blue, white and yellow. You can take them out yourself. It doesn't really seem like a stable system in certain voting systems. Taking it out of the booths doesn't seem like a great idea here in the Netherlands. I understand what you are saying about the second ballot and I thank you for the attempt, but it has not convinced me yet that it is wise to take the names of the ballot. I would prefer to introduce a regional list, because I understand the point of the size of the ballot. That's problematic and not something that's been made up. It is, by the way, a little reduced in the proposal of the State Commission by about doubling the guarantee to be able to participate in the elections. And it is made less by the government in the proposal that there is by increasing the number of signatures you need to collect in order to participate in the national elections to 5,000. Now there are only 30 per constituency. So you can already participate if you collect 30 signatures somewhere. There are other ways of getting that up, by not letting parties who have little support be on the list. They're used by the government, too. Well, that doesn't convince me. That's exactly what you're gonna lose those parties that you know are never gonna get more than 1,000 votes. They don't touch the 30,000 votes. I regret that the Danish system is not going to be investigated. I would have liked to have seen that, also in parallel with what is happening with that civil forum system. The civil forum system still has a few problems. If everyone is going to vote on the list, the whole list will be destroyed in the civil forum system, because those votes count as people's votes. If everyone votes on the list, the system of the Citizens' Forum will even get someone with one voice in it. I'll write a blog about it sometime. This could lead to very unstable situations. Finally, my amendment. Thank you for the explanation. We have more or less removed the amendment from the legislative proposal, on which you are going to hand over the note on the report next month. I'm glad to hear that last commitment. So there's nothing new in it. The only thing we've done is to change "without delay" into "within 24 hours," because a number of municipalities fail to do it within 24 hours, because they find it difficult to scan it and put it on the website. I thought Mr Ellian's suggestion that a maximum time limit should be set at that time. It could be 24 hours or 48 hours. You'll have a week to object and that's time enough, but then you will. So it doesn't settle anything but that bill. I therefore did not fully understand the Minister's explanation. Because I don't see all the N10s. It also regulates that it is well preserved centrally. I would also like to look behind the scenes to see how this can be done properly. I think we want the same thing: for every voter who makes a bit of an effort, because you have to do so, a traceable electoral process. That's exactly the basis of your election. The confidence is great if everyone understands the election process and if everyone understands the counting process. We need to be very careful about that. Finally, Mr President, one last suggestion. If this bill is passed, which I do not hope will happen, but I see what is happening here in the Chamber, I will give the Minister the following consideration. The Venice Commission has indicated that it will never make any major changes to the electoral system more than a year before the election date because of the lead time and because of the idea that you can tweak the elections. The latter is not intended here, I am sure. Do not go too short with that deadline towards a city council, which will decide in January to introduce a new ballot in March. Don't do that and then get a re-arrangement a year later. If you do it a month in advance and you're gonna explain it, sometimes that's asking for trouble. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u126	Thank you. Mr Sneller waived his second term, as did Mrs Inge van Dijk. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u127	Mr. Chairman. I had considered it for a moment: once but never again when it comes to cycling the House Act in an experiment of the Kieswet, but the Minister said that she is not going to do it like this anymore and that she should not do it like this. I think we should agree that next time we really don't accept that as a room. I would just like to explain that with the amendment on item No. However, 8 provide for an experiment with the ballot which is also used abroad. However, we say that the scope of the experimental law is seriously reduced to that one experiment. It is done in a small number of municipalities, as the minister says. We'll evaluate that well and then we'll take a closer look. In doing so, we are reducing what I was concerned about in the interruption, namely that we are allowing for more experiments by taking some sort of irreversible step, while we are merely trying to see if there is anything else possible for that very large voting form. That's what that really means. I would like to suggest to the Minister that she amends her advice. We're going to see if there's one thing we can do. I also agree with Mr Omtzigt and Mr Ellian, who are wondering whether we should do this in the next municipal elections. Isn't it better to prepare it well for the provincial state elections, for example, a year later? Then we can get it right and a good trial can take place. We can therefore set up a good evaluation so that we do not get any back-to-back scrambles about it. But I have also been clear about this in my interruptions. Then there is the amendment to item No. 9, about the logo. The minister says she doesn't want to make it because you can't have a logo either. That is the thrust of the amendment, of course. The amendment does not impose a sanction, but it does say that we believe that these logos are necessary for the 2.5 million people who cannot read properly. With these logos they know in any case that this is the list of the numbers and the names of their choice. There is no sanction, so it does not mean that we exclude parties who do not want a logo in principle and therefore do not deposit it from elections. I would never be for that. Then there is the amendment to item No. 10. It's supposed to happen to the first candidate on the list. That is also stated in the explanatory statement. I'll see if I can change the legal text accordingly. It has to do with the fact that you do not want people who think they voted well to vote in the end. That's not the point. The voices of people who go to the voting booth and fill out a voting form should be counted, unless they have deliberately declared the form invalid, but not because they have made a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u128	Thank you. Mr Ellian waived his second term. Mrs Leijten points out that the amendment to item No. 10 has now been amended and No 10 has been amended. 11 has been given. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u129	Thank you. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that experiments may be carried out with new models of the ballot at elections for representatives of the people, with the aim of achieving a more convenient ballot and faster counting without increasing the distance between voters and representatives of the people;]] [[noting that, for example, the considerations "failure to vote' and the perceived distance from the representatives of the people are not clear in the experiments with the ballot;]] [[Whereas it is important that these experiments provide the right information to make good decisions for future elections;]] [[whereas as a Lower House we can only carry out our controlling task if we can test the reports of the experiments against the research assignment;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to send to the Chamber by 1 February 2022, or earlier, if possible, all the research questions and research plans of the experiments with the ballot, and to transmit the reports of the experiments with the ballot to the Chamber for information not later than two months after the date of those elections, so that citizens and representatives of the people have a fair view of the extent to which the experiment has been or has not been successful,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35455-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u130	Thank you. Mr Bosma waives his second term. Finally, Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. Mr. Chairman. The purpose of the new ballot is faster and easier. We know that speed is not always a good criterion to push something through or to get a bill through the Chamber quickly. I get a sense of déjà vu from the experiment with the voting machines. That too was not a success. Even then, there was a warning. Luckily, that experiment was reversed back then. It is precisely at a time when citizens' confidence in politicians has fallen to a low point that I think it is important that the voters know who they are going to vote for and that the names are clearly on the list, not that voters vote on a number, but on a person, on a person who represents their interests. The minister just showed us the current ballot. She looked at it like that's a big disaster. I prefer such a large ballot that is difficult to fold until we ever have a good system that is 100% sure and user-friendly. As long as there isn't, I don't think we should do this. I also asked about the city councils. If this bill is passed, they will have little time to experiment. As a Chamber, we often get the criticism that we deal with legislation too quickly and sometimes too carelessly and quickly. So I think it is important to take the time to do so. If this bill is adopted, municipalities must have all the space and time to make proper preparations. Finally, Mr President. Right of choice is a great good and a fundamental right. We have to be careful about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u132	Mrs Arib, there is another interruption by Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u133	I fully agree with what Mr Arib says about careful handling of municipal councils. She also reflects on how we should deal with legislation in the Lower House. It blames the Minister for wanting to go through this law with steam and boiling water. We've had this law since May of last year. He was there for a while. Two years ago, we had a committee debate on a main letter containing the results of the tests and the different models. In my view, the discussions we have had, for example in the debate on accountability, have dealt with the fact that we have to debate basically in an earlier stage. The Minister also outlined history from 2012. I wonder whether we have not done that process as a Chamber very carefully and whether some of the discussions we are currently having should not have been on the table by 2019. So much legislation and energy has gone into making these laws, I think that Mrs Arib should have sent this signal by 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u134	I couldn't agree more. I'm not just blaming the Minister, I'm blaming ourselves. If there's a bill here, we need to take our time and we need to switch all the pros and cons. That must be done carefully. I have just asked about the municipalities when interrupting, but also about the new ballot. That's what the Minister says it's easy. It's a little simple to suggest. She can't guarantee that such an experiment will work properly. Of course I am also in favour of an alternative, but I cannot agree with this alternative. This has indeed to do with the fact that it must be done in a timely and careful manner. Mr Ellian has just objected to the fact that many countries are being cited as examples. These countries have very good examples, but we cannot overlook them. I can't see them. If we do it, we have to do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u135	But the Minister outlined: in 2012, a predecessor of mine sent all that information to the Chamber. I myself looked back at the 2019 committee debate, which my predecessor also did. There all the models have just been on the table and the Minister said that she intended to send the Chamber an experimental law. Two groups, GroenLinks and D66, ask a question about these models in that debate. Those groups are actually quite positive about it. No one else says anything about it, while the minister says she's going to come up with a law. I would therefore ask Mrs Arib to take a more critical look at the role of the Chamber. If we want to take this as a way of working with a future cabinet in a moment, we need to mark it more seriously at that stage, because we can save everyone a lot of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u136	Then you'll find me by your side. I couldn't agree more, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u137	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting until 10.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u138	I give the floor to the Minister to answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll see if I've got my stuff sorted out. Yes. A number of comments were made in the second period. I'm treating them in the order in which the speakers were just standing here. Mr Omtzigt would have liked to have seen a more detailed reflection on the Danish electoral system. I can really imagine that, you know. In the response to the Remkes Committee of State, however, I think that was less detailed than Mr Omtzigt would like. I could very well imagine Mr Omtzigt coming back to that when the Chamber comes to speak with me or my successor about the electoral system. That is actually a very logical moment to let different variants go through the review again. I note Mr Omtzigt's wish. Once again, I think it is a very natural time to discuss this in greater detail when it comes to electoral matters. That moment is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u140	That raises a question for Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u141	Can we then note that the bill is treated with one vote more choice and at least comes to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u142	Well, then I'm in a bit of a dilemma. Before the cabinet became a missionary, I also announced this intention. I can tell the Chamber that the Council of State has now advised on this. That is what I am considering now, and so is the cabinet, but the cabinet is now, of course, to a very large extent missionary. So I cannot give that to Mr Sneller, but the subject is, of course, very strongly on the agenda. You will have to wait and see what the reflection will yield internally in the cabinet, but I am sure that this cabinet or a subsequent cabinet will of course want to continue with that electoral system. I know Mr Sneller and his enthusiasm for the Civil Forum and the electoral system. However, I have naturally seen in the parties, in the elections, that several other suggestions have also played a role. So that will undoubtedly be a very lively, substantive and comprehensive debate. I hope I can still feed it, but I can't guarantee it. Then there is Mr Omtzigt's other comment. He pointed out that his amendment and Mr Ellian's suggestion might be an improvement on the current situation. I do think that 'unfortunately' is better than 'unfortunately, but in any case within 24 hours', because this will result in municipalities taking more time on balance. They'll think, "It has to be done immediately," but, yes, I have 24 hours. While, on the other hand, there may still be a few municipalities that don't make it to 24 hours, but you want to stick to "without delay' anyway. I continue to support it, because I do not think it is an improvement on the current situation. On the second part of his amendment, he says: that is copy-pastes from the bill. But that's not exactly what it is in my opinion and we've really looked at it. The difference is: after determination of the result or for determination of the result. I am convinced that it will only make sense for the results to be established. Mr Omtzigt made a comment on the Venice Commission. I would also like to make a number of other comments, both from the first deadline and from the second period. Mr Omtzigt's question is, of course, about the time that governments and municipalities have to prepare for changes in the elections. I think that is a very serious point. I just outlined to Mr Ellian how we could make it possible to experiment on a very small scale in next year's municipal elections, just because you miss those elections if you don't. But in the debate I have a certain concern with the Chamber about the possibility that this is too soon and that there will therefore be too much pressure on it. This pressure may be on a limited number of municipalities, but it is good that there is pressure in these municipalities. The time schedule and deadlines are tight and that really listens very closely. I myself started with a profit warning, but I am picking up the message from the Chamber so that I think it is wise to say: let's let the municipal elections of next year go ahead and, of course, let us have the first experiments with that new ballot in the autumn 2022 reclassification elections. This means that the municipalities that can participate, of course, only the municipalities that participate in reclassification elections, have much more time to prepare themselves for this. In doing so, I hope to respond to a concern which I had the impression was that it was living a little wider in this Chamber today. There are a number of other points. Mrs Leijten referred back to her amendment to item No. 8, which would mean that we could only experiment with the second model. If its amendment is adopted, the legal basis for the so-called Norwegian model will lapse. I'd be sorry to hear that. I would like to point out once again to Mrs Leijten that the House can always say, if it wishes, in the decision: we simply do not want that. There is that possibility. But the Chamber thus deprives itself of the possibility of judging on a further proposal that could be made to apply this model to experiments. Again, that's about the whole practical elaboration of how you would do that. You should not have a copy of other countries, but you can be inspired by other countries and it should apply to our Dutch electoral system. So I have heard her very well, but I would like to maintain my judgment on this matter. The same is true of the amendment on item No. 9, about the logo. In the Netherlands, we do have some peculiarities in our electoral system. Think, for example, of the fact that parties are allowed to participate in our elections without indication. They don't have to keep a name. That is very special and it doesn't happen much, but it's okay. That is what the Tickets Act says; it simply allows that. You can imagine that there are also parties who do not have a logo and want to participate. I want to leave that space in the confidence that in the vast majority of cases there will be a logo. Since I am with Mrs Van der Plas now, I would also like to say a few words about her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u143	There is an interruption by Mrs Van Dijk first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u144	You may find it really mosquito-like, but you said about those municipalities: let's go for the reclassification election. But reclassification elections usually concern smaller municipalities which are growing larger. So if you want a little experiment with small towns, I'm afraid that's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u145	That is a point that Mrs Van Dijk is right to make. I'm going to see which re-organisational elections are on the table for next year and whether it can be there under the conditions we have outlined, namely that it should be clear municipalities where you can experiment on a small scale. I think it is possible, as has just been said to me by the officials who have been working on it for a long time. But I'm gonna double-check it. My main commitment, of course, would be that we should at least not start working on the municipal elections in March next year, but on the next elections. Those are the reclassification elections. If Mrs Van Dijk is right on this point, it will be the Provincial State elections, which will follow. Then we should also see how we can prepare that. I will, of course, inform the Chamber about this. Then there is Mrs van der Plas' motion. 12. If we do not work towards the first experiments in the municipal elections, I would say that the motion is likely to see one month before the first experiment or something like that. If I may read Mrs van der Plas' motion in this way, perhaps she will be able to amend the motion on this point. That means I'll inform the Chamber early on how. In reply to Mr Sneller, I have just said what we are thinking about on that point. So I'd be happy to make that commitment anyway. With the change of date, I would like to give Mrs van der Plas' motion a Chamber of Justice. Mrs. Arib had a déjà vu to the voting machine. I hope that I have voted a little less because of my commitment that we do not necessarily want to do the first experiment in March. I think the ballot... Besides, I love our election. I also love the ballot. I love the red pencil. So if I didn't have the right look at the remark that folding is indeed a bit tricky... No, I'm not. We have been working on this for a very long time; Mr Sneller also said it. It has a very long history. I think sometimes it's just necessary to take a cautious step forward, but it's very important that at some point you can also say "we're not doing it like this, we're doing it differently" or "we're not doing it." That is also a result, but I very much hope that the Chamber will join in this relatively small movement. Hopefully it will lead to an improvement. But if we don't, we won't know. Then we have the shortcomings of the current ballot for the electorate and we have not tried to see if there are ways to make it easier for the Dutch electorate to vote. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u146	Thank you. This brings the second deadline to an end. The amendments were already provided with an opinion and the motion before us has been given Chamber's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u147	We are going to vote on Tuesday 12 October on the motion, the amendments tabled and both legislative proposals. Elections have been called a democratic celebration tonight. A debate is, of course, a celebration of democracy, but every celebration will end, so will this debate. So I close this debate and I thank the Minister for the answer, the MPs for the substantive contributions, the support in every possible form, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Thank you.
