ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome once again the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who replaces the Minister of State for Health in this third term in connection with illness, to the First Chamber. Following this third deadline, the vote on the amended motion will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-10.u3	Mr President, I am sorry that I was going to the chair so quickly, but I know that you are making a lot of haste today, so I thought I would go along with that. It is a very small textual change, which is actually the result of comments by the senators Koole and Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-10.u4	The motion-Nicolai c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas it is important that the OMT be asked to advise on the impact on the dissemination of COVID-19 of the March 2021 elections; Calls on the Government to consult the OMT in the short term on the impact on the dissemination of COOVID-19 of the elections in March 2021 and to ask OMT to update the opinion on a weekly basis on the current situation and to share these opinions with the First Chamber, and goes to the order of the day. This amended motion was signed by Mr Nicolaï. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets letter M, was letter I ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Nicolaï for tabling the motion. I understand that the Minister for the Interior, in the debate you had with her, has already indicated that the government is committed to allowing the elections to continue. The measures taken under the Temporary Election Law covid-19 aim to ensure that it can also be as safe as possible. The measures in the voting room are based on RIVM opinions, which are weighed weekly in the MCC-19, the COVID-19 Ministerial Committee. A number of additional measures have also been taken, such as increasing the number of proxyes, letter votes for people aged 70 and over, and the fact that there can be a three-day vote, avoiding crowds and peaks. The cabinet therefore sees no reason why the elections could not take place. I do not see any need to ask the OMT for further advice on this. Earlier, the Minister of the Interior indicated in your direction that at the time the cabinet was considering postponement, which would, of course, also be based on an opinion that could then be requested from the OMT in due course. Of course, not only the health aspects are being considered, but also the state-law aspects. I am referring to the right to vote and elections as an essential part of democracy. For example, you should think of the Council of State and the Election Council, which should be heard about it. But again, that is not the issue at the moment. We are going to be able to proceed with the elections. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-23-eerstekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Secretary of State.
