ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Piri of the Labour Party. I have been asked about the number of interruptions. I do want to keep that clear, and that was a request from Mr Kuzu, but I would like to call on you to keep the interruptions short because we have four directors and eighteen spokesmen today. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr President, perhaps a bit of a beginner's question, but in what way can I now take note of the schematics and worst case scenarios? I understand they were sent to the Chamber, but I actually have no idea where I can read them, see them or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u3	Would it be okay for us to find out, and I'll report it to you or to the Chamber later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u4	Yes, but that may mean that if I know how to do that, then I would ask for a suspension, because there might be something in it and I would like to ask a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u5	Yeah, we're gonna find out right away, and then I'll let you know, but we also agreed that we're actually gonna start the debate at 3:00. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. As an embassy, you've been begging for help since last March, because you're worried about your Afghan colleagues. Until two days before the fall of Kabul, it remains silent. And then you're told that you can only select three from the list of dependent family members. Thus decided in the Council of Ministers. Staff who have worked for the Netherlands for twenty years. Pick three. I wasn't born in this country but I'm always proud to be Dutch, but today I'm deeply ashamed. Mr. Chairman. France says: it is an honor to receive you. Even Victor Orbán says that the Afghans who supported Hungarian NATO troops are welcome. The Netherlands does not say anything, does nothing and is concerned about the increase in the number of asylum applications. What a shame. Mr. Chairman. There's still a lot of questions. 1. Why have the embassy's pleas and the chamber motions about an evacuation plan been ignored? What part of the phrase "all interpreters in safety before the end of Dutch presence" was not clear? 2. Why was there no use of the French offer to evacuate local staff in July and why is there nothing in the facts? 3. Why didn't the Taliban decide to relax the interpretation procedure until 14 August, a day before the Taliban took over the country? 4. Why hasn't local staff already received exit visas, when the Chamber demanded this on 7 July? 5. Is my impression that the cabinet is also not going to carry out the third motion, the Belhaj motion, and that former defence personnel, such as security guards, are no longer on the evacuation lists? 6. How can it be that on the day that Foreign Affairs calls on the Dutch to leave Afghanistan immediately, the cabinet also sends a letter to the European Commission to continue to evict Afghans in particular? 7. Why was the first ministerial crisis council not until 11 August, four days before the fall of Kabul? 8. Has the fact that there was no Dutch diplomat on site for 72 hours led to fewer evacuated persons? 9. Why didn't we decide to send additional soldiers until 22 August, almost a week after the fall of Kabul, and why wasn't there an interpreter present at all times when checking documents? 10. How is it possible that three weeks after the end of the evacuation, the cabinet still has no idea of the actual number of applications, despite all the voting in the media? Mr. Chairman. The facts on the table are serious. The Chamber is not well informed. Motions aren't done. Time has been wasted and so human lives have been put at risk. If the cabinet does not convince us otherwise today and if the weather chooses smokescreens and responsibilities, it has a very big problem. For the sake of all those who have remained there in agony, I call on the Cabinet to be genuinely accountable today and to show reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mrs Piri. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. Last night around 10:30 we received the requested documents: a pack of paper of more than 100 pages. That was much later than was agreed. That is already wrong, but it is getting worse, because this morning we received the Volkskrant with crucial information that is not in the documents. "Cabinet ignored emergency calls from Kabul Embassy": the newspaper has documents showing that last March was already asked for help. In July France offered to take people with him; Minister Kaag was not informed. Help calls weren't picked up and the information wasn't reported to us. Twice wrong. What does the government itself think? Do you acknowledge that the Chamber has been misinformed? Do you acknowledge that the government has taken action far too late? Give me a clear answer to these questions. You have to come up with a damn good story if you want to regain our trust. Mr. Chairman. There's another terrifying story from the Volkskrant. Listen and shudder. On 21 April last, members of the staff of the embassy heard that there is no concrete plan for evacuation. At the end of their term of office, they shall address themselves to the Ministry. It's not until 11 August that we get permission to evacuate, but only the nuclear family can come with us. Only 3 of the 60 family members are allowed to come. The embassy can choose who it becomes. What kind of diabolical method is this? How do you do it? Ambassador Wijgers refuses: "Our colleagues will not leave their loved ones." What a hero this is! May she perhaps receive the Nobel Prize, I ask Minister Kaag. The Minister wanted to hand it over to the person who saw this tragedy arrive in Afghanistan during the debate in August, remember? Well, Mrs Kaag, it was your own ambassador who saw it coming. Your ambassador who was allowed to pick three out of 60 people. Shameless it is. Meanwhile, there are still people who need to be evacuated. The government doesn't know exactly how much, because figures are being incredibly magical. You want to find out with the United Nations, with the UNHCR. You will come up with an impact on the number of people, the criteria and the duration. The mailbox will be closed on 17 September. That's the day after tomorrow! How is that possible? Because this completely ignores the Belhaj motion which says that all employees must be brought to safety. What if someone comes forward next Saturday? The mailbox will be closed. Why is that mailbox closing now? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the Netherlands could have done much more if you had acted in good time, but you stopped the boat and did not respond to the signals from the embassy, the STPD, the French and the Chamber. Instead, you pointed at each other and nothing happened. It was the Chamber that forced you into action. You should be ashamed of that. I'd like a reflection. Who is responsible for this clusterfuck 2.0? Be honest and acknowledge that you have failed tremendously. Finally, Mr President. In the end, we must also ask ourselves how we have gotten into this long-term, hopeless war, the so-called 'war on terror', which has mainly led to more terrorism. Minister Bijleveld said: we have shown that there is another way. That's a hell of a thing to say. It is about a war with more than 100,000 deaths and millions of refugees, but she says very nicely: we have shown that we can do otherwise. How cynical can it get? Thorough investigation into this war is needed, in line with my April motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr. Chairman. The last few weeks have been for me, and I know that this also applies to many of my colleagues in the Chamber, an emotional roller coaster. As far as I know, Parliament has never been so united in the foreground, and much in the background, to save the mission's helpers and those at risk. Our joint motion called on the government to get people out of Kabul as soon as possible. I pay tribute to the broad crisis team and to all those who have worked, including outside ministries, for the evacuation from Kabul. Deep, deep respect. The fact that I was allowed to look two women's rights activists in the eye this morning and to speak was so beautiful. The realization that human lives have been saved is indescribable. I read in the cabinet's letter that the motion is in progress. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it has not been fully implemented. The choice to use UNHCR and IOM assistance is therefore a good one, because I understand that it is complex to do so now from the ministries. But perhaps an oral explanation can be given as to what the stakes will be, including the letter on how to proceed with the implementation of the motion and the fact that these people have been identified as a risk group and are ultimately entitled to asylum in the Netherlands. I do have a lot of questions, however, about the interpretation arrangements, the evacuation, the situation now and the evaluation. I'll start with the interpreters. 371 interpreters and other persons employed by international military missions or police missions, including their family members, were brought to the Netherlands. According to the Secretary of Defense, there are 22 interpreters left in Afghanistan. Is this number correct? More importantly, are there any interpreters in Afghanistan who had already signed up in June or earlier because they wanted to leave? I asked this question in the actual round of questions, but it has not been answered. It's about question 56. Why did you not carry out the Piri motion and choose to put the interpreters we already had in our sights on commercial flights in July and August, after the departure of the Dutch military? Mr. Chairman. Then there is something that needs to be clarified at least today: the interpretation system has been in place since 2019 and whether or not the August evacuation has gone well, that needs to be properly examined................................................................................................................................................ Then, on 2 June, following the Piri motion, this task was formulated very precisely and the Minister of Defence had a lot longer time for this group to bring them to safety. Mr. Chairman. Then the evacuation. I read in the reply that the Foreign Office has always been scaled up if necessary. How many times has it been scaled up? In view of the limited time available, I would like to add my voice to the questions put by Mrs Piri and Mr Van Dijk concerning the Volkskrant article and additional documents that have been delivered today. Mr. Chairman. Then about the lessons to be learned. There will be three evaluations, including an independent evacuation investigation. After this I really hope to have the whole picture, because I find drawing partial conclusions based on some of the facts complicated. That's what I always thought. That's what I found on Hawija. I found it at the LIMC. Those are investigations that are still under way. So I also value it today to get as many answers as possible to the question: what is the Cabinet going to do now for the people who are still there and how is it going to ensure that those who cannot leave can still go to the Netherlands for that asylum and for a safe life, so that we can look into the eyes of more people who are safe in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a question for the Prime Minister. I take it from the facts that he signed on August 10th. He called heads of government and the ambassador on the scene. He was also associated with the high level of official consultation. So he was absolutely involved, which I think is also good in such a crisis situation. My question as a parliamentarians but also as a Dutchman is: where was the Prime Minister for the Dutch who, from the beginning of August, was stuck in Kabul to use his own words in fear of death? Why didn't he choose to hold a press conference like many other world leaders did? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First of all, Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u12	I share what Mrs Belhaj said: it is truly unique how we, as a Chamber, have expressed our concerns for months and have expressed them to the cabinet when it comes to the interpreters. We also know that more than a year ago the embassy staff, the ambassador, several staff members, expressed their concerns about their security in Kabul. In the meantime, we also know that it was only two days before the fall of Kabul that the government took a decision on this matter. What is Mrs Belhaj's assessment of the need to ensure that human lives have been unnecessarily endangered by the negligence of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u13	That's a good question and a fair one, so I'll start from the beginning. The Netherlands is one of the few countries that have no arrangement when they go on mission and hire people. That is what I thought, and I think, is a ridiculous situation, which has led us to this situation. Because if we had just said decently "you get a contract," and it goes wrong, then it's easy to say: these people are coming to the Netherlands. Because, as you know, Mrs Piri, the Netherlands has occasionally become so anxious for refugees, there have been such absurd images thrown into this country about how scary it is and how dangerous all these people are not, that we were not even able for people who helped us, for people who fought for freedom in Afghanistan, to give a certain situation, so also the guarantee to be here in the Netherlands. So I know the cabinet didn't act. That is why, as a Chamber, we then took that decision. And that was obviously necessary, a political mandate, to finally move to action. And so I see the situation you are describing, and why it was particularly important that we did it in the end, because otherwise hundreds of people would still be stuck there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u14	Of course I agree with Mrs Belhaj when it comes to interpreters and defence personnel. That is what the debates have been about. But what we now know is that there were distress calls from people who sometimes worked for the Netherlands for twenty years, in the service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as local staff in Kabul. And my question is actually quite simple: do you think that the negligence of the cabinet has put people's lives at risk? And I think you can answer that yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u15	I don't know. You asked that question, and I agree with the questions you asked. I believe that the cabinet should also answer those questions, and then I will be able to answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u16	First Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP, then Mrs Bromet, then Mr De Roon and then Mr Kuzu. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. It wasn't Mrs Belhaj's fault. She has made a huge effort to make a good arrangement, and that deserves a great deal of respect. I would like to have a reaction from her to the latest revelation, not the first, but the latest revelation of the Volkskrant this morning, which shows once again how much the cabinet has failed and what time it has only woken up. Do you share the view that the government's policy is not worthy of approval?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u18	Yes, I agree with Mr Van Dijk, and that is why I was just beginning to explain that from D66 we never agreed that the Netherlands has the arrangement of "we do nothing, we'll see how it goes." So of course I'm not happy about that, and of course I'm sorry that we didn't do that twenty years ago, or at least five years ago. I remember that I was very happy that it was possible at all to make Chamberwide or a separate arrangement for the interpreters. Maybe I should have gone through with it right then and thought, if there is support in the Chamber now, why not do it for all those other people? Of course I've been wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u19	That is a very clear answer, and that graces Mrs Belhaj. So the policy wasn't right. My next question is that your motion may now be implemented differently by the government. In the letter you can see that the government intends to discuss time schedule, persons, criteria with the United Nations. This means that the motion is likely to be narrowed and that not all employees can be saved, can be evacuated. The mailbox will be closed. Do you agree with me that this is not in accordance with your motion, that it does not properly implement your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u20	In the motion we say: evacuate, and if that is not possible, make sure that the procedure of granting asylum can be implemented. As I understand it now, it's not possible to massively evacuate all those people, especially the people who are Afghan. So what I hope is that that will be possible, because that motion, it will just stand. We have classified these people as chambers as risk groups. And, of course, it will be necessary to find out how that will have to be demonstrated. We also heard Mr Kuzu there this morning about how complex it is at times, how people have thrown away all their documents. People have deleted their Facebook profile, which could often serve as evidence to prove that you have indeed helped the Netherlands. I think, partly after the debate I had with the Secretary of State for JenV, that there can and will be no misunderstanding about that. The second, on UNHCR and IOM: we did not, of course, choose in that motion to tell them how to do it. Some people even say: you have gone extremely far by coming up with a policy change and then again saying what to do. I think this could be an interesting solution. I have confidence in an organisation of the UN that has experience with this and in the IOM. Let us now hope that it will succeed, otherwise I fear that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or J and V, or anyone else, perhaps General Affairs, will have to set up something new to accompany that well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u21	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u22	Very briefly, indeed, about that mailbox, because I find that really remarkable. The mailbox will be closed on Friday. Suppose, on Saturday, someone who is indeed eligible for evacuation and assistance from the Dutch government will miss the boat, because the mailbox will be closed on Friday. Other countries don't either. Don't you think that's a crazy decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u23	Yes, "crazy" is indeed the right word. I thought, "How are you gonna do that?" At that time I thought it would not be possible to evacuate people anyway, but there will have to be opportunities over land later. So when people arrive in neighbouring countries, I sincerely hope that the cabinet will say: yes, we are going to open a separate window there, and just not with Mr Boswijk's action to come up with something orange so that these people can still be brought to the Netherlands. You don't call that evacuation, because evacuation is an emergency. These people are just entitled to asylum. So in that respect, at the bottom of the line, I think people are scared. I also think that people are going to sign up massively; do so in particular. But if that is not possible, then the only difference is that you can still come to the Netherlands by another route.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u24	The previous debate we had on this subject, I looked with admiration at Mrs Belhaj and at the motion she tabled and which was adopted by the majority of the Chamber. It was about saving everyone who actually helped the Dutch. But we have had debates on the interpreters before; that is something that has been going on for a long time. We now hear that there are still 22 interpreters left behind in Afghanistan, despite all the efforts of the Chamber. Because of course the Chamber can want a lot and take a lot of motions, but if we have a cabinet that just doesn't act in the opinion of the Chamber, then it's not going to do us any good. How does Mrs. Belhaj look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u25	I was just trying to say something about that delicately. I asked this question: are there any people who were known in June, who wanted to leave themselves and who are still stuck in Afghanistan? That question, Question 56, has not been answered; it has been answered to another part. That question needs to be answered today. Actually, it's very simple with me. Things can go wrong, mistakes can be made. But for me, it's always important to make sure that when that happens, that you're honest and open about it. Then we can conclude that we find it ugly, that we are not okay with it and that we are making different political judgments about it. I hope today that the Minister of Defence, also in response to her public statements, 'no, there are only 30 left'. It's not that hard to see who's signed up and who's not here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u26	I understand that Mrs Belhaj is asking the cabinet, but I ask her what she thinks about the fact that after all these discussions and all those motions that have been adopted 22 interpreters are still in a dangerous situation, which are left behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u27	Ah, that's what you mean. For me, it is very important: are these 22 who reported themselves in August, just as horrible, or are these the 22 who were known in June? Because then Mrs Piri and we all said: do everything we can for those interpreters. But as long as that question hasn't been answered, I don't know if that's true. Do you understand what I'm trying to say? I would have liked to have answered that question, my question 56. So I hope that's gonna happen later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you. Mr De Roon of the PVV and then Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mrs Belhaj complains about the chaos that has arisen in the evacuations, but D66 herself is guilty of that evacuation chaos, namely by tabling a motion that sounds like the Dutch version of "wir schroken das." A motion that greatly increased the number of persons to be evacuated. So my question is: is D66 going to put his hand in his own bosom?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u30	What D66 is going to do, in the person of me here, is to explain to you that I am incredibly proud that I finally managed to say in the Dutch Parliament: we are going to bring these people, who are fighting for freedom, who are fighting for democracy, who are fighting for women's activism and who have actively helped the Netherlands, to the Netherlands. We're grateful to these people. These are the people we need to welcome with open arms, who we need to land well here, who we need to integrate well and who we need to get on with building their lives here. That's what I think. I do not agree with the theories of the PVV. In fact, you could say: throughout the PVV rhetoric people have created the image that it is very scary in recent years. That's total bullshit. You only have to look at the CBS figures to see how many migrants actually come to the Netherlands at the bottom of the line. You can see how many people are going back. You can see how many vacancies there are in the Netherlands. We currently have more vacancies in the Netherlands than people who are not working. Who are you going to take care of in the nursing home? I sincerely hope that it is one of the people in the Netherlands, and perhaps even one of those Afghan people who have come to the Netherlands. I hope for your sake, that she or he is willing to take care of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u31	That was a very long story, but no answer to my question. So you're not gonna put your hand in your own bosom. Then I have a follow-up question, namely: did you consult with your group chairman before you tabled that motion on whether that motion would be reasonably feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u32	I have received support for this from my group. I often get the question you ask: shouldn't you have done better as a parliament to see how you should have done it? We had two days. The choice was to make something on the basis of which a lot of people, who would otherwise be dead or in danger, would be brought to the Netherlands. I've made that assessment. I prefer to table such a motion which is clear, without knowing exactly how it is implemented. That's not something you want to do by default, but it's a choice between life and death. That's why I don't regret it and that's why I don't think I need to put my hand in my own bosom or anything like that. We should be proud to have done this as the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u33	Thank you. Finally, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u34	Finally. I think that Mrs Belhaj would have done better to make an assessment with her group chairman, also being the Foreign Minister: is this reasonably feasible in a decent way, without creating chaos, or should we come up with something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u35	You have already responded, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u36	I would like to begin by thanking and praiseing Mrs Belhaj. When no one in the Chamber had the situation of the Afghan interpreters on sight, Mrs Belhaj did. This is also apparent from the motions that she submitted in November 2016 and in 2019 and 2021. Mrs Bromet already asked the question about the 22 interpreters left behind with their families. I am trying to understand the difference between the interpreters who signed up in June and the interpreters who did it in August. At the beginning of June, we had a committee debate with the Minister of Defence, in which we had again expressed the concerns we have expressed today and which we have expressed on several occasions. So I'm curious about that difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u37	It remains horrible at the bottom of the line. If people are in danger now or can't leave, it's serious. I'll make the difference on the next one. In June we said: you must do more, in addition to the interpretation arrangements as they were. You need to evacuate these people, and you need to find out. We have called all kinds of ideas into the Chamber, such as giving papers so they can leave. Suppose after that debate someone had already reported with "I'm an interpreter, I want to go to the Netherlands." If the person concerned could not come to the Netherlands in August, then something goes wrong, because we have said: focus on that group and make sure that they can come here. I'm trying to find ways to explain it even more clearly. Mr Van Dijk understands, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u38	Now to Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u39	I'm trying very hard to understand. The motions tabled by Ms Belhaj in 2016 state that "the government is requesting policy to establish that interpreters who have worked for the Dutch mission in Afghanistan are considered to have a legitimate fear of persecution' and that "the government also requests that the same level of protection be provided to interpreters of current and future missions'. The distinction that is thus made in June and August I actually read in the 2016 motions. I'm really curious about that explicit difference. That's try one. There is another point in which I am really curious about Mrs Belhaj's appreciation. We have local, Afghan staff at the Dutch embassy and then we have an assignment or permission from the cabinet, saying: three out of 60 we can get to the Netherlands. How does Mrs Belhaj feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u40	I hate that. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u41	The first part of the question was also there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u42	Yes, you're talking about a motion from 2016. I'm talking about 2019 all the time. Maybe I can ask you to just show it to me. I could bluff around here, but I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u43	Shall I hand over the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u44	I think that's very excited. I think just give me a little time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u45	You can do that through the messenger, Mr. Kuzu. Through the messenger, the motion may end up with Mrs. Belhaj. And if you would like to take a closer look at that, there may also be a second deadline. Let me take a look at you, Mrs. Belhaj. Would you like to respond immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u46	Ah, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u47	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u48	That motion from 2016. Gee, that's good; I almost forgot that one. If this had happened, we wouldn't have the problem we have. But I don't think that motion made it. Look, otherwise I can say: listen, cabinet, this was the policy and this was the wish of the Chamber already in 2016. But unfortunately, that motion didn't make it. Maybe we can figure out why my motion didn't make it. Because if we had done this, we wouldn't have ended up in this. Mr President, I see that I have six seconds left, which I do not need.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u49	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. Oh, there's another question from Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u50	I thought we would have more talk from Mrs Belhaj, but if it is not, I would like to ask her the following question. How does Mrs Belhaj judge the apathetic attitude and apathy of the Minister for Foreign Affairs? That was offered by France to evacuate people at an early stage in a French-organized plane and that offer was simply put aside. On the day the Taliban invaded Kabul, the minister went to dinner with a number of political parties instead of taking action. So I would say: not the rapid advance of the Taliban, but Minister Kaag is the problem. I'd like a reflection from you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u51	I was gonna say, the PVV always does. But that would be lame. I have joined Mr Van Dijk's and Mrs Piri's questions on the Volkskrant article, so that we can respond to why this choice has been made. But I have also read in one of those letters that other European countries have deliberately chosen not to do so and to be present for a long time. That means that a conscious choice has been made. The French said, "Get everybody out of here as quickly as possible," because we don't trust it. Other countries, including the Netherlands, said: no, we actually want to stay as long as possible to do things from that position. That's what I read. But I do think it is important for the cabinet itself to explain why that choice was made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u52	Finally, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u53	If you were to tell me that passage about those other EU countries, I would say this, and I am saying this now: 'This means that the Netherlands has left its ears hanging on what the majority in the EU found, rather than listening to a country that had much more insight into all sorts of things and was wise enough to evacuate early on'. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u54	Yeah, unless it's a conscious choice. But I don't know if it was a conscious choice. I have read that, but that is why that answer is important. If that's something of "yes, we actually just didn't make a choice"... I can speculate, but the question is correct. I have the same question, and I would like to have answered it. Why is that done? Why did they "don't" it? You call it "ignoring," but maybe it was another choice. I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u55	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For 20 years, we have waged war against an enemy who now holds the strings more firmly than ever. That is because the great powers, the United States, China and Russia, are playing dirty geopolitical games over the back of Afghanistan. The result is that the Afghans have lost again. I wonder: was it worth the Afghans to go to war in Afghanistan for twenty years? Was it worth fighting for the interests of the Americans for the 30,000 Dutch soldiers who had been stationed there for the past twenty years? Was it a quarter of a million people who had to die, including 26 of our boys and girls, worth their lives? During this war, 5.5 million people fled. What has it been worth to us and to them that they have been displaced? Is this the result of a war in which parents panicked and despaired to give their babies over barbed wire to unknown soldiers? Wasn't it meant to make sure millions of girls and women could go back to school? Mr. Chairman. We let these people down. We let the Afghans down. We should be deeply, deeply ashamed, but also deeply ashamed. The least, but the least, we should do is evacuate the people who helped us. But we also failed to do so. Minister Kaag stated at the time that she was not aware of the French' offer to help evacuate, while begging from the embassy. What's going on here? Why could France fly hundreds of Afghans to Paris and the Netherlands before the fall of Kabul? Why do aircraft with evacuations land in Paris and Birmingham, while Minister Kaag constantly claimed in the Chamber that it could not have foreseen this situation? Why didn't she foresee the situation, when the cabinet had been warned of it several times? Why did the cabinet choose to wait so long after Trump's agreement with the Taliban on February 29, 2020? Why did the cabinet choose to wait so long, while STUDY experts indicated in January 2021 that the situation in Afghanistan would deteriorate and that takeover by the Taliban was likely? Mr. Chairman. Colleagues in the Chamber then talk about asylum flows and about reception in the region. Iran is already catching 3 million refugees. And Minister Kaag can't even manage to get more than three applications from the Kabul Embassy through to Rutte! That's promising for the formation talks. When a motion by Mr Belhaj is adopted, according to NRC, Minister Bijleveld says to colleague Boswijk of the CDA: do you know what this means? Minister Kaag warns the same colleague Boswijk during the suspension of the sitting on a motion tabled by her D66 group: the Afghan group would be far too large. It shouldn't be any crazier. I'd say stop playing these political games. Since 2016, the Chamber has been submitting proposals on Afghan interpreters. That deserves praise for Mrs Belhaj. However, there are still 22 families trapped there. I ask Minister Bijleveld why don't you take the Chamber seriously? I say to Minister Kaag: if only you would have rustled and arranged to bring more Afghans to safety. I wish you'd trusted a few more people than just your husband and kids. I'd say take responsibility for once. This is about people's lives. This is about people counting on us. These are people we shouldn't let down. These are people to whom we have a duty of honor. Afghanistan is currently an unsafe country for many Afghans. I wonder if I can ask Mrs Broekers-Knol when that message of office will finally come to Afghanistan. It is now time to show what we as the Netherlands stand for: humanity or heartlessness. At least we stand for humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u57	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u58	Mr President, allow me to welcome Mr Omtzig back to our midst. I also like having seen Mrs Van Toorenburg, who has also been sitting in your chair on a regular basis, here today. Kabul's fall was the fall of freedom. As Minister Kaag said in the Knight's Room, it is precisely in war situations that we fit in with some modesty. The Chamber rightly asked 493 questions about what went well and what did not go well in Afghanistan. But let us as a Chamber also try to consider the security risk that our diplomats and soldiers have run there. Let's say that the IS attack, which killed more than 180 people, occurred an hour earlier. Then probably Dutch and Dutch soldiers and diplomats had died. We in the Chamber would probably have asked why so long and so high a risk has continued to evacuate. I just want to say that our image of reality is partly determined by chance. That also says something about the reliability of our image. First of all, the evacuations. The fact is that some of the evacuations have been successful and some of them have failed. Apart from an independent investigation, I would like to ask the Cabinet to set its own course of action along the standard of comparison. Can the cabinet undertake to make the comparison with other countries in this respect? Now that the operation has ended, the question is how the remaining interpreters are doing. Then there is the Belhaj c.s. motion. I understand and appreciate the concerns and feelings expressed by the authors of the motion. However, there are now thousands of applications, sometimes involving large groups, and the number is still increasing on a daily basis. Those notifications also cloud the view of the people who are really in acute and poignant situations as a result of their commitment to the Netherlands. All these people are now hoping for an answer, because they think they are covered by the motion. How's the cabinet gonna fix this? That people want to leave Afghanistan, I understand. But for them, care in the region must be the starting point. Then at some point people can also hopefully return to their own home and fireplace. The cabinet writes that it wants to explore cooperation with UNHCR and/or the IOM. The VVD is sceptical about that. Involvement of the Chamber is crucial in terms of the VVD. That is why I ask the Cabinet not to make any decision or to prepare it without the explicit involvement and prior consent of the House of Representatives. Parliament must not be sidelined here. It is clear from the facts that the cabinet has taken over the evacuation of the military interpreters too administratively and therefore too slow and too little militaryly. This raises the question of who was actually in charge of the interpreting operation in the Defense Department. Were they civil servants or military? Putting an interpreter form on a website, dropping a legalized translation requirement, it all took forever, while it is not higher mathematics. How can there still be dozens of military interpreters in Kabul? What part of it reported itself late and what part of it was Defense too slow? I agree with Mrs Belhaj on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u59	There was another interruption by Mrs Belhaj on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u60	I doubt whether I will ask the question now, because I think there is simply a majority in the Chamber and the VVD has decided not to agree. So a certain choice has been made. But you indicate that cooperation with IOM and UNHCR is not good, or that you doubt it. I was actually wondering what the solution would be. I understand that the IND says all the time: we just have too few people. This has been a problem for years, so if more money can go to the IND, people will get out of the procedure sooner and they will be able to integrate. But that's something else. At the State Department, diplomats work. They usually do different jobs, unless in a crisis situation like this. But what's the solution to how you deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u61	I hear first of all that Mrs Belhaj, as I read in the General Journal, is trying to push the problem to the IND. I think providing consular assistance is something that's in the Foreign Office. That's first of all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u62	Mrs Belhaj, on a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u63	I honestly don't care who does it. I just want it to be someone from a ministry who can do it. I get signals all the time that it can't; that's what it's about. If Mrs Ankie Broekers-Knol can't do it, I'm not going to tell her to do it. And if Mrs Kaag says she can't do it, then I'm not going to say you should. After all, the officials have to do the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u64	Thank you for the clarification given by Mrs Belhaj. She puts her finger very well on the sore spot, because the question is indeed whether it is possible. I understand perfectly well that a motion under pressure comes about and I also understand the feelings behind it. But no one has been held to the impossible, not even the Foreign Minister. What we have seen here is that it is in the motion, and again, I understand very well the feelings behind the motion, so I don't want to be annoying about that either, at least about a whole category of people: drivers and so on. I understand a lot of people fall over that, too. Thousands or tens of thousands of e-mails have been sent. I also get those e-mails forwarded and some of them relate to up to 170 people. In any case, this is a very large group of people. See if you can make a meaningful selection. I think we are still dealing with the problem that we noted in the debate in the Knight's Room, namely the lack of demarcation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u65	I understand what Mr Van Wijngaarden says about that, but I think that is indeed a clever way. We don't know how many people we're talking about. I read in the newspaper that you, as you adorned, also actively had people sent to the State Department, while the VVD was not in favour of that motion. It's complex when you're confronted with someone asking: please, Mr. Van Wijngaarden, do you want to do something towards the State Department? You know how hard it is. Why don't we give the Cabinet time to find out carefully? And so no panic reactions like: there are hundreds of thousands. But just let it figure out quietly and then step by step see how we can deal with it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u66	I think panic reactions are never good. The difference is, of course, and that was also stated in the NRC Handelsblad, that I indicated that it is very important that, in an individual case, we always look at whether there really is an acute and distressing situation as a result of the work for the Netherlands. If you notice categoral whole groups and talk about at least all the drivers and chefs, I say, and that's not to be cynical: not everyone who once bricked two stones together is immediately a target for the Taliban. I understand a lot of people want to leave Afghanistan. Let us be clear: if we were sitting there, we would want to get out of there as well. But that's no reason to bring all these people here. The starting point for the VVD is reception in the region. The priority must now be with the Dutch who are still there. There are still Dutch citizens there. We still have the remaining group of interpreters. I want to know from the cabinet, so to speak, interpreter for interpreter, how they're still sitting there. As a chamber, we're entitled to a statement. The cabinet has an obligation to see what happens. That's how we're in it. And let us also be realistic: the whole tragedy of Afghanistan has of course also been that we have not been realistic about that mission at all. If this is the result of more than 1,000 billion, 50 different countries and 20 years of time, then it also forces realism about what we can achieve with building missions. The same realism is also needed in what we can now achieve with the evacuations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u67	First Mr Kuzu, then Mr Ceder, then Mrs Teunissen and then Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr. Chairman. That is a very formal, legal and political answer. I've been doing some reference work for a while. In 2006, Mr Kamminga's predecessor, Mr Van Wijngaarden, had three points in the discussion of the Article 100 letter. One was defeating the Taliban: it did not succeed. Protecting the Afghan people: we are getting more and more reports about people who feel unprotected and fear for their lives. And restoring the Afghan state. I am really wondering, and that is a question of conscience, and what we could do more than just send out e-mails to Foreign Affairs, as Mr Van Wijngaarden did, and call for shelter in our own region, while we also know that there are 3 million people in Iraq and Iran and that there are more than 1 million people in Pakistan. What could we do more about the VVD because we failed in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u69	I think we should always be realistic and not constantly think as a Chamber that we can solve all world problems by doing more or finding more. I think that is part of Afghanistan's lesson.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u70	I do not think that we should have done so, and I am not speaking personally to Mr Van Wijngaarden, but the VVD could have thought of it twenty years ago, when we were dragging ourselves into a wretched war, which we now see what the result is. I have already argued in my own contribution that we have a duty of honour in this respect. All three objectives advocated by the VVD were not achieved. We missed the battle there fatally. And then say "realism" and "we don't know what we can do"! I think that's a little weak. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u71	Well, Mr Kuzu may think so, but I think he is making a completely careless caricature of what we have always said about it. I would just like to quote Han ten Broeke, who has said on a regular basis: it is Al-Qaeda out and the Taliban underneath. The first one worked. We have now seen how incredibly difficult that second is and how intertwined those Talibans are in that country. But I don't think it's right to do the work of our military and the sacrifices that have been made to serve up that whole mission right now. I am just saying that it is important that we, as a Chamber, also try to ask ourselves whether we are realistic enough about what you can achieve with a long-term construction mission. That's something else. That's a lot more nuanced than serving up that whole mission. And yes, it was said twenty years ago by X, Y or Z a, b or c: all at your service.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u72	I heard Mr Van Wijngaarden say a number of things. I'm gonna need some clarity. On the one hand, he says: that motion is not enforceable. That is a technical aspect: it is very difficult because evacuation is not possible now. On the other hand, he says: it's a lot of people. That is actually a political reason: we simply do not want these people here. One can be solved. I tabled a motion during the last debate to evacuate from third countries, as other countries do, if evacuation is not possible in Afghanistan. You can pick up people from Pakistan, Islamabad and other countries and cities who are subject to the motion. So I don't see the technical. I would like to ask him whether he sees that as well and whether there should be a commitment on the motion, which has been adopted by this Chamber, to evacuate people, when they reach a neighbouring country, to the Netherlands, if they are subject to the motion. Or does the VVD say: actually it's not a technical reason, we don't really want these people or as little as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u74	I'd like to hear the position of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u75	I understand the question very well. For me, the starting point is "no, unless." The starting point is reception in the region. There may be an acute and poignant situation in particular incidental cases, which is really related to and caused by the role played by someone there. For example, we saw that at the head of the guards, the head of security. Then there's a clear case that because of that position for the Netherlands, he had hundreds of people among himself as a target for the Taliban. We have always said: then you must carefully, on an individual basis, see how you can help such a person. But for a lot of other people, they just want to get out of there. I also understand that they would prefer to go to the Netherlands rather than Tajikistan or to another country. But what matters is that we have to be realistic and honest here again. We can have very nice intentions here from this room, but the question is... I understand those intentions too. It's a human tendency to want to help someone else. I'll come to the feasibility. The first point is therefore the desirability, which I have just addressed. Then I'll get to the feasibility. We must realise that the reception centres are already overcrowded with status holders, that emergency locations are being opened and that the Defense Department needs to step in. If you brought all those people under that motion here one-on-one...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u77	...we'll be busy for a while. Then we can, so to speak, reserve the Kaagbaan at Schiphol Airport for that. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u78	I'd like to ask you to answer something a little more compact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u80	It is okay to hear from the VVD that they do not think it would be desirable for the people who helped the Dutch mission to come to the Netherlands in all cases, because it would be crowded and would cause an unpleasant situation. But, of course, millions of people are already being taken care of in the region. So you do not want to carry the same capacity you require from other countries. How many people are allowed to come according to the VVD? What do you think of the fact that more than a million people are already being taken care of in the region? Do you not think that the Netherlands has some responsibility for the people who have helped the Netherlands for almost twenty years? If so, how many people is that according to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u81	Firstly, Mr Ceder must not distort my words. I'm sorry to hear that. Secondly, I am not going to sit in this debate pimpampets about numbers. I have made it very clear where we stand. He says: there are a lot of people being taken care of in the region. So that's a good proof of that. People are therefore closer to their own environment and closer to their own culture. I think that's in the interests of people themselves, too. You can look at that differently. That is how Mr Ceder and I look at it differently, but I outline to him how we look at it. I also say that there is always talk with the VVD about emergency aid and development aid for reception in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u82	Finally, very briefly, Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u83	I have one last question, because the story of the VVD is just not consistent. It is first indicated that a security guard who is in acute danger may come. It is now stated that we want as few people as possible, including the security guard. Or you say 'people who are in demonstrably danger may come', but then we come back into the atmosphere of the Belhaj motion. So, according to the VVD, who is allowed to be evacuated and who is not? It can also be no one or there can be some, but I would like to hear the position of the VVD clearly. After all, you are the biggest party. It is important that the country knows where you stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u84	This is exactly the problem. Here a kind of simplification is made of a problem that you have to look at on a case-by-case basis. As a Chamber, you cannot say with a few strokes of pens: those groups do and those groups do not. That is exactly why there are now tens of thousands of e-mails in that mailbox at the Foreign Office, where, as we have just read, hundreds more are added every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u86	So you have to look at it on a case-by-case basis. That's the honest answer. That may not be the answer Mr Ceder wants to hear, but he will have to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u87	First Mrs Teunissen, then Mrs Piri, then Mrs Bromet and finally Mr Van Dijk. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u88	So this is the problem. I just heard the VVD suggest that among all the groups mentioned in the Belhaj motion there might be groups that would not be directly at risk. Does the VVD not think it wrong that the cabinet did not draw up a clear evacuation plan in advance, in which it became clear which groups are directly at risk? Does he agree with me that it is very bad that we still do not know that at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u89	I think this is a very important question. I also think that this is a touch on Minister Kaag's point at some point: anyone who saw this coming deserves the Nobel Prize. She's been told all sorts of things about that. I also think that we really need to look at how the French have dealt with this. They were the only ones who saw that coming early. I think it is really important in this respect that the cabinet itself should say which countries have dealt with it at the bottom more effectively and better than we have. As far as I am concerned, this is also a rational approach. I also asked the cabinet to answer this question precisely: have we done well in planning and implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u90	I would also very much like to know what the VVD itself thinks about that. We have seen enough in the documents that the evacuation plan and the answer to the question of who really should and should not be evacuated until the last moment were unclear. I would very much like to know from the VVD how it assesses that until now it is unclear who is and is not in immediate danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u91	I also think that it is important for this reason that the cabinet has said that it will come up with a large independent investigation. I think this is something that we in the Chamber would otherwise be asking for, because this is, of course, exactly the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u92	That is indeed a very big question. My party is of the opinion that this has certainly been negligence on the part of the cabinet. But another point is that I just heard you say: 'I don't know if we should all bring these groups to the Netherlands'. Does the VVD at least recognise that we, the Netherlands, have a moral duty to employ people who have worked for us for many years, even if it is not the interpreters or embassy workers but drivers and security officers, who are directly at risk because they have served the Dutch military for twenty years? Do you agree with me, with the Animal Party, that we should at least acknowledge that we have a moral duty to help these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u93	What the Party for Animals does is, on the basis of a moral premise, make a kind of big statement here and say that we should get everyone who has worked for the Netherlands in any form whatsoever. That's just way too short for me. If all 50 countries that have ever been in Afghanistan would do that to all the people who once did something for them, I think there is almost no Afghan left. I told you to judge that on a case-by-case basis. So that's different from just saying "categoral": the whole group and the whole group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u94	First of all, I was pleased to hear from Mr Van Wijngaarden that at least he agreed that it might be logical to send security guards who watched over our soldiers at Camp Holland at night, not to Tajikistan but simply to offer asylum to our former workers here. And at least we agree on one thing, namely the interpreters. Over the last few months we have really worked together in this respect, including the VVD with the Labour Party. I just heard you say in your speech that that was slow. My question is simple: is precious time wasted?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u95	I think that also depends on the answer to the question of the interpreters who are still there. Are they still there because of the fact that the Netherlands has acted too slowly? Or is part of them there, for example, because of the fact that they didn't want to leave yet? 'Cause we weren't gonna force people either. In general, looking at this whole file, I think I have just indicated that it has gone over for weeks with, for example, the posting of the form on the website. I don't remember who asked that question; I think that came from Mrs Piri herself. As a VVD, we made a point of the official translations, because I also heard from experts that a legalized translation of every interpreter was a demand of Afghanistan. It didn't turn out that way at the time. As a result, these interpreters had to meet an unnecessary requirement for months, which also took them a great deal of time. It then took a great deal of time to drop that demand, even if we had announced it as a Chamber. So I do think that the government's intervention on the interpretation side is really marked by... It may be slow, but I also get the feeling of some kind of bureaucracy: four days later it has to be discussed again in another consultation. I almost think: shouldn't that be a little more militaristic, in the sense of "we're just gonna do it"? I think there was also a very clear mandate, a very clear mandate from the Chamber. So I think we agree on that point. I also think that, in the end, we do not differ so much from other parties here in the Chamber. I understand that everyone's trying to make that difference. The only thing we're saying is that you're going too short when you automatically give categoral whole groups the right to come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u96	I'm glad to hear that the VVD also thinks precious time has been wasted. My follow-up question: is it conceivable, according to Mr Van Wijngaarden, that this has put human lives at risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u97	I think that when you draw that kind of big conclusions about people... "Is it imaginable?" I think that we should really be careful with these big conclusions on human lives. So I'm not just going to answer yes or no. That is why I find that carelessness on our part.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u98	Finally, Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u99	The response we received late last night shows that we do not even know how many interpreters we have left behind in Afghanistan. Earlier, 22 was said. The answer says that there can be many more; they are in the mailbox and they have not yet been looked at. We know that the interpreters are at the top of the Taliban's hit list. Because they are so much at risk, we have a scheme for this since 2019, with the support of the VVD. Until 14 August it was in our hands to bring interpreters here or not. Now their fate lies in the hands of the Taliban. So my question is: do you admit that we have just put people in mortal danger by not acting on time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u100	I think we should now just look at the answers to the questions. You say that we have put those people in mortal danger, and that is what I am referring to. To answer that question, we in the Chamber must first know whether it is because of the slowness of the Netherlands that they are still there. We agree that many of these interpreters are a target of the Taliban. That is why my colleague Mr Bosman, my predecessor on this dossier, has also voted in favour of this motion and his interpreters have been regarded as a systematically persecuted group. That's what you see in all the countries, in all the armed forces: they do, because these interpreters are going into the enemy territory. And that Taliban is over there. There are terrible stories about how the Taliban deal with interpreters. You say we put them in danger. No, of course it's the Taliban who do that anyway. But we would also bear responsibility for this if it were because of the slowness of the Netherlands that they were still there. But isn't it? Nor does Mrs Piri know the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u101	Thank you. There are a number of follow-up questions. Mrs. Bromet first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u102	I'm sorry, we've also discussed the handling of the lists. I would like to say a few words about this very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u103	Yes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u104	Everyone's waiting for an answer now. I think it is also important that something is done about this. Tens of thousands of people who have e-mailed are waiting for an answer. We can differ on what answer that should be. We say you have to test individually; I'm not going to repeat any of that. However, I do think it is important for the Foreign Ministry to come forward with a real improvement plan and action and to ensure that those people receive at least an answer. I hope that Mrs Piri shares that ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thank you. Another request to keep it a bit more compact, because there will still be some interruptions. First of all, Mrs Bromet, then Mr Jasper van Dijk, then Mr Omtzigt and then Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u106	I'm trying to imagine what it's like to listen to the VVD's speech for someone who's been in Afghanistan as a military man and who's been protected there and kept safe by people who lived there and are now in the cold. I ask myself the same question for someone in Afghanistan who was like this and now hears: we cannot save everyone who has stacked two bricks. How does Mr Van Wijngaarden look at that? A majority in this Chamber has said that we are going to help the people who helped the Dutch; that is a debt of honour. The VVD isn't in on that. Does the VVD have such a feeling of "happy, we're getting right; that motion has been adopted, but it can't be carried out, otherwise we'll get too many people in the Netherlands"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u107	There are three groups of people I want to look straight in the eye. Those are the people there who, because of their work for Defence, are in an acute and distressing situation and are in great danger. I think you should test that individually. You don't think so. You're just saying that because of the fact that you did something for that mission, we can transfer you by definition. I'm in a different place. I'm telling you to be careful with that. I think I can sell that to Dutch military. But the third group I want to look straight in the eye is Dutch society itself. I also have to say to them: we must also be careful, including as a Chamber, that we do not allow tens of thousands of people to come here because this can also be socially disruptive and because we cannot handle it as a country. So I have all these things to consider, and so I have all these groups to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u108	I would also like to say a few words about this. Mr Van Wijngaarden says in his speech: a lot of requests have been made. That's about the e-mails that came in to the State Department. We have asked what those e-mails are and whether there are doubles in them. The State Department doesn't know that. How come Mr. Van Wijngaarden already knows that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u109	It is clear that these are very large numbers of e-mails, in the thousands. I get some of those e-mails myself and I also send them to the Foreign Office. For example, there are e-mails that relate to hundreds of people and then all their families join them. Well, an average family in Afghanistan is about five and a half, so I've been told. So it's a thousand people on the basis of an e-mail. Those are also people who once did something for the Dutch mission. I think it's nice that Mrs. Bromet thinks it's all okay. I don't think it's easy at all. The letter and correspondence we have now seen from the cabinet actually show the same picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u110	I'm not saying it's easy. I'm just saying we don't know how many applications we're talking about. We do know how many e-mails have been received, but we do not know how many applications are concerned and we do not know how many family members are involved. However, it is a question of a debt of honour and of the fact that it may also be an obligation for the largest party of the Netherlands to keep the story that we owe that debt rather than come up with all kinds of fears and use another word for mails, in the sense that it would be applications, which in itself undermines all the support in society. I think the VVD has a responsibility for that, too. Of course, it is going to be difficult for the Netherlands when our asylum seekers' centres will be full again. And I also know that there is a lack of housing and that refugees are being looked at when it comes to occupying homes. But you have to do that together as a society, don't you? You have to stand up for the people, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u111	I think it is fair from Mrs Bromet that she also states that you must acknowledge that the refugee centres are currently full. If I have understood the figures correctly, it is 7,500 people who are still sitting there because they can't get a home at all. I also welcome the fact that she recognises that there is a very big problem there. We must also be realistic in this respect about what we can carry as a country. I think you might as well be careful and honest with anyone who, because of his work for the Netherlands, is in real danger there. About these people, I say, you have to look at them. And for the rest, I say: care in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u112	I think this is a wonderful plea from the VVD. On the one hand, Mr Van Wijngaarden says that we must save and help the people who have obviously helped us and who were important to our mission. But on the other hand he says: it should not be too much. I think there's a tension between that, but okay. I would like to know from Mr Van Wijngaarden what he thinks of the performance of the cabinet, with the last revelation in the newspaper, but that was of course not the first. We have heard from the security services, from the embassy, from the chamber, from France and from countless others: cabinet, come into action, get to work. Do you share the view that the cabinet failed to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u113	That is a very long question which has a lot to say and at least a misconception, because I think my words are being distorted. I did not say at all: anyone who has done something for the Netherlands can come here. I said: you have to look very carefully if someone is in an acute and distressing situation because of this work for the Netherlands. So I'm gonna add something to it. Then there is the question: what do you think of the intervention of the cabinet? There is an enormous amount of talk about it, including warnings. I have just said in an interruption that I asked a question about the interpreters. I said: I think that in dealing with these requests, e-mails, claims or whatever you want to call them, there should really be an acceleration at the Foreign Office. I'm also being addressed in my environment by people who are really waiting for an answer. I also have contact with people in Afghanistan. At the very least, I think that people should get an answer quickly, so I think that there should be an important battle there. I think we need to evaluate and see how other countries have dealt with this at the bottom of the line. Because I like the fact story, but it's also a bit "and then, and then, and then," a reconstruction, which we as a Chamber love so much. I would say, as a Chamber, let us take one step back and see how the Norwegians, the French and the British have dealt with this. Then we're gonna challenge the cabinet together to do that. Then we're going to say to the cabinet, "Try to learn lessons from that." Those countries were in a similar situation at the same time, so we have unique comparative evidence. Then the staff, the staff, the State Department. When you talk about a debt of honor, I think you have a very special responsibility to your own staff, just like to your own citizens, even though they are separate responsibilities. We have received the letter from the Secretary-General which says: we need more time. That really is a desperate question of help that has come from its own embassy staff. I think you have already pointed that out. I would like to know from the Minister of Foreign Affairs whether that letter was discussed with her, whether that letter was accepted by her, whether that letter was issued for, for example, a Governing Council or any other consultation she attended, or whether she was informed in advance that that letter was received with that question, and whether she was involved in the reply. Because I think that is an important question that is on the table here during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u114	I have a very long answer to a very specific question. I would nevertheless like to invite you to show a little more courage in clarity. Because we've already had a lot of revelations. We received the last revelation this morning, which says that people from the embassy called for help, but were not heard. It was only two days before the fall of Kabul that the cabinet really took action. For the interpreters, we have worked well together. That's right. But on all these other points, the cabinet did not act on its own. Only after the Chamber took action, the government took action. Do you have the courage not to hide behind an investigation that is going to take months, but to say now: yes, taking stock, can we say at this point that the cabinet has failed in the policy of helping the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u115	I choose my own words. Mr Van Dijk, this morning, I almost heard him say at the crack of dawn that there is a political mortal sin and that we all know what that means. I'm trying to weigh my words carefully. I have very strong comments on the things that I have noticed here, and I do not think I have failed to make them either. I've said some things about the interpreters. I think that this needs to be explained. I have said things about the handling of all the requests that are coming. I have been clear about how we look at the Belhaj motion. I don't think there's a word of Spanish in there. It is perhaps just not the language of action that Mr Van Dijk loves so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u116	I'm afraid I'm not getting a clear answer. That's too bad. I would just like to ask whether Mr Van Wijngaarden agrees with me that the government should have informed us on its own account of the revelations we read in the newspaper this morning and that the cabinet failed to do so. We didn't read in the papers last night, 100 pages, about aid cries from the embassy. Do you share the view that this was incorrect and incomplete?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u117	In my opinion, there have been many exchanges of views with the embassy there. That's what came over. So no, I share that... I also find it a little easy to now... There are 493 questions asked. We have worked very hard during the evacuations, also by the rulers; I just want to say that. That may also be expected of them, but I do not think we should be too quick to underestimate the efforts of the cabinet. I think we are now having a very critical debate, in which everything we want to say and ask for can be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u118	I shall then give the floor to Mr Omtzigt for an interruption. By the way, I've been checking for him to see where the pieces are. All confidential documents are now available at the CIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u119	Mr President, thank you for that. I should like to point out that we asked for a public summary on this point, because as a Member of Parliament, I cannot quote from confidential documents, nor should I speak about it in the Chamber. So if I go and see what's in the plans, I'm obliged not to ask about it, under penalty of exclusion from the Chamber; I know what it feels like to be away for a while, but I didn't mean to. I therefore urge you to ensure that we get that summary here, otherwise we will not be able to do anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u120	You did indeed put that question at the beginning of the debate, as a point of order in response to Mrs Piri's request. We passed that on to the cabinet, so I'm assuming the cabinet will respond to that. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u121	Yes, Mr President, I assume that too, because that will be the core of the input. We had a plan and that plan wasn't followed, it seems, but we don't know the plan and we can't see the plan. So I would like to see a summary of these maps, of the worst case scenario, when that has changed and what the main lines were. Of course, I don't need 06 numbers or precise operational details that could put people at risk. Mr. Chairman. I am somewhat surprised by Mr Van Wijngaarden's speech. It seems that we are planning a school trip here and are looking at who happened to be left in the playground at the end of the school trip. But that's not what happened here. You can't say with dry eyes that we are now going to test individually with people who have been in hiding, who have fled with their families to another place in Afghanistan, whether they might be able to do so, with an IND test, where you get back six questions and answers and have to do authorised and sworn translations? How does Mr Van Wijngaarden intend to deal with people who are dying in Afghanistan right now, who say "I want to be on that list"? Do they have to jump through all the hoops Mr Van Wijngaarden puts here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u122	First of all, Mr Omtzigt refers to a hoop, in which I myself contributed to the fact that that hoop went into the trash: those official certified translations. The VVD has just been in favour of abolishing it, because it turned out to be totally unnecessary to ask people to do so. There was a faster way to help interpreters in that way. That's one. Then two: I said that individual circumstances must be looked at carefully. Yeah, I get that that's hard. I understand that, but it's not impossible. It also happened to the people who were already on evacuation lists. And I also understand that sometimes it has to be pragmatic. But Mr Omtzigt has already mentioned in his brief question two very essential individual circumstances, namely that people are hiding from the Taliban and have fled, so they are on the run. Those are already two important ones. So that's part of an individual test. That is what Mr Omtzigt makes here too. And the whole problem of the Belhaj motion, and I just keep repeating it all the time, is that the motion simply says categoral: anyone who has once been a chef, or once has done something for a mission, is eligible for not only evacuation, but also immediately for asylum here. I'm having trouble with that. And I know Mr Omtzigt very well as a Member of Parliament who attaches great care, so I think that the cabinet, which he is often advocating here, can also act with care in dealing with these requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u123	Before August 15th, a review was very relevant; then you could simply check whether or not someone was allowed on that flight. You're sitting here rigging a bureaucratic monstrum, if you're asking people now to do that whole list. Because what we're doing here is the work we've failed to do over the past year and a half. For what was in those evacuation plans and worst case scenarios, you need to know who needs to leave. The Taliban have taken over the whole country. It's an illusion to think you can prove you're in hiding. Because you and I agree that that might be a condition, but how does that go up and down, right to the IND, when you don't even know if it's really safe for once? "Yes, I'm in hiding at location A," when you don't know if anyone can listen, while the Taliban, with all the biometric data they've already had because of the American leak, can track where you're going? I don't know... I get visions of superparents who are completely lost in a maze for ten years, and nowhere to go. Do you think that in the way you explain now, there could be a balanced assessment of who should have come? Or should that have just been five months ago, as with the French, who in May made those assessments, sent hundreds of people back in May at the same time? That's what we're talking about here today. And we're not talking about the Kaagbaan here, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u124	I think that the question that Mr Omtzigt is putting on the table affects the question of feasibility. It's Prince's Festival today, I think that's what it's called. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate my former colleague Bosman on the prize he has been able to share with his former colleague Chris van Dam. On the contrary, Mr Bosman has done research into the feasibility of the wishes we have here as a Chamber. And I think we are also dealing with a question of feasibility here. That is what Mr Omtzigt himself points out, but his conclusion is another. He says: yes, it is difficult to assess individually for harrowingness and whether there is an acute danger of life, so the conclusion is "then just identify everyone as categoral." I don't draw that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u125	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u126	That is a distortion of my words, and Mr Van Wijngaarden knows it. Okay, if that's not the point, here's the thing. In March last year, for example, the group of embassy staff joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Then I'll look at the Secretary of State. They come and say, "What has been arranged for us?" At such a time you can make a good balance, you can book tickets quietly, you can let people come over and ask for a second opinion: is it wise to have this group come or not come? You make a decision two months later and of course there's someone who doesn't agree, I always do. But not making that decision was about the stupidest decision that could be made. And that's what we're talking about today, not that we still disagree about a group, whether someone put two stones together. That's completely irrelevant. Relevantly, that should have been done a year ago. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u127	Look, those two stones, that might be lame. I do not agree with what is being said now, that this would not be relevant, because that is precisely the problem of the motion and its feasibility. That's why you see that now really big groups are trying to fall underneath. So to say that is not relevant, I think that is exactly the implementation question that the cabinet itself is now struggling with. I agree with Mr Omtzigt when he says that no decision is also a decision, do nothing. Just now looking back... That's why I really think we should challenge the cabinet to look at the end point and the end result, whatever the French had: how did they manage to evacuate their own staff? How did they do that and why? What lessons does the cabinet draw from this? I think that's where we find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u128	Mr De Roon, PVV, and then Mr Dassen, van Volt. That was the order, excuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u129	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u130	No? You're right, I see. It is Mr Dassen first, yes, I wrote it down correctly but wrongly. Mr. Dassen, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u131	Then I can also go on with what Mr Omtzigt just said, because it is indeed from 2020 that the signals from Afghanistan and from the embassy became ever clearer, including from local staff. I hear Mr Van Wijngaarden here saying 'it has to do with feasibility'. But is it not true that just because we have waited so long the feasibility is becoming more and more difficult and that we are actually trying to do that in these answers, I simply have had a lot more to do with the political unwillingness to act and to take responsibility for the people we have worked for us there for many years, especially the local embassy staff, who sometimes worked for us for up to twenty years? Isn't that the big problem, the political unwillingness?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u132	That is, of course, an almost rhetorical question, as Mr Dassen sounds, that he has actually come to that conclusion. In any case, no political will on my part. When it comes to helping your own embassy staff, if there's a big help question coming from there, I think you should take that seriously, as always from your own staff. But we are about to hear from the cabinet, and I think the Foreign Minister in particular, how she now looks back on that question, also on the question of aid. Maybe she didn't see that letter at all; I don't know that at all. So political unwillingness? Not to me. And the way the cabinet looks at that is also just up to the cabinet to speak out, so I'm not going to speculate about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u133	I am curious to see how Mr Van Wijngaarden looks at this, because it is precisely when you look at the feasibility and non-action of the cabinet that this has to do with it. I am curious about your analysis, because if you go a little further in time and you hear that the cabinet asks the ambassador to select 3 people from a list of 60 herself, that the ambassador insists on discussing it again in the Council of Ministers, and that after that has been discussed in the Council of Ministers, that request remains in that way, it does not just seem to me to be related to the feasibility of the Belhaj motion. Then, in my view, it has much more to do with the will to carry out the motion. I can't wait to see what you're looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u134	I think it would be a good idea to distinguish between a few things: the question of help coming from our own embassy staff and the addition of all kinds of categories through the Belhaj motion. In Mr Dassen's case, that was a bit of a mess. I want to say two things about it. First of all... I'm not in the cabinet, I'm not in the conversations, and I'm not going to speculate about what changed there either. I have no idea. Secondly, as a Chamber, I think we are talking with wisdom afterwards. Thanks to Mr Omtzigt's questioning, we have seen how France has been much earlier and more alert. I think that is a very important question: how do you reflect on that as a cabinet? We can ask that as the Chamber of the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u135	Thank you. Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u136	What can the Netherlands do? That's what the VVD said very recently in an interview in het Parool and that's an observation I can really agree with. But I do have a question for Mr Van Wijngaarden. The letter we received this week from the government shows that the government is currently aware of 453 Afghans who are in Afghanistan and who, according to those criteria of Mrs Belhaj's "wir-wine tie" motion, are eligible for evacuation to the Netherlands. But the government letters also show that there are also status holders among those 453. How much we don't know, we just don't get to hear it from the government. We should, but we don't know how many there are right now. So there are people in between who have ever come to the Netherlands with the story that it is very dangerous for them in Afghanistan and who have been given asylum; that is, asylum holders. They went back to Afghanistan even though they turned off that story, because they are there now, so they went there. They want to be evacuated again. Do you agree with the PVV that those people who actually cheated when they applied for asylum, or at least show that they do not take their own asylum applications seriously, should not be considered for evacuation? Especially not for a Dutch passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u137	I've been digging into that. It is true that there is a penalty when a status holder with a provisional status travels to the country from which someone has fled. That is the situation described by Mr De Roon. We asked questions about this in the round of questions. That is anonymous, but I would like to say that we have also asked questions about it. In the answers I read between last night very late and now it said that there was only one person who did, and that was with a permanent residence permit. So just to be careful. I could have told a big angry story here that probably went into it as God's Word in an elder, but that big angry story about the status holders I would have kept if that were indeed the case. I would find it insane and inexplicable to Dutch people who we ask to pay with, and from whom we need support for the reception of real refugees. It's inexplicable that such a person would go to the country he fled from on a family visit. But the situation is so that there has only been one case with a permanent status in the Netherlands. I do not think that such big words are appropriate, and that is why I did not express them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u138	Thank you. I would appeal to the Members of Parliament to keep the interruptions a little shorter, because we still have many speakers and four directors. We have agreed to give you space, but also that the interruptions are really shorter. Otherwise it is a waste of the speakers who are still coming, and we also have four rulers. Mr. De Roon. But it wasn't personal to you, Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u139	No, Mr. Chairman. I understand. I have to respond to Mr Van Wijngaarden. Of course, I have also read about the one person he is talking about, but that is not what my question is about. My question is about another passage, in which it is said that there are 453 Afghans in the picture, including status holders, plural. That's what the question is about. I say: I do not think they should be evacuated and should certainly not be eligible for a Dutch passport. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u140	Those would be people who are still in Afghanistan, you say. I think we should hear an answer from the cabinet about what's going on with these people. It can certainly affect the residence permit here in the Netherlands. I think that this may have consequences, but just to say here as a Chamber: it is perhaps stupid that those 453 people have ever fled there and that they were sitting there, but let them have a good time... I don't think that's the right thing to do. Do we know what will happen to them? We have to be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u141	Thank you. Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u142	I think that Mr Van Wijngaarden has just rightly pointed out that it is very easy to find everything afterwards about how things went. I think that this debate is also meant to look forward: how do you do something when it happens next time? I have here a copy of the timeline, as we all have in the past week. When I read it, I think: a lot of good intentions, but in the execution there is quite a few things that it lacks. If I take the most important point out for myself, the point is that I really do miss the fact that one of the three leaders in trade union affairs is four, but I should have left the Prime Minister out of the question of coordination. I miss that. If we look to the future, at what ministry would Mr Van Wijngaard say the coordination should be for an operation such as that which has taken place here in recent months?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u143	I'm sorry, but I need to look up the exact term. It's an English term, and it's not supposed to be. This is an emergency evacuation. I think that's a military situation. If you ask who was in charge, who ultimately had the perseverance to say that we were or were not leaving, for example with the departure of the charger and the staff, I am surprised that the answer says that this has happened together. Then I'm gonna be a little worried. I have questions about that. Who is ultimately the perseverance in this kind of operation? I think we should ask the Cabinet for a very critical look at how you're going to do this kind of operation in the future, so that there's one person in the chain of command in the base, as we know it in the Defense Department. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that, because it had to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u144	Of course, that is not entirely an answer to the exact question I asked, but I understand Mr Van Wijngaarden's reflection. I will put this to you in my contribution later. Perhaps this will result in a reflection from the cabinet. I think it is very important that we look from here and from this omission at what lessons we can learn towards the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. You continue your speech, Mr. Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u146	I'm moving fast towards a rounding. The events in Kabul have highlighted Europe's excessive military dependence on America. This wake-up call should take advantage of Europe by making greater use of its own military capabilities and employability. However, the EU's foreign chief missed that goal by immediately advocating an EU army. The existence of the military force and its main tasks stem from the Constitution, as well as the supreme authority over it by the Dutch Government. The VVD is not going to see Brussels officials being given the power to use defence equipment or personnel. Our national security would be best served if NATO were to be filled in with this EU commitment, not if the EU copied NATO. Josep Borrell's appeal was rather opportunistic and, given the EU's military performance, even a little pretentious. That doesn't mean we don't need the EU. We can use them very well in a common market for the defence industry, to ensure that defence equipment and systems are more compatible and to address new threats, such as disinformation, economic coercion or digital sabotage and espionage. There's still a world to be won. So yes, we certainly need the EU, but the EU is not and is not going to be a military alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u147	Thank you for your comprehensive speech, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. I'll check the clock. That took almost an hour. I now give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks for her speech. Let me take a look at Mr Kuzu. He's got another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u148	I made a mistake. I forgot to mention before my contribution that I also did it on behalf of the Den Haan Group. That's for the stenogram.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u149	Look. Thank you. That's very neat. We'll record this in the Acts. Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u150	Mr. Chairman. This morning we were standing right in front of the building with a few colleagues and a whole group of young Afghans. "We are also people," said one of them after he, a human rights activist from Afghanistan, told us about how the Netherlands had dealt with its human rights. A lot of Afghans who have worked for the Netherlands or who have to fear the Taliban for other reasons, for example because they are journalists or human rights activists, are still stuck in Afghanistan and are not sure of their lives. If the Netherlands had prepared and implemented evacuation plans in time, much more of these people would now be in safety. The picture that emerges from the facts and the answers to the hundreds of parliamentary questions that were needed to find out what happened is that the minimum has always been done and has always waited until the very last moment. There was either political powerlessness or political unwillingness. GroenLinks heavily charges the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna take care of all those in charge. The Secretary of State. The documents show that the ambassador and staff have been begging the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since March 2020 to prepare for the evacuation of embassy staff and their families in case the Taliban move forward. The fact that the Chamber didn't get that information until this afternoon is staggering. The fact that it took two days before the fall of Kabul to come up with a plan from the cabinet is even more staggering. Can the Foreign Minister convince us today that the actions of her ministry did not unnecessarily endanger the lives of the embassy staff and their families? Why did the Minister say in mid-August that France did not inform us of an evacuation in July, whereas the documents now show that France even offered to bring people for us? How is it that her ministry still has no idea how many Afghans under the Belhaj motion have reached out? It was big news: 21,500 Afghans wanted to go to the Netherlands. Now it turns out it's 21,500 e-mails and not unique people. A human error, the Minister writes. A human error or deliberate moodry? The Secretary of Defense. We have asked many questions to clarify what she did with the analysis of her own STUDY of January, in which STUDY clearly indicates that the Taliban would take over power in Afghanistan. If you know that a country is in danger of being overwhelmed by a jihadist terrorist organization, then all the alarm bells will go off, won't they? How is it that the Minister's evacuation plans have been based on commercial flights for so long and military aircraft have not been deployed before? I'd like a response. Finally, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. Why has she waited so long to speed up procedures for Afghan evacuates? Why is Afghanistan not designated as an unsafe country so that Afghans' asylum procedure can begin here? Why are these people being put on hold for months? Besides the responsibility, it is especially important that we now do our utmost to bring as many Afghans as possible under the Belhaj motion to safety and preferably to the Netherlands. GroenLinks believes that the e-mail address and the call centre should remain accessible for this purpose, and not close the day after tomorrow. The refugees must be escorted to neighbouring countries and re-established from there by the UNHCR if necessary. In this context, I would also like to be explained why the Foreign Minister is not implementing my motion on the resettlement of Afghan refugees in neighbouring countries. The Minister now writes: we are going to decide our position later. No, the Chamber has determined its position, and it is now up to this outgoing cabinet to carry out the motion. I would like to hear that commitment and hear the number of Afghan refugees that the Netherlands is prepared to resettle, in addition to the existing UNHCR quota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u151	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u152	Mr. Chairman. Like thieves in the night. That is the image that emerged around the flight of the Dutch embassy staff on Monday 16 August from Kabul. Ten days early. The captain who leaves the sinking ship first. On an American evacuation flight, they chose to flee Kabul instead of fulfilling their mission. Hundreds of countrymen were unable to leave the Taliban empire. In last night's state-of-the-art letter, the cabinet writes that it is very concerned about this. But the Volkskrant and the e-mails presented sketch a very different picture. Is it true that the French offered to evacuate the Dutch in July? Why didn't you do anything about this? And how is it that the cabinet wasn't aware of this? How is that consistent with the statement that the entire international community did not see such a rapid takeover of Kabul by the Taliban coming? And how is it possible that the information from the Volkskrant can't be read back in last night's state of affairs letter? At what point, by whom and why, has the list of hardness clauses been reduced from 60 to 3?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u153	I'd like you to finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u154	Yeah? I like that. In answer 14 of the facts, the answer is given to the question of who made the decision to move the embassy to the airport. But who then decided to let the Dutch embassy personnel flee on an American evacuation flight? Which minister was exactly aware of these steps? What is the consequence of the failure in the weeks before the fall of Kabul, the failure just before the fall of Kabul and the subsequent concealment of this failure in front of the House of Representatives? It is a shame that we have to hear crucial information again through the newspaper. I also have a few other questions. Why, for example, does EUR 1 million need bribes for technical assistance to reopen Kabul airport? Doesn't the Minister, with the knowledge of today, agree that the embassy staff fled too early? Once again, the trust of the House of Representatives has been damaged. Once again, crucial information has been withheld. The importance of the Netherlands is once again being squandered. The only question today is who gets the motion of censure on his or her pants this time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u155	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u156	It is an open secret that Mr Van Haga passed the selection for the elite troops of the army at the time. But now he has a very big judgment on the departure of the embassy staff there, namely "like thieves in the night." Aren't we, as a room, trying to be the armchair general? Is such disqualification from the people who were in the most terrible conditions and which we cannot imagine in the plenary sitting fair? I'd like to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u157	It is right that you should make that point. I also said that that is "the image" that arose. The problem arises in the information given to the House of Representatives on all these points. Of course we cannot imagine what happened there that night of Saturday on Sunday. I can't imagine that, and neither can you. I'll give it to you to do. I am a little surprised that the debate seems to take a completely different turn and that we are debating again as if it were the previous debate. The point we're standing here for is that we've just been misinformed. We had to learn from the Volkskrant how it really went. Then I do find the image that has emerged strange. And then I think we should rightly ask here for the right information. As far as I'm concerned, we still haven't gotten it. In any case, the information we have now had contradicts the information we have been able to read in the Volkskrant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u158	I would like to thank Mr Van Haga for his nuance. I like that he was indeed talking about the image that was created. He says he wants more information. I also think that Mr Van Haga is on my side when I say: let us take a good look at how other countries have done that, particularly France. How did they prepare and deal with these evacuations? What lessons does the cabinet draw from this? Does he agree with me that we should ask the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u159	Absolutely. That's exactly the point. How is it possible that other countries did evacuate in time, how they got the people they wanted to evacuate out of the country and we all couldn't do that? And in answer to your previous question: of course all those people on the ground are working very hard, whether they are military or embassy staff; you can't blame them so much. The problem is here. I totally agree with you. If you are tabling a motion on more comparative evidence or an inquiry into how other countries have done so, I will wholeheartedly support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u160	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. I shall then give the floor to Mr Boswijk of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u161	Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, today is about how we can get people out of there, how we can learn from the many mistakes that have been made and, finally, accountability. Mr. Chairman. Wouldn't it have been better if we had stuck rocks instead of rocks on the wall mirrors? No mirrors to merely preach to the rulers today, but above all to ourselves, the Chamber. The tragedy of Afghanistan not only exposes the wrong assessments or mistakes made by rulers. It doesn't just expose the fact that parties who didn't care about Afghan employees at first, were there when there was suddenly media attention for them. It also reveals that the geopolitical maps have been shaken differently and that, as European countries, without the United States, we are not capable of much. It reveals that parties who shout loudly that Defence should have done more are now calling for savings. I'm watching my own party, too. Although the last cabinet has invested heavily, there has been too much savings in the past. That's what fucked us with this evacuation. It's just a footnote in the factual account, but the fact that one of the C-130s had to be repaired before it could be used says enough as far as we are concerned. It's very simple: we could have evacuated more people with better and bigger planes. Mr. Chairman. Of all the rulers, our prime minister has been the constant factor for the past ten years. In 2014, he signed an agreement in Wales to reach the 2% NATO standard. However, there were years of savings after that. How does the Prime Minister view the state of our armed forces, especially in the light of a rapidly changing geopolitical situation? Mr. Chairman. The interpreters have been mentioned for years. Over the last few months, the Chamber has demanded tough action. How does the Secretary of Defense explain that interpreters have still been left behind in Afghanistan? Or even more harrowing, and I would like to mention him here today: Wali. He was on the list, but he was sent back twice at the gate. He couldn't do it the third time. He called me shortly after the attack to ask me if there had been any Dutch casualties and to thank me. Thank you for what? I also ask the Minister of Defence: what can we do for these people? Mr. Chairman. We could have evacuated more people if there had been a Dutch embassy team present the first crucial days after Kabul fell. The British ambassador was still putting stamps on the airport. I also noticed that it was a difference between day and night whether there were Dutch people present or not. Many Dutch and Afghans with the right papers were sent away by American soldiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u162	Maybe it's good to finish your speech. I should also like to look at Mr Van Dijk or that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u163	I'm gonna finish this paragraph. I would like a response from the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u164	Let me return to that first point, because I have heard Mr Boswijk make it before. He says: there are parties that are now very loudly shouting "shame" but who also wanted to cut back on Defence. I don't know if that means the SP at all. But I don't understand what he's trying to say, because is he actually insinuating that we should have done the war in Afghanistan with more defence, with more investment? Doesn't he see the total farce it's become? I say this in spite of all good intentions, no misunderstanding. Has he seen President Joe Biden's tweet? He said we shouldn't do wars like this anymore. This has become a fatal failure. In other words, Mr. Boswijk, this has nothing to do with budget cuts in the Defense Department, does it? This war is a total failure, isn't it? Or do you deny it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u165	I'm sure it's a total failure. My comment in this light was based on the evacuation. I say we have planes that are very old, one of which had to be repaired first. I hear several parties here saying: "Oh, those French do everything better." Those French had new planes. As a result, they have been able to evacuate many more people. If we had bigger planes, we might have been able to fly without stops and get more people in. I also hear people saying that Germany had brought helicopters there. If we had a larger plane, we would have been able to transport those helicopters there. Is the whole war in Afghanistan a farce? That is what we really disagree on. I think that this is a separate debate alone, that there will certainly be a debate. But in the light of this evacuation, it has become very clear that our armed forces are squeaking and cracking and that we could have evacuated more people if we had not cut back. Just so I'm clear, I'm gonna take my own side, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u166	In this way, I agree with Mr Boswijk. I'm also the first to say, when you send people out, when you start a mission, make sure your staff is safe and that it has good stuff, good equipment. Then you're absolutely right: then the DOD squeaks and cracks. As far as I'm concerned, they should do much less, especially this kind of ill-thought-out missions. However, do you agree with me that this evacuation has gone very wrong in this way because of a lack of government policy and that it was the Chamber that put the government to work, and not the government itself? And do you agree that this has been confirmed again by shocking reports in the Volkskrant this morning, showing that the embassy called for help, but the government did not give it home?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u167	I believe that is a question of the familiar path. I've been here for weeks calling for things to be different and better. I am in the middle of my plea, in which I will explain that further, so I hope to answer you in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u168	Yes. You will continue your speech and I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri, I think. But finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u169	Mr. Chairman. We could have evacuated more people if the people who were detained in Afghanistan had been adequately addressed. Guidance via WhatsApp has been a successful method. That is also clear from the facts. But why this method only days after many volunteers had already said that this was a successful method? Mr. Chairman. I've seen State officials do a lot of work. I have deep respect for the military and civil servants in Kabul. Those are the real heroes in this operation. But I am shocked by a deeper problem. It seems that directors did not feel the urgency at certain times or did not take the lead and that ministries did not quickly turn to a pragmatic approach to this crisis. That's what I see all the time. I often see a mismatch between theory here in The Hague and practice outside. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister to that. As far as the CDA is concerned, there must be an independent investigation, an investigation into the preparation of the evacuation, but also the role of the ministries, how motions and written questions have been dealt with and how we are going to operate in this changing geopolitical shift. Finally, Mr President. In the meantime, it seems to be a common thread that journalists know what is going on rather than that we, as a supervisory body, know it. We can't accept that anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u170	I will give Mr Jasper van Dijk a chance to ask one last question. Then Mrs Piri and then Mr Eppink. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u171	Very nice, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. This final word by Mr Boswijk is very important. He said to me earlier: was it not known that the CDA was critical of the government's actions? That's true; you were very critical about it. You called it a cluster fuck. And now you're asking for an investigation to look at that again. That investigation's gonna take a lot of time. But you've already called it a cluster fuck. And we've already been given revelations. And we can already see that the government has not informed us properly. Do you acknowledge with me today, Mr. Boswijk, that the cabinet has failed in this evacuation? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u172	I said at the beginning of my speech what matters. First of all, it's about getting the people who are still there back here as soon as possible. I am very curious to see what the cabinet will say about that in a moment. Secondly, it is about learning from the mistakes that have been made here. I really want to avoid skipping this step. I see the pattern that we are seeing here today, also on other files, also on my other portfolio. I think it is important that we address that problem. Indeed, we have all received information here from the cabinet. I only really advocate an independent investigation for which we as a Chamber set the frameworks, so that we can make a judgment. For the rest, I'm just gonna wait for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u173	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u174	Mr. Boswijk, can I just have an answer? Did the Cabinet fail on the evacuation? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u175	Well, Mr President, it is now being pretended that I am not... I have said several times that mistakes have been made at several times. You just mentioned the c-word I said on August 17th. Did it fail? Well, give it a word. Of course it failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u176	There are still a number of interruptions. First of all, Mrs Piri, then Mr Eppink, then Mr Jansen, then Mrs Van der Plas and then Mr Ceder. First of all, Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u177	First of all, my respect for Mr Boswijk. We have seen over the last few weeks that he was one of the MPs who was extremely concerned and that he has worked very hard with many veterans, volunteers, policemen, also civil servants and soldiers. So first of all, my respect for my colleague Boswijk. Second. I hear my colleague from the CDA mention all kinds of examples, and I think there were three of them, of which he says: if we had, we would have been able to evacuate more people. Of course, in this debate we must have an answer to the question of what we are doing for those who are left behind. And we must also have an answer to the question of how we learn from these mistakes. But today is also about political accountability. Then my question is as follows. You and I have supported chamber motions that have won a majority in this Chamber. The Parliamentary Motion of 3 June: bring the interpreters here before the Dutch military return. The Chambermovement of July 7: make sure you give travel papers to all those people you know for sure they've worked for us. Couldn't we have saved a lot more people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u178	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u179	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u180	I respect, of course, Mr Boswijk's good intentions and good intentions. On behalf of the CDA, he was one of the people who ensured that the Belhaj motion had a majority. But I see the number of e-mails coming in to the State Department on 9 September had risen to 22,790. It says: 'Looks to be related to the Belhaj motion'. So many applications, possible asylum applications, and some e-mails are even about multiple people, for example groups. Do you think the Belhaj motion is still enforceable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u181	When we tabled this motion, and I also believe in my first contribution, on 17 August, I said that the CDA has always been for care in the region and for a proper check. Only we, the West as a whole, have created chaos here. We've abandoned people there. As a result, we no longer have the luxury of making certain demands. So maybe we'll have people over here who we're about to say, "Oh, maybe we'd rather see differently." Yeah, that's definitely gonna happen. At the same time, I would also like to say that I am very pleased that we supported this motion. That 20,000 or 40,000, that already indicates that no one really knows what we're talking about. But I'm also getting hundreds of e-mails. Some people e-mail me five times a day for four weeks. Yeah, it'll tick. I believe that this has always been the starting point of the CDA, which, if people have worked for us and are therefore at risk, we have a moral obligation to protect them. The reality is that we in Afghanistan have nothing more to say and are therefore dependent on other organisations to do that work. This has also been demonstrated by the letter from the cabinet. Of course, people will fall out too. I have also had emails from people who try to make a link with the Netherlands in a very artificial way. Choices will always be made, but I think we should be generous and not too difficult and not let ourselves be guided by arguments that there are too few sleeping places or that we have too few houses. Then we have to deal with the housing problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u182	Do you think that the Netherlands can handle 20 000 to 40,000 new asylum seekers, when you see that all the azc's are already full and that there is a huge housing shortage? Then there's a limit to what a country can take, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u183	It's handy that I can draw on my previous life. I worked as a developer. I can tell you that most of the houses we've rented out are actually rented out five times over the counter to expats, to migrant workers. The image of mass refugee flows is really a lot more nuanced. I'm annoyed by it, but well, I'm not a spokesperson for Living, but the housing shortage is the problem. That can't be an excuse to hide from your moral duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u184	I shall now give the floor to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u185	For an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u186	An interruption, yes. And then there's a bunch of people with interruptions, so you're gonna have to stand still for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u187	Oh, I thought I'd cut out. Well, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u188	You're not done. Something interesting just came up in the interrupting debate. Of course, we agree that there's a lot more money to go to the DOD, so that's very good. But the point of the war came along: was it good or not? When the question was whether it was a good war, you said: yes, it was. I was wondering: what purpose were we in Afghanistan and how would we have made it if it had been a good war?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u189	I can talk about this for hours. I'm actually trying to avoid it, but I'm gonna do it anyway. The original target was Al-Qaeda and the attacks on September 11th. We've all read books about it or seen documentaries about it. Where things have gone wrong is that we as NATO countries and as a Western world have not had a clear strategy: how are we going to get to Afghanistan? Eventually it changed to: we're going to do nation building there. I think that is a good thing, because you want to prevent hatred in Afghanistan from happening again in a moment, and we are about to get a kind of repetition of it. You can already see that happening. Al-Qaeda and KK dolls again in different areas on. Quite frankly, I find it naive to think that you can build a country where some standards and values are still centuries behind, a country where a lot of people are illiterate, in twenty years' time. I think we should have been there for generations. We can overdo that, but at the last minute there were only a few thousand NATO troops. Can we not achieve this as 30 Western NATO countries? Apparently, we have been guided by domestic politics and made an easy decision: we need to get out of there as soon as possible. And now we're stuck with the fried pears. That's on us. The Afghans who worked for us must not be the victims of that. That's how I look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u190	I think you're very clear. You liked that moral war, that regime change. In fact, we should have stayed there for decades to achieve that goal. That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u191	Yes. Look, it's very simple. After World War II, it took 44 years for the East and West to come together. Apart from all horrors and the Holocaust, Germany had strong institutions and was a strong country. So that's where we've been for 44 years. Then it's naive to think that you can leave a country much less developed after 20 years. I hear a lot of people say, "The Afghans should have done it themselves. We trained and heavily armed 300,000 Afghans there." The fact is that until the very last moment crucial parts of the Afghan army were done by Western countries. The intelligence, logistics and command were done by the Americans until recently. If you suddenly leave there very abruptly, you shouldn't be surprised that such an army suddenly collapses. By the way, some soldiers haven't been paid for months by corruption. We, the West, have simply failed there. We should have been there better and longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u192	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB, Mr Ceder and Mr Stoffer. I'd like to agree with you that we'll do the interruptions in half and not in threes anymore. That has nothing to do with Mrs. Van der Plas. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u193	I will be brief indeed. I have great respect for Mr Boswijk's commitment. I followed that. I also followed him on Twitter during that period and I know it has made a very heavy change on him. I would therefore like to express my appreciation for this in any case. Mr Boswijk spoke in his speech about the leaks to the press and said that we should always read it from the media and that we should not accept that anymore. I fully agree with that. I'm just wondering what that's made of, not accepting that anymore. For I see, not only from Mr Boswijk of the CDA, very little action from the parties. Everyone here shouts, "We don't accept that and we shouldn't accept that," but I see that nothing else is happening. So I was wondering if Mr Boswijk might have a plan for how we really do not accept it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u194	A justified remark by Mrs Van der Plas. That nothing happens at all, I certainly don't agree with her. We also saw it on the agricultural dossier last week about expropriation and now again on the withdrawal of permits. You requested a debate on this. I do not normally support these requests at all, because there must be a concrete proposal. If we are going to request a debate about every poop and fart, we are just debating and not working. But precisely because it was leaked within such a short period of time, I supported your request for a debate on this leak.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u195	Then we'll remember. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u196	And that too is highly appreciated of course, but it is no longer every poop and fart. It's just a constant strain of leaked information every day. Today in the Volkskrant again a whole story. So I sincerely wonder, apart from supporting the debate... that is why I requested a debate to do something. That's also why I'm not going to Prince's Day, making a statement somewhere. Prince's Day will go on without me. I know that, too. But in concrete terms, suppose that, for example, there will be motions of censure or motions of censure. I keep seeing that these kinds of motions all end up disappearing into the trash. That was kind of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u197	I really think that is a debate in The Hague about whether we are going to support motions of censure, yes or no, when we have not yet had the debate. I haven't actually heard a letter from the rulers. I'd like to wait and see. Quite frankly, therefore, I think it is so important that there is an independent investigation. We now have a motion for a resolution which is almost unanimous. You're one of the co-signators. I think it is very important that we have all the facts right. I am not going to say in advance that I am going to support a motion of censure or censure. That's not gonna change the world either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u198	Clear. Mr Cedar of the Christian Union and then Mr Stoffer of the SGP. Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, have been able to see Mr Boswijk in action in recent weeks. My respect for him was already great and that has only grown. There is something gnawing in my mind and I wonder whether Mr Boswijk is also in the same position, namely about the information to the Chamber on several aspects of the matter............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Six months ago, as is clear from the public record, it was seen as inevitable that the Taliban would take over the administration of the country. We didn't know when, but we did know it would happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u200	And you're asking?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u201	When did you, as a MP, know that this was actually known to STUD and to those with whom the information was shared by STUDY, including at least the Secretary of Defense?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u202	As soon as you knew. Not much faster. I have also been surprised by this, especially since my colleague Agnes Mulder in the Article 100 procedure, which I believe was in May, asked very explicitly: do we not abandon Afghanistan and is this not a scenario, do the Taliban not take over quickly? At that time, the Foreign Minister, the then Foreign Minister, said quite explicitly: we are not abandoning Afghanistan. Well, explain to me what is happening right now, especially in the light of the information from the STUDY which apparently was already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u203	I share that surprise. I, too, have heard hopeful reports over the last few months that it would only be a question of whether the Taliban would take over the country. But do you not think that this should have been shared confidentially with the Chamber, if necessary, so that we could also adjust? For six months this cabinet knew that it was inevitable that the Taliban would take over the country. We in the Chamber didn't know that. We've tried, with the little information we had, to adjust where we could. And in the last week we have to find out what the actual situation was, and since a few days that it could have been known to us for six months. How do you judge that? Do you think that the Court has not been sufficiently informed about this issue, not wrongly, but not sufficiently informed about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u204	At the last, I say yes. I don't think anyone can disagree with that. I would point out that we have repeatedly asked written questions which were answered long after the deadline. 500 or nearly 500 questions were answered long after the deadline. If there is then an article in the Volkskrant a few hours later with information that is not in the facts, yes, then you are incompletely informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u205	Thank you. Mr Stoffer of the SGP, and we are doing interruptions in two now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u206	Mr Boswijk states in his speech that, like me, he missed coordination in the period prior to mid-August, that one of the ministers stood up and said 'I am in charge here'. He asked the Prime Minister to consider this. One thing's clear. In my opinion, it should not be there; it should be in one of the other three ministries. Could Mr Boswijk also give some consideration to this from his point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u207	I can very well remember the weekend before the fall of Kabul. Colleagues Salmona Belhaj, Kati Piri and I have been calling several ministries. We crept up the feeling that we were all watching an accident where everyone assumed a little that someone else was going to help. That didn't happen in the end. So there's been a lack of direction? Yeah, I saw that, too. I asked the Prime Minister for a reflection on how it could be that we are very good at the theory, writing in policy visions, but we are no longer able to turn to practice properly. I see that now in this crisis, but I also see it on my other portfolio, agriculture. I'm worried about that. So I'm looking at that wider. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister. But I think it is a fair question to ask the trade ministers how they themselves look at who should have directed when. That's certainly a fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u208	This is, of course, also something to draw lessons from towards the future. I'll ask the question later, but it's good to put it that way. In this respect, we shall return to that in the second term. Thanks for the answer. It is good that the question has also been asked more broadly now than just to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u209	Thank you, Mr. Boswijk. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1 for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Srebrenica, Iraq, Syria and now Afghanistan. Areas left behind in irreparable debris, families who mourn their lives for the unintelligible injustice that is done to them. So big on a scale that we can't imagine anything at all. What about the common denominator? Western military interventions. Dutch military interventions. Instead of spreading freedom, democracy and human rights, people have been deprived of their lives, victims and disrupting entire countries and societies. Now the missionary cabinet says: yes, that's all we can do for all Afghans we should have evacuated, which we would have evacuated, but which we won't evacuate now. I keep wondering, how the hell is it possible? Why doesn't this cabinet keep doing everything it can to get everyone on the lists here? I find it really heartbreaking and this morning struggled to contain my tears when I met the young Afghans here at the door, who came to offer the petition. There is nothing I can do but once again express my condolences to everyone from the Afghan diaspora who feels connected to this issue. I really can't imagine the pain, the anxiety, the grief and the grief. Mr. Chairman. Today's most important lesson is that militarism and imperialist war politics have never brought security or justice to anyone at all. So let us finally stop militaristic interventions here, withdraw from international conflicts and invest in de-escalation, disarmament and an end to the war and arms industry. Then we'll never have to use our Defense personnel again as a game ball of war politics. My mailbox is full of hundreds of e-mails from Dutch soldiers who are abandoned, who are faced with an AOW-hole and who can't count on the government when they come back with PTSS. Mr. Chairman. We have often been told, unfortunately too often, by this outgoing cabinet in recent weeks: we have done everything we can to bring people to safety. Yet it turns out that even our very best for the umpteenth time is simply not enough. Once again, our best efforts have led us to abandon people. How can we, as a Chamber, as a country and as a citizen, ever justify military intervention? What makes us believe that we have the right to supposedly save populations? Saved from what? From the debris we deliberately leave them in? The Netherlands has contributed to the endless war situation in Afghanistan and thus we have a great moral responsibility for welcoming and receiving every person who has fled Afghanistan. I stress "every person" because a guarantee of a safe and dignified existence must not depend on your profession or commitment to the international community. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with the following questions. What does this missionary cabinet do to ensure that all Afghan refugees receive adequate psychological care in the aftermath of this nightmare? What is the government going to do to get left behind relatives of evacuated Afghans, such as adult children, here for the time being? What about the motion adopted to facilitate safe escape routes from Afghanistan to NATO countries and to support immediately and without bureaucratic barriers all Afghans regarded as enemies by the Taliban? How does this motion relate to the news that not all Afghans who have worked for the Netherlands will be evacuated? Can we finally get the promise that Afghans will not be permanently deported even after the end of the moratorium?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u211	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u212	I'll keep it super short, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna make you happy. At the beginning of her speech, Mrs Simons also mentioned Srebrenica in the list. Can she explain why?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u213	I believe that everyone in our country is aware of the catastrophic outcome of the Dutch intervention there and of the victims who have caused it, not only on the ground, but also within our own armed forces. I make that comparison because it is another example of an intervention that we have not thought through properly, apart from the fact that we might not have had to commit it on moral grounds, and in which we left a mess after leaving the site, to put it very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u214	That is of course a big kick after towards all Dutchbat veterans. Does Mrs Simons think it's careful to do it this way to those veterans? Would Mrs Simons have wished NATO had not intervened there? Because then the genocide would have continued. Then Mladić and Karadžić were not arrested. I find it rather easy to put away the whole intervention that has taken place there in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u215	I have started my speech with areas that have in common that, despite the fantastic noble intentions we have had by interfering with such an international conflict, at the end of the journey, at the bottom of the line, we must conclude that... I find the habit here a little faint that you, the moment you mention facts that are critical, are paired with: "That's a shame for anyone who... "In my speech, I quote that the people who went there at risk for their own lives, with the best intentions and with a loyalty to the country they serve, cannot count on this government when they return. So I'm having a little trouble with those gratuite accusations every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u216	Thank you. You've been able to respond. I think you were at the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u217	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u218	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt. Go ahead, Mr. Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u219	Mr. Chairman. I read the article in De Volkskrant this morning with amazement. How could the ministers ask the embassy to choose 3 people from 60 people in agony? We are discussing the facts today. It is facts that create a great deal of uncertainty. Some things have become clearer, for example that other countries, including France, have already started evacuating their people much earlier. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Ministers and Secretary of State how it is possible that there has not been an earlier speedy action to pick up the people who have worked for the Dutch military. We knew the American troops would withdraw. Intelligence services and experts warned that Kabul would eventually fall. Since spring 2020, the ambassador and local staff have been asking in increasingly clear terms to prepare for the evacuation. Why has the Cabinet failed for so long to pick up our people? Why hasn't cooperation been better at EU level to evacuate our people? Mr. Chairman. The facts of the case do not answer these questions. The Minister indicated that there were no concrete plans for evacuation at the embassies of like-minded countries in April. But isn't it true that high-risk countries, such as Afghanistan, always have evacuation plans in place, and that these plans are updated every year? Mr. Chairman. The French newspaper Le Monde already wrote in May about the large-scale evacuation of employees. The British Minister also expressed his views on this matter on 1 June. Were the ministers really not aware of this, even after the explicit request of the French in July to evacuate our people, or the ambassador's e-mail? Or were they aware, but was this not a reason to accelerate evacuation operations in the Netherlands? And if so, why not? Mr. Chairman. The story of the facts contains many more of these inexplicable irregularities. On 21 July it was recommended to leave Afghanistan as soon as possible. Subsequently, on 27 July, the Secretary of State informed her colleagues to co-sign a letter to maintain Afghans' forced return, while earlier, on 30 July, a high-level meeting was held between Foreign Affairs, JenV and Defence, discussing the urgency of the deteriorating situation for Afghan interpreters. Then, on 11 August, the cabinet announced that it would be very reluctant to allow Afghan employees to appear. Only the nuclear family can come. Are you following it, Mr. Chairman? How does the cabinet explain this chronology? Apparently, contact has taken place between the various departments. But what decision was taken here? This doesn't make any sense to me. I would therefore like to ask whether the reports of these talks between the Foreign Office, the Ministry of Defence and JenV on the evacuation in the last six months can be sent to the Chamber. Why did the Secretary of State refer Afghans' return request to the European Commission when she was aware of the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan? And what was the embassy's response to this request? Finally, Mr President. I do not need to tell you that Afghanistan is clearly no longer a safe country to return to, and that it will not be in the years to come. I therefore call on the government to declare Afghanistan unsafe immediately and to welcome Afghans generously in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u220	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u221	Mr. Chairman. Imagine: you live in a country that has been plagued for decades by powers, the Soviets, the Taliban and the western coalition, which have increased their self-interest over yours. You fear the cruel Taliban with their executions and tortures, the Taliban that women and girls regard as tenth-rate. You want to help the Dutch mission. You know that if the Taliban comes back at full strength, your life and your family's won't be safe. But you trust that should that day come the Netherlands will stand with you, just as you are there for them. But then the word of the Netherlands turns out to be nothing. Interpreters, security guards, cooks, drivers and local staff of the Dutch embassy in Afghanistan literally live in terror of the Taliban because they served the Dutch mission. The embassy staff have been begging for help and a plan to evacuate local staff several times since 10 March last year, a year and a half ago. On 16 September tomorrow exactly a year ago, this happened again, and again on 1 December 2020. All the beggings were completely ignored. The cabinet, with ministers Kaag and Bijleveld first, was deaf in East India. The Military Intelligence and Security Service warned in January of this year: the Taliban is advancing. Many warnings followed: from intelligence services, trade unions and NGOs. Nevertheless, the cabinet deliberately stalled at every step. And then, through the Foreign Minister a month ago, the government dares to say that the Netherlands was surprised by the rapid advance of the Taliban. You don't listen to the embassy and intelligence for a year and a half, you ignore France's offer to help evacuate, and you spend a year and a half in the ears to play the murdered innocence. Mr. Chairman. I'll close with a few questions. Does the government recognise that it has been totally negligent not to have clearly, from the outset, who worked for the Dutch mission and who would be eligible for evacuation in the event of a crisis, which means that people's lives are now at stake? And why is it not in the facts and in the factual questions that the embassy has been warning about the return of the Taliban for a year and a half and begging to bring the staff to safety? Has the government deliberately kept this under wraps? Why did the Foreign Minister say in August that she didn't know that France was evacuating staff, while France was already offering the Netherlands in July to take people on a flight? Why hasn't this possibility been used? Does the government recognise that it has not carried out Belhaj's motion? Does the government recognise that closing the mailbox tomorrow also runs counter to that motion? What a contrast with the United Kingdom, which continues to deal with applications without a time limit. Is it true that the 70 people who were already promised that they would be evacuated now have to travel on their own to neighbouring countries, with all the dangers of that, and that the Netherlands will buy them a plane ticket? Is that what the Netherlands means by "extra effort"? Does the government recognise that it is extremely heartless to allow the embassy to choose which 3 of the 60 members of the embassy staff are allowed to join? How does the government explain this inhumanity? Finally, Mr President. What I want to see today from the government is recognition, and self-reflection, of the fact that it acted far too late and also of the attitude towards the House of Representatives, which was disrespectful. In addition, the most important question is: how do we help those who are left behind, not next month, not next week, but now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u222	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u223	Mr. Chairman. Two days ago, the Defense Commission was invited to join the Army. Along with a few of you, I went to that invitation. Those who were there will remember the statement of the commander of the army, because it certainly made a deep impression on me. We had declared world peace, but now we have found that peace is not coming. Only we've already sold our tanks. The general perfectly summarized the underlying idea: world peace. The members of the cartel that governs our country believe in it and are in favour of globalism, international unification and regime change, precisely because that world peace is within their grasp. They believe that all cultures will eventually become one and move towards each other; that it is a matter of education, market forces and giving each other something, until everyone is a gender-neutral, atheist and uprooted world citizen. Blamed by this idea, Western leaders brought war to the Middle East, brought destabilization, destruction of millions of lives, and now, with the return of the Taliban in Afghanistan, but already with the anarchy in Iraq, Libya and Syria, we see clearly what this leads to. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the issue of evacuation and the absurd incompetent way in which the withdrawal of the West has taken place. All words are really lacking in this. What the hell are you thinking leaving over $85 billion worth of weaponry behind? But deep down, it's really about something else. It's not about failing evacuation policy. More important is the failure of your worldview. You fantasize about some kind of world interest, a interest of humanity. Demissionary Minister Kaag last week called on the Taliban to form an inclusive government. It's like the Taliban is going to run the D66 election program. Taliban 2022 releases everyone, but nobody falls. After 20 years of Middle East words about this, you still haven't learned your lesson. How naive do you have to be to believe that with the right education, including liberal indoctrination, subsidy projects by NGOs and the overthrow of governments, all people in the world will become loyal D66-voting oat milk cappuccino drinking vegetarians? Of course not. The real consequence was death and destruction in the Middle East, and also a weakening of ourselves. In the Netherlands too, we have felt the consequences of the Middle East wars. Hundreds of thousands of non-Western immigrants came this way. From street terror, terrorism and crime to overloading healthcare, education and housing markets. How does the Prime Minister judge the outcome of the wars in the Middle East? But as if this weren't bad enough, you now want to give carte blanche to all Afghans and their uncles, aunts, brothers, sisters, cousins, sons, daughters, fathers and mothers who say they've ever worked for the Netherlands; potentially tens of thousands more people. The first 23,000 e-mails have already arrived. That is why FvD advocates realpolitik: always the Dutch interest. There is no end to history, there is no such thing as world peace. That is precisely why I was so shocked by what we found on Monday when we visited the barracks. Alloys that were so bad that the plates literally fell out of the system ceilings and the plaster of the wall; stories about broken mortars, old equipment and even ambulances without bandages. The contrast in your priorities becomes painfully visible. While you're working on the world, you're letting our land be lost. It is time to choose the Netherlands now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u224	Thank you, Mr. Jansen. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u225	Mr. Chairman. It will only be you, that embassy or NGO employee who stranded with his or her family at the gates of an airport, driven by thousands of fleeing countrymen. For the gates of the airport, and you will only be yourself and experience that deep fear. With pain in our hearts today we are looking back at Kabul's fall, at what went wrong there, despite the commendable commitment of the crisis team, especially in the run-up to it, and at its lessons for the future. For the SGP Group, the key question, addressed to all three leaders, is as follows: why did the cabinet only move so late from talking to acting, from talking and consulting to doing? For that is the impression that remains from the pieces around the facts story: an image of vagueness and slowness, of "too little, too late," of sticking to administrative demands and a paper reality, while reality on the ground, the real reality, deteriorated dramatically. The speed with which the Taliban took Afghanistan surprised friend and enemy, but signals that it would go that way, including from the STUDY, were beyond it. President Biden had mentioned September 2021 as the hard end date. How could we have failed like this in The Hague? My impression of all the pieces I see is: good intentions, but no coordination, no leadership. I would urge the Foreign and Defence Ministers to reflect on the months ahead of mid-August. Mr. Chairman. A number of bottlenecks raise particular questions for the SGP Group. Those are the next ones. Why were signals from our embassy, such as the letter of fire of 1 December 2020, not sufficiently taken seriously by The Hague? Why were administrative thresholds not removed much earlier than on 11 August, so that at least the Defence Interpreters and local embassy staff could be actively evacuated? Why was it only on 30 July, after questions of 8 July, that vulnerable groups deserved our protection, and in the end the conclusion was that this was not the case? And how will people who helped us and their immediate neighbors still be helped? But also: how do we ensure a clear demarcation of that group? Today it is important for the cabinet and parliament to also reflect more broadly on the lessons of twenty years of war against terrorism. After the horrible attacks of 9/11, the war against Islamic terrorism was moral, military and international. But in a broken world, reality is unbearable. That is for the SGP Group lesson one: the world will not be sculpted according to a western model. We have stumbled upon the limits of the possibilities for democratisation and state-building. The SGP has deep respect for the hard work of our military, diplomats and NGO staff for the ordinary Afghans, because they were also involved in this task, let us also mention security, sanitation, freedom, food and education, matters that were welcomed with open arms by the majority of the ordinary Afghans. But the greater the responsibility on military missions is for a strategy with limited and achievable goals and also a sound exit strategy. And that brings us to lesson two: our enormous dependence on allies. The uncoordinated withdrawal of the US surprised many, but that there was no option left for us but to follow the tail between the legs, is not a law of nature. And that is, at the same time, lesson three: our armed forces do not have the capacity to deliver what politicians, that is, we, want from them in a crisis such as Afghanistan. In the answer to the factual question 71, the cabinet also fully admits this. As parliamentarians, we can charge ourselves with this. Let politicians take this fully with them in a subsequent coalition agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u226	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u227	Thank you, Mr President. The events and images in Afghanistan have shocked the world. First of all, I would like to express my thanks to the troops and staff who have worked in dangerous times in Afghanistan and in recent weeks. I was in Harskamp a few weeks ago and I spoke to an Afghan interpreter who spoke English to me and was very grateful. She once again expressed gratitude for the fact that she is still alive and for the commitment of the Netherlands in those days. Today, with regard to the Christian Union, there is one question at the heart: is the government acting justly in the Afghanistan dossier? That is a serious and complicated question, which is not easy to answer, but one that is in the Chamber, because we have a controlling task. Doing justice is a big word and also an uncomfortable word, because it implies that we are all held to a certain measure. In any case, justice comes down to giving everyone what is due to him or her in classical definitions. Remembering something or not making a choice is also a moral choice. Mr. Chairman. In this dossier, I wonder whether there are a number of areas where justice has been done. First of all, right to the local staff, some of which have been committed to the Dutch mission for almost twenty years. When I look at today's pieces, how long have they been begging for help? This creates the image of a government that deals with it slowly. How is it that the ambassador has been asked to choose three people? Why not 60? Can the Minister clarify that? Who made that decision? Which ministers were responsible for this? Mr. Chairman. Has the Chamber's motions been properly dealt with? I have my doubts about that too. My motion to evacuate in neighbouring countries seems no longer to be implemented. The Piri motion to have interpreters away from the absence of the Dutch troops does not seem to have been fully implemented, because there are still interpreters. The Belhaj motion has not yet been fully implemented. Mr. Chairman. Has this file been done justice to the Chamber? I have my doubts about that too. In addition to motions that are not being carried out, it appears again today that we are not fully informed. How is that possible? After we have had a motion adopted last time, we would like the government to show a little more respect for parliamentary democracy and for how it deals with us and with information. Mr. Chairman. I'm worried. Who took the lead, with all the consequences? Has sufficient good employership been shown towards the local embassy? Doing justice in this file means that we must also look forward. In addition to an independent investigation, it is important that the people covered by the Belhaj motion still receive our support. We must do everything we can to make that possible. Mr. Chairman. I still have a number of questions for each member of the government. To the Minister of Foreign Affairs, did you find the facts that were sent to the Chamber complete? Do you think you have fully informed the Chamber? You spoke during a previous committee debate on the cabinet position that would have been changed with regard to non-interpreting restraint. Why was that cabinet position there in the first place? Who ordered that? Can you explain why that decision was changed a few days later? You have the authority to issue consular emergency visas. Why didn't you do that to the local embassy staff? From when did you know that STUDY in January made the analysis that it would be inevitable that the Taliban would take over Afghanistan's administration? France offered flights to the Netherlands. It's been denied. Why was it denied? You've asked the ambassador to select three people from the indicated 60. Was there no place for the other people in the Netherlands? Was that decided in a cabinet meeting? Can you be specific about who helped determine that? You said on camera that you had no knowledge of French evacuation flights in the month of July. However, the e-mails show something else. Did you bring out any wrong information about this? Mr. Chairman. I see I'm running out of time, but I still have a few questions for the Secretary of Defense. Is the STUD opinion of 14 January shared with other directors? Why didn't the Secretary of Defense inform the Chamber about this? Do you think the Chamber would have found this information useful at that time? Mr. Chairman. Two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u228	Yes, very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u229	To the Secretary of State, also with regard to the previous cabinet position of restraint: how does the Secretary of State intend to implement the Belhaj motion? I like to hear her talk about it. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about his role as regards restraint to evacuate, and his role or lack of it in taking direction. How does he look back on that? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u230	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. I now give the floor to Mrs van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u231	Mr President, dear citizens at home. Jan van Twist, Bart van Boxtel, Michael Donkervoort, an unknown soldier who robbed himself of his life, Robert Donkers, Cor Strike, Timo Smeehuijzen, Jos Leunissen, Tom Krist, Martijn Rosier, Tim Hoogland, Ronald Groen, Wesley Schol, Aldert Poortema, Dennis van Uhm, Mark Schouwink, Jos ten Brinke, Mark Weijdt, Azdin Chadli, Kevin van de Rijdt, Mark Leijsen, Marc Harders, Jeroen Houweling, Luc Janzen, Fons Dur. I hope that the ministers have engraved these names in the depths of their souls. The names of these and other brave and loyal countrymen, our veterans. The said boys and men gave the ultimate sacrifice for our country and for Afghanistan. I want their names to sound good one more time in this room. Because they sacrificed their lives, it is particularly poignant that Minister Bijleveld went to the movie The Battle of the Scheldt while the Battle of Kabul was going on, and that Minister Bijleveld now poked two hats with Jesse Klaver and Lilianne Ploumen. Meanwhile, the Taliban crawled out of their stone faster and faster. The facts show that the ministers ignored calls from their own staff, sought late cooperation with allies, ignored the Chamber of Lies and motions. Mr. Chairman. What the hell happened in the Minister's head when she told the ambassador that she only had to choose three chosen relatives from a group of 60 people begging for their lives? Did the minister ever watch the movie Sophie's choice? An absurd inhumanity. Is that the treasure of diplomatic experience that the Minister and other Members of Parliament have so often been talking to me about? Throwing embassy staff's family in front of the bus on an assignment to the ambassador? Meanwhile, our veterans who were there and often lost their own health, had to watch powerless from home as their hard work was thrown out. The deep shame they feel and shared with us for the actions of our rulers is at my heart. Due to the failure of this minister, they themselves must now try to bring Afghan helpers to safety through app groups. Abdul Wali, the savior of Tarin Kowt, who, at risk for his own life, evacuated one of our interpreters from Uruzgan and saved his life, is sent to the airport. Despite Minister Bijleveld's promise to get him to the Netherlands, he was not on the list. He's hiding there now, while Dutch veterans are trying their stinking best to save him and his family. I would like to know how many times we have been in contact with the people we want to evacuate since the departure of the Netherlands. Why are volunteers still forced to save a string of people, where that's a minister's job? Mr. Chairman. Afghanistan was a 20-year chapter for our country. A chapter in which countrymen have made great sacrifices, in which they have worked together and in which they have put soul and salvation. This will stay with them and many Dutch people for a long time. The process is just beginning for many. We therefore call for a separate national Afghanistan monument, as a place where the fallen, the veterans and local allies are honored and where they can forget the many mistakes that have been made in recent months. We hope that we in the Chamber will never forget these mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u232	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21. Go ahead, Mr. Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let there be no doubt: JA21 has been committed to the evacuation of Afghan interpreters from the moment she sits in the Chamber. France succeeded on 1 July, but the Dutch government was behind the facts. She did not realize that the Taliban would march so quickly to Kabul. Minister Kaag, a well-known member of the region, said he had been robbed, but STVD warned already in January that the Taliban would take over Afghanistan. Many Afghan interpreters were stuck in The Hague procedures. Mr. Chairman. 273 interpreters were the initial number, but suddenly, to the surprise of Minister Kaag, there were all kinds of people who had to be evacuated or repatriated. Why was the minister surprised by the large number of Dutch people who were still in Afghanistan? Perhaps she is equally surprised at the uncontrolled flow of Afghans that is now threatening to come our way. The cause is a motion from its own party calling for the categories of interpretation procedure to be widened. My colleague Joost Eerdmans warned about this uncontrolled power before. That is exactly what the Belhaj motion has led to. From hundreds we went to thousands and now to tens of thousands. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs reports that it has received almost 44,000 e-mails. Almost 23,000 e-mails related to D66's motion. Some of these e-mails relate to several people and even a large group. The fact is that the number of people is considerably higher than the number of mails. Minister Kaag concluded, according to the NRC, that I will only believe for a moment that this group would be far too large. That's right. Over the past two weeks, the Netherlands has absorbed 2,400 asylum seekers. These are the highest figures since the 2015 asylum crisis. Our asylum shelter is already full; there is even a need to emigrate to emergency locations. Moreover, the highlight is that there were status holders in Afghanistan. How is that possible? Returning to the country of origin is prohibited by law for status holders. Does the Secretary of State uphold the law, or doesn't he? That is why I ask the Secretary of State: how many people were involved? A lot of people still need to be checked. It is also unknown how many status holders there are left in Afghanistan. Any word on this? Is the Secretary of State prepared, regardless of the number of persons involved, to apply the Dutch law and, if possible, to withdraw their residence permit? Persons had to be repatriated and Dutch soldiers carried out dangerous missions. The cost was high. It is reasonable for the Secretary of State to require repatriated status holders to contribute to the cost of their own evacuation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u234	Before you go downstairs, there is an interruption by Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u235	I saw Mr Eppink startled. That won't be necessary. I heard Mr Eppink say'status holders' in plural. But it's become known that it's one person. Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u236	So far it is one, officially, but many are still checking. During a round table that we had, I believe under your leadership with Defence experts, the IND official said that there were 1,200 Dutch people in Afghanistan, of whom three were fourth, 75%, Afghans with a Dutch passport or status holders. So that assumes that it's not just that one, but that the number will grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u237	Well, that's obvious, but it's been clearly communicated that it's one person, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u238	Yeah, and it's also obvious... Here I say that this is a larger group. I would like to quote the IND official: three quarters of 1,200 is 900. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u239	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV. I just saw him leave the room. I want to ask the messenger... Look, there he is. I call Mr De Roon of the PVV. I thought you were running away. Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u240	Mr President, thank you: 20 years of failed Afghanistan policy was compressed into a single appeal by Minister Kaag two weeks ago. When the Taliban were already pushing terrorists to form a government, she came up with the silly message that the Taliban government should of course be included for a while. What kind of fairy tale world do you live in when you come up with such a naive call? I can hardly believe it from a foreign minister. Mr. Chairman. Forming an inclusive government was a prerequisite for the resumption of the 200 million euros of Dutch aid. But I would like to ask why this is not a definitive conclusion, since it turns out that this Taliban government, also officially, is anything but inclusive. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. What is also striking is how much the cabinet has underestimated the speed with which the collapse of Afghan authority could take place. The speed of the collapse and the meltdown of the Afghan security forces was underestimated, how quickly the Afghan president would leave was not seen, and how quickly the Taliban would take over, there was no idea. The STIVD came only two days before the fall of Kabul with a really serious warning. I must say that the outgoing cabinet is entirely responsible for the chaos after the collapse of Afghanistan. Typical was the way in which directors acted apathically and with disinterest while the Taliban steamed up. At the moment the Taliban stood in front of Kabul's city gates, Minister of Defence Bijleveld sat cozyly in the cinema. Just a moment later, when the Afghan president fled the country like a hare and the Taliban took the capital Kabul hostage, Mr Kaag had a cozy dinner with a number of political parties. Meanwhile, it was increasingly fearful embassy staff in Kabul sent from the cabinet to the wall and the ministries in The Hague were hardly accessible. By now, we know that Minister Kaag knew, or should have known in July, that French evacuation plans had been speedy, but they were ignored because the Netherlands wanted to be in line with other EU countries. Thus, the national interest fell under the EU interest. Minister Kaag told the truth about this, whether intentionally or not, by pretending that a rapid French evacuation did not exist at all. I would like some clarification on this matter by the Foreign Minister. At least it made the decline complete. 23,000 Afghans have now applied for asylum, as we can assume. Partly this group has been encouraged by political parties and leaders who have put us in this situation. First, only Afghan interpreters would come and a dozen other professions have been added. No wonder the foreign affairs servers were smoking because of the wave of asylum applications, caused by a chamber motion that reads as a Dutch version of Angela Merkel's "wir purchase tie," but with a stamp of D66 on it. The influx is so large that even the UN is now being called on to deal with the mountain applications. So far the Netherlands has sunk, that our migration policy is being put in the hands of people who have nothing with the Netherlands by the squabbling cabinet. That is really unacceptable and must stop immediately. I should also like to hear a detailed response from the cabinet on this point. When the Taliban swallowed up one Afghan district after another, hundreds of Afghans chose to leave the safe Netherlands for a vacation or family visit in Afghanistan. Despite the negative travel advice that has been valid for Afghanistan since the last century, despite Corona, despite repeated calls not to go above all, they went anyway. Even asylum status holders booked a flight ticket to the Islamic Emirate in establishment. We're just being fooled and cheated. Partly for this reason, the PVV does not want to contribute in any way to the inclusion of Afghan refugees in the Netherlands. We want the borders to be closed. We say: do not get Afghans running to the Netherlands, but take care of the region. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u241	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Finally, we will go to Mr Omtzigt for his contribution. I got some e-mails that I didn't pronounce the "t" after your name earlier. Hence my articulation now: OmtzigT. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u242	Yes, Mr President, that is not special; it happens more often. Mr. Chairman. Aldous Huxley said it: that men do not learn very much from the lessons of history, is the most important of all lessons of history. And so is this place. We've had a parliamentary survey after Srebrenica. It concluded that there was no worst-case scenario, as Minister Voorhoeve also said to respond to the consequences. If you still have to plan when the house collapses, you're too late, too late, too late, I'll tell the minister. Now that all these scenarios have been sent to the Chamber, but secretly the most vile thing that can happen, because if I go to read them, I can't ask any more questions about them. What were the scenarios and what assumptions are they based on? What was the most likely scenario and what was the worst case scenario? Have those scenarios been revised, for example when STUDY said Kabul was going to fall, for example when the Chamber said more people needed to be evacuated? Two. How was operational planning? Was it specifically worked out or was it a vague story? Who were we responsible for? Were there any lists of names? How could it happen that until the last moment the Netherlands thought that perhaps 250 people had to be evacuated, while there were over 1,000, even in the most conservative estimate? Was there even an operational plan that could be implemented? Were there any escape routes drawn out? Was the Chamber's motion on interpretation taken into account? How did the planning go with what really happened? Three. Who was in charge? What Ministry? Who decided what scenario we were in, and when did that happen? Who gave the order not to evacuate and who gave it much too late? Who actually sent that evacuation operationally? May I have the records of the last six months of the DOD, State Department and Justice and Security consultations? Because, of course, those ministries have talked a lot. Mr. Chairman. Finally, two questions. Are we planning ahead to ensure that Afghanistan does not collapse completely and then we sit with our hands in it when 10 million people are fleeing and no one knows where they are going? Two. The cabinet is going to evaluate itself; the flight ahead. I would like to see here in advance the research questions and the names of those who are planned to do it. Finally, Mr President, a genuine question. Do Minister Kaag and Prime Minister Rutte trust each other enough and have their relationship, which seems icy when you sit on the bank in Enschede, led to good cooperation or less good cooperation in this file?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u243	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. There's another interruption of... Oh, no, it's just a walk through the plenary room. That is a good thing, because the directors have indicated that they need about an hour and a half to prepare themselves properly. A lot of questions have been asked. I shall therefore suspend the sitting until 7.30 p.m. Mrs. Belhaj?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u244	Despite the fact that I did not support Mr Omtzigt's request, simply because of the reason why I wanted to have the debate today and to prevent us from waiting any longer, the question has now been asked. I am not in the mood for us to suspend the debate in the meantime because then we will have those documents. I would prefer that we suspend the cabinet once, give it an hour and a half, but if necessary we shall suspend until 8 p.m. than Mr Omtzigt says at 9.30 p.m.: I would now like to suspend for half an hour. Not to be annoying, but I'd rather we do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u245	Your request has been passed on. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u246	I think that's a good suggestion. I would appreciate it if we could get as factual a summary of the scenarios and operational details as possible before 7 p.m. so that we can check whether what was planned has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u247	Thank you. What I'm going to do is suspend until 7:30. Mr Omtzigt's request was dismissed from the cabinet. I think it's okay to see where we stand at 7:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u248	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the situation in Afghanistan. The directors have informed me that they will honour the request from the House of Representatives in order. We start with the Foreign Minister, then we go to the Secretary of Defense, then we go to the Secretary of State and we close with the Prime Minister. I'd like to ask the MPs to do the interruptions in half. I don't want to limit them. But if we stay in the same place for too long at some point, I'm going to say something about that. I would also like to ask you whether the Ministers, the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister can finish the blocks. The Foreign Minister has four blocks... and that after each block we give all the space to intervene. Then we'll keep the overview. Thank you for your cooperation. Then we have Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u249	Thank you, Mr President. We did get a letter with an evacuation plan. It was two sides with four phases. The evacuation plan that was in place concerned only embassy personnel, the embassy's local staff. But the interpreters weren't in there. That wasn't the policeman's interpreters. There weren't any other local staff in there. Only a few people with a Dutch passport were assumed, but that turned out to be many hundreds. Is this the whole plan or was there a second plan for the evacuation? If there was no evacuation plan for interpreters on 9 August, then I begin to understand why it didn't work. Is there any other plan we should have?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u250	Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Minister to answer your question in this way. Before the Minister responds, I just wanted to say that the Foreign Minister has four blocks: 1. the organisation of the evacuation, 2. the implementation of the Belhaj motion, 3. the evaluation and 4. international contacts. That's the four cubes. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister to answer Mr Omtzigt's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u251	I assume there's another plan somewhere on paper. I would be very, very surprised if there was no plan for the interpreters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u252	Do you mind if I give the Minister a chance to respond? The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u253	Good evening, Madam President and members of this committee. I am of course happy to be here, also on behalf of the cabinet. A lot of questions have been asked and very critical comments have been made. We will, of course, do our best to provide the best possible response. I think that some of Mr Omtzigt's questions come back in the cubes as they are partly divided between Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. I think the key question... was there an evacuation plan for interpreters? This is partly answered if we look at what got us all mugged. I'd like to finish that first block, my first block of my own. That is perhaps the time to ask again what plans were appropriate for an unprecedented situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u254	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u255	Mr. Chairman. As I said, a lot of questions have been asked and very critical remarks made. I would like to comment on that. I don't know... I'll read them again at the beginning of the cubes pro rememorial. I will appoint the organization evacuations, the implementation of motion Belhaj, the evaluation and other related questions, international contacts and the talks, including with UNHCR and IOM. The Minister of Defence will discuss everything concerning the interpreters, the information position including the STUDY and all other matters that explicitly concern the Ministry of Defence: the operational aspects of the evacuations, the flights and the role that Defence has played in this process. The Secretary of State for JenV will discuss asylum procedures, the screening of potential refugees and all questions about reception in the region, including housing. The Prime Minister will discuss the direction of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words first. On behalf of the cabinet, I would like to express our deep respect for our people in Kabul and the extremely difficult circumstances referred to by many of you in this Chamber, in which they operated. We also express our respect, but also our gratitude for the great involvement of Members of this Chamber, in particular Mr Boswijk, and for their commitment to the crisis and also during the acute crisis. Unfortunately, we are all familiar with the images: Dutch people who were trapped, Afghan interpreters and human rights representatives standing in an open sewer and sometimes, when you saw it on camera, waving an orange scarf, always fearing for their lives and afraid that they wouldn't reach the airport anyway and that they wouldn't get in, sometimes after several attempts. The total despair of people going through true hell to put their families to safety. I think that will leave us all many sleepless nights. Our people in Kabul, I repeat, Foreign and Defence Ministers did what many of us would not dare or could not do. They did it with danger for their own life and around the clock. It may not be known, but the Netherlands was the only country that worked 24 hours. Just in the middle of the night, our team had managed, after a catch-up, to bring hundreds of people to the airport. The terrible bombing on the last day we were awarded for the evacuation was near the place where they could still move some people over the wall of the airport. They also had to make life-defining decisions every time in a few seconds. That's a huge moral burden for a lot of people. But despite that pressure and a race against the clock, they've evacuated over 2,100 people. In the same time, the French evacuated 2,600 people with much more capacity. It is a huge achievement under high pressure and in terrible conditions. They have combined strength with inventiveness. I never thought we'd get a "Holland spot." That was the sewer route, but it was relatively the safest way to the airport. On other roads, people are crushed to death. We also know those messages. There were little kids there, too. The gateway that the Netherlands, the men of Defense, found, they discreetly guarded. Anyone who was in contact via WhatsApp also knew "secret" I find a wrong word to keep that discrete information. It was a tricky route, it was a dirty route and it was a tricky route, but it could be used. Our team in Kabul was supported by call teams in The Hague. Hundreds of volunteers from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, people who normally do, for example, Yemen or who have to write climate and energy plans, reported in. We didn't even have to make a call: 330 people at the top of the crisis also worked day and night at the Ministry in close cooperation with the Ministry of Defence. These often young people, young and old, under supervision, have also had a hard time with it, because they coached people through the sewers. I literally stood there at night and listened to colleagues who said, "You can do it! You can do it! Don't turn down! No, no, no!'. With a ticket from a city they'd never been to, with a WhatsApp contact. Desperate if the connection was broken. I think Mr Boswijk recognizes that as well. And just coach and talk until they did. I have deep respect for that too, because it was voluntary, but it was also involvement. And it doesn't just grace the Ministry. It adorns the Netherlands. We'll answer for the evacuation. And again, with great appreciation for all those who have worked there. The evaluation will teach us many bitter lessons, but it will also show that good and important work has been done against the beers, and that there is a need to have a sense of reality about the circumstances of what we have done and not been able to do. Because what couldn't we have done? We acted on false assumptions. This is a very bitter fact, a bitter observation. The Netherlands is not alone in this. All countries, the United States first, have acted on false assumptions. That's bitter. There are five, as far as I'm concerned. The speed of the rise of the Taliban, despite reports. The timetable with which the advance took place and took place has even surprised the Taliban itself. That's a strange fact. The relative weakness of the Afghan armed forces. Before I was Minister of Foreign Affairs, I took office at the end of May, and rightly so, there will be a lot of debate here about the investment in the Afghan armed forces, the importance that we leave behind. But the relative weakness, or rather not fighting the Taliban, was, of course, a disappointment, so to speak. Three. The assumption that Kabul could last a while longer, although many parts of the country had already fallen into the hands of the Taliban. The speed at which the city would fall was a false assumption. We didn't see that. The fourth wrong assumption on the part of the cabinet were the risks around and concerning the airport. And five, and this must also be said, also from ally-based relationships: the great degree of dependence, for everything that was going on in Afghanistan, for the United States. The choice and moments of departure, access to the airport, which day you were allowed to work there or not, that was all determined by the dependence of the United States, to the extent that our absence has become totally dependent on decisions taken in Washington. This has damaged the evacuation planning. So this has hit people. This has also caused people to be left behind. The only thing that really needs to be said here is that all countries are affected by this. There's no one, unfortunately, who's really better off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u256	Let me take a look at Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u257	I'm almost at the end of my block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u258	We agreed to do this after the block of interruptions. The minister's almost ready. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u259	Until very late, in the middle of the struggle, was widely accepted, including in talks with the Americans at the level of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, that countries would be given the time until 31 August. The Netherlands finally got the time lock August 26th. There's been lobbying. There's been talk. The Prime Minister, everyone and everything, has called, attended meetings, put pressure on: please, don't, give us more time, we can do much more. We were not allowed to do this. The planning itself originally consisted of 250 to 300 people who had to be evacuated from Afghanistan in the final phase. Those were the Dutch and local staff of the embassy. For the local staff, the planning was for them to leave in stages. In the end, the last person to leave must always be the ambassador. At that time, there was only fame around a handful of registered Dutchmen in Afghanistan, a number of Swiss people who were on the basis of appointments and about thirty Hungarian guards from the embassy. Mr Omtzigt's question was partly answered by Mr Omtzigt on the basis of false assumptions that the interpreters could still be taken to the Netherlands on commercial flights. The same commitment was made for our local staff. The flights for those who had the complete documentation were also all booked for the week of 16 August. But history has taught us that all these plans have not been possible. We were also faced there was referred to it with a substantial number of Dutch and Dutch residents who were still in the country when the crisis broke out. There weren't ten people registered yet. People are not, I must say, obliged to register with the Dutch embassy when they go on holiday or move to another country, but there has been a negative travel advice to go to Afghanistan for years. If you are in such countries, it is highly desirable for the embassy to know that you are there in case you need consular help. So there was a big gap between knowledge and information and accessibility. There are still many hundreds of Dutch or residents in Afghanistan, more than expected, but they are our consular priority. A third point remains the Afghans who have been visible to Dutch programmes and projects: employees of development projects, human rights representatives, women's rights representatives and fixers, as it is called, of journalists. And yes, we received signals from Dutch society about the acute and poignant situation in which they were hit or threatened to hit. We have talked to your Chamber for many years about the organised departure of interpreters and other staff. I believe that little has been said about the broader picture. We have made the wrong assumptions. The Belhaj motion of 17 August anchored the desire of the cabinet to help the wider group of vulnerable people in an evacuation or safe departure to the Netherlands. Our efforts continue, even after the airport closes for evacuation flights. I will come back to that. We keep in active contact with Dutch people, interpreters and other people who would be eligible for this in accordance with the Belhaj motion. In this case 70 people have been called who have not been able to reach the airport. They have high priority. I'll stop, because the rest is about international conversations and appointments. That may not be the most interesting part for some Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u260	Thank you, Minister. There are some interruptions. First, Mr Kuzu van DENK, then Mrs Van der Plas van BBB and then Mrs Piri van de PvdA. First of all, Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u261	We hear here the story of the Foreign Minister about the wrong assumptions that have been made. We have, of course, also received a factual account. On the one hand, I think that this actually contains nice information, but on the other hand it is a piece of political breast-knocking: look how well we have done it! I can see the Minister shaking no, but I said, on the one hand and on the other. She can respond to that later. Here's what I'm wondering. In January 2021, STIVD said that maintaining the Afghan Republic would be highly unlikely and that it was likely that the Taliban would increase their influence. Kabul's fall was August 15th. How does the Minister explain that so little has happened in the intervening period to ensure that we bring people here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u262	That is a very fair question, and of course that is something that concerns me. What did we miss? How can it be? That is a question that concerns all the foreign and defence ministers in the Western world and those who have committed themselves to Afghanistan. That is the great question of responsibility. Minister Bijleveld will go into the details. Perhaps there are more details that can be shared publicly regarding the STUDY. STIVD indicated that the Taliban would expand their influence and take steps to establish an emirate, but that intelligence was not tied to a concrete timeline. The same STIVD estimated even shortly before the fall of Kabul that an intake of Kabul would last a few months. This is also confirmed by U.S. intelligence. You may know the articles of July this year. Unfortunately, all countries were wrong. That is a big problem and we must learn from it. This has partly caused us to act too late and on the wrong assumptions, namely that we could still fly from Kabul, that the interpreters could leave commercially, that local embassy staff could leave in stages, quietly and orderlyly and that non-essential staff and their family members could go to the Netherlands. I'll be back on the local embassy staff. This is the crux; you are right. I hate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u263	In any case, we share that it is terrible, but I am very curious about the way in which those assumptions have been made. We see in the facts and in today's Volkskrant report that signals have indeed been sent from local embassy staff pointing to a deteriorating situation. They already do that in April and May 2021. We also see that the STUDY is right in saying that Kabul would fall into the hands of the Taliban within 90 days. That's also in the facts. That was claimed at the beginning of August. From early August to August 12, we saw Kandahar, Mazar-e-Sharif and Herat fall into the hands of the Taliban. Didn't go anywhere, but then nowhere in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs perhaps Minister Bijleveld will be able to reply to that later too: "The situation is getting worse. We really need to adjust the assumption we have now"? Didn't that ever happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u264	The hard reality is that this has not happened to us in the Netherlands or in other countries. That's correct. That is the harsh reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u265	We're doing two-way interruptions, but if you still have a very short question, you can finish your interruption with the permission of the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u266	That is very kind of my colleagues, Mr President. But that can then be based on information from intelligence agencies and so on. We had a committee debate with the Minister of Defence on 14 April 2021 concerning the extension of the mission in Afghanistan. That's where I quoted from The New York Times. "Celebrate the Taliban party" was the headline of the newspaper at that time. They themselves explicitly indicated that they would advance if the Western coalition withdrew the troops. You can't have a clearer signal, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u267	As I said before, the problem is that we all now have very painful moving insights. I understand very well the logic of Mr Kuzu's question. 'Cause what did we miss? This is an important question not only for the intelligence services but also for our decision-making processes. Didn't we pick up the signals correctly? By the way, we didn't catch them all right, because all NATO alliance members were overwhelmed and so were the Americans themselves. The decision was taken, but they had this terrible bad execution when it comes to evacuations clearly not planned. The same actually applies to all other countries participating in Operation Resolute Support or who previously had a diplomatic presence there. The question is indeed: what have we missed? What was our intelligence position? How do we use the data? And how do we ask that question in a different way? But I think Mrs. Bijleveld will come back to that. The problem is that the assumption was: Kabul will not fall so quickly; we can achieve everything before the Taliban Kabul reach. You're absolutely right: if you saw that domino effect... But the answer, also from the military, of the Americans themselves, was: no, in Kabul and yet another big city I'm not sure which one of them is going to hold the Afghan army and they will fight back there; that's not going to happen so fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u268	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. Then Mrs Piri of the PvdA, then Mr Cedar of the Christian Union, then Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then Mr Jasper van Dijk. First of all, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u269	I just heard the Minister say something about the wrong assumptions that have been made. One of the assumptions mentioned when it comes to the question of what went wrong was the high degree of dependence on the United States. I specifically asked for this, first in the committee debate. I asked: do we have anything to say about our own people? Then I asked that again because the Minister said at that time: we fit humility. Then I specifically asked: what does humility mean, and what consequences does humility have for the people sitting there? Then I got an answer from the Minister. Let me summarize this briefly. She said: "Mrs Van der Plas, I have participated in missions for many years as a diplomat. That's when your humility fits. When people are busy there, you shouldn't go through it like an elephant in a porcelain cabinet, so to speak. Then you should be humble as a country." I asked again: but what does that mean, and what is that effect? Now I hear the Minister say that this is part of the five things that have gone wrong. I would like to hear from the Minister how she now reflects on those answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u270	As Mrs Van der Plas can do very well... I would also like to learn...................................................................................................................................................................................... I believe that we have been asked in a run-off about how we judge how we act, the situation and the chaos there. I think I said that humility fits here, because we are too far away. In other words, the best sailors are on shore, and I'm not gonna lend myself to that. It's the same with the information position. It appears that we have had too much dependence on the Americans in decision-making. They shared the data. At the same time, I have just mentioned that it has appeared that we around the airport had no choice if we wanted to leave. We were lucky to join the later group of countries, but the Belgians had to a day earlier. They have called us down, and rightly so, to ask: there are still Belgians and our mission is not finished; can you people there help those people again? Humility always fits when you're not in the war or crisis area itself, and I've said it all the time. I see Mr Boswijk nodding, because he understands exactly what I mean. It is easy to judge, but out of respect for the people who do the work and because of the fact that we are smaller, humility fits. We're dependent. I also believe that it was said in that same debate that we had to force all kinds of things on the Americans. Well, sorry. Look at us, at our size. We're pretty important, but they're not gonna meet all our demands one-on-one. That is reality, and humility also fits there. That's how I make my comments, but I'm going to read again myself what was said and what was said in the interview. Then I have an accurate reconstruction of the different elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u271	A few things. The minister starts with a sneer, like: yes, Mrs Van der Plas then reads some interviews and takes some together and then yells something. She didn't say it literally, but that's how it looks. Where I get my information doesn't matter at all. It doesn't matter at all whether I get it out of an interview or get it directly from someone else. I'm just doing my job here and I'm just asking questions. In that committee debate, I specifically asked about the role of America. I also asked if we have anything to say about people. There was actually some kind of answer around that. The same goes for humility. Then there will be a whole argument, a very woolly answer. We have the Debat Direct app so you can just look that back. But that was also specifically about America. And now I hear the Minister say something else, namely that that was one of those crucial mistakes. But it was known then, wasn't it? Well, that's not a weird question I'm asking at the time, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u272	I mentioned five misconceptions, and I'm sticking to that. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u273	I think we all agree in this Chamber that it was not the local people, the diplomats, the military and the people who worked day and night in all ministries. I would be careful to pass out pats on the back for the way in which the cabinet has taken political responsibility. I also have to say that I find it rather difficult that a genuine sense of repentance is lacking for all those people who have worked for us in all those years we have been in Afghanistan and who we are now abandoning. I miss that. But having said that, we now know that STUDY has been warning for months that the Taliban could take over power. I can see in the facts that a new evacuation plan was made in May following a visit by the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. And that plan also states that the scenario of the departure of the Afghan government and the termination of commercial flights from Kabul is also taken into account. We are now talking about early May. I shall come back to Mr Omtzigt's question. At that time, dozens of our interpreters and their families are still in Afghanistan. Is there not an evacuation plan in which the interpreters would disappear to the Netherlands in time? We knew that one of the scenarios we were working with was: the airport is closing down and it may be that the Afghan government is going to fall too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u274	No. That is, of course, one of the difficult lessons we will have to draw. Have we included the overall picture in all evacuation plans at the right moments? As Mrs Piri may also know, the embassy has planned for the evacuation of local staff and family members, for its own staff. The standard procedure at the Foreign Office is normally that only the staff deployed are evacuated. Exceptionally, local staff, regardless of their long relationship with the embassy, are helped to temporarily move to a country in the region. But we've never evacuated people to the Netherlands, this is unique. And for good reason and good reason, I'm not doing anything about it, far from it. But I think that there too some elements have been missed in the planning and scenarios in the assumptions. I really need to go through all the plans with the team, including for the evaluation. But I said 'under the wrong assumptions' and that is something we really hate, and you will hear the other cabinet members too. That's remorse, but the worst part is that we don't solve it and we don't make it better. I hate that much more. The assumptions of the planning plan, and this has been discussed for many years, have still assumed that we had enough time to allow the people, especially the interpreters and their family members, to leave on commercial flights. That is, of course, a big part of the mistakes that have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u275	I understand, of course, what the Minister says about the embassy's evacuation plans. But we're having a conversation with the Cabinet here. We didn't just ask for an evacuation plan from the local embassy staff. In fact, on 3 June the cabinet adopted a motion, it was not even put to the vote: there will be a special evacuation plan for the interpreters. Five weeks later, we asked your colleague Mr Bijleveld again if there was an evaluation plan for the interpreters on 8 June. Her literal answer was: "Yes, that was made, because that was one of the parts of the motion." Where was that evaluation plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u276	I'd like to come back to a few parts about evacuation planning. Furthermore, as indicated by Mrs Bijleveld, there will be a supplement on the subject of interpretation, and as regards foreign affairs as a coordinating ministry, I would like to return to the details of a number of points of evacuation planning in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u277	Finally, Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u278	So my conclusion is that there was no evaluation plan for the interpreters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u279	Mrs Bijleveld will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u280	Mrs Bijleveld will come back to that in a moment. Then I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u281	Thank you. On January 14th, STIVD already indicated that it is inevitable that the Taliban will move on to taking over the government. When is not known, but it is inevitable that they will take over the government. The Chamber was not aware of this. I understand that it's confidential information, I understand that it's sensitive, but the Chamber hasn't been informed confidentially either. In fact, I have had committee debates over the last few months and have also had letters from the Chamber, for example on 18 June, suggesting that it is only a question of whether the Taliban will take over the administration of the country. I believe from the letter of 18 January on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence that "the role of the Taliban in future Afghanistan and the involvement of international partners will have to crystallise according to the developments of the country." As if the cabinet didn't know it was inevitable that it would be taken over. Another sentence is: "It is really the question of how the Taliban will relate to the national government of Afghanistan and the community." Two questions. Do you think that the Chamber was not informed and should have had this information? And do you agree with me that the information contained in the letter of 18 June, on the basis of which the Chamber under which I made my own deliberations, is also incorrect? In fact, it gives a more rosy picture than on the basis of the information already known to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u282	I actually wanted to inform Mr Ceder that Mrs Bijleveld, as announced, first reflects the whole process in the blocks of information position and STUDY.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u283	That's what we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u284	Then I can come back to it in second term if I still have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u285	Yes, you asked the question in detail. The Minister has taken note of the question and will come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u286	My fear is a little... This letter is also on behalf of Foreign Affairs and the Minister also has independent authority as to what information she sends to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u287	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u288	I think it is important that this question is not only answered by the cabinet, but also separately by the ministers responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u289	But we have a block division and the Secretary of Defense will come back to it later. That's how it's prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u290	I would like to come back to it in the second term, but I think that in the context of information position, all the steps in this, the confidentiality of information and the position of the intelligence services is correct that Mrs Bijleveld first gives a good explanation. I will be happy to make my own judgement in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u291	Thank you. Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u292	Apart from the remark I would like to make that I do not think that the provision of information is a good thing and that I am sorry that it is all going to be this way at the last minute and that we all need to hear it from the Volkskrant, I can understand why things are different. It's all gone faster than anyone expected. That can happen. And that it's gonna be a panic situation and that you're gonna make mistakes under high pressure, I understand. But there's one more thing I want to know. On Saturday 14 August, the embassy staff was evacuated to the airport at night. Answer 14 explains why this happened on 14 August. On 16 August they leave for the Netherlands together. You just said that the last person to leave the country must be the ambassador. The captain will be the last to leave the ship. Who made the decision to ship the entire embassy staff with the ambassador to the Netherlands without being replaced?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u293	I'll get back to you on that. I'm starting the evacuation process now. If Mr Van Haga can wait for that, I can explain it in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u294	Okay, I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u295	It's a good thing that we do the cubes that way from the point of view of care. Mr De Roon was first, then Mrs Simons and then Mr Van Wijngaarden. Sorry, actually Mr. Jasper van Dijk was before Mr. De Roon, but well, Mr. De Roon is already there. Then Mr Jasper van Dijk. Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u296	I think it is commendable that the Minister admits that a lot of wrong assumptions have been made and that a lot of wrong assumptions have been made. The Minister wonders: what else could we have done? The first thing you can do as soon as you get information from others is ask yourself: how hard is this actually, can I now confirm what is claimed by others? I do not know if that has happened, but perhaps the Minister could shed more light on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u297	Mr De Roon means my five assumptions. I'll bring them in.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u298	Yes. The rapid disappearance, the melting away, as it were, of the Afghan security forces, is of course not a unique issue. We have seen this before, namely in Iraq. When ISIS invaded there from Syria, the Iraqi security forces just ran. They just weren't gonna fight. They didn't want to fight, because they were scared, or at least they didn't want to. With that experience in mind, you could of course already think: is this perhaps the same in Afghanistan? You could and should ask that question. I wonder if that's what happened. Maybe the Minister can say something about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u299	You have two questions? Do you want the Minister to answer the question you asked first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u300	Maybe it's okay if I finish my point. Then we have the picture completely on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u301	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u302	As I said to the government in April, don't stay in that crumbling fortress of Afghanistan until the last moment. It's just dangerous. You don't have to have studied higher martial arts for that. You know, when the troops retreat, there's always gonna be a dangerous moment when you can't oversee things. You don't know what might happen, so just get out of here before you do. That is what I said to the rulers in April. On July 8th I indicated again: it is now becoming really dangerous; pull the plug now. That's all blown in the wind. I think these are moments where as a cautious ruler you could also say: I should not wait until the last moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u303	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. That was an extensive reflection question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u304	I think Mr De Roon is right in asking whether I can support, on behalf of the cabinet and all of us, how hard and soft these false assumptions are. It's part of an orderly process. I also think that these are some of those questions for the evaluation. How wrong was our assessment? Should we have acted differently in the process or switched faster? What are we missing to bring the different points together? The progress of the Taliban has been confirmed by the Secretary-General of NATO, by Antony Blinken, the Secretary of State of the Americans, and by everyone involved at the highest political level. I think we can back that up. The second is the relative weakness of the Afghan armed forces. I know that Mr De Roon is not really in favour of sending troops abroad, or, for example, investing in the 3D approach; diplomacy, defence and in this case development cooperation. The weakness of the Afghan armed forces has surprised everyone. Mr De Roon may have foreseen it, but the international community and the countries that sent troops had expected more from training and from perseverance. I think your comparison with Iraq is a very interesting one. Unfortunately, the speed with which Kabul fell is a derivative of that. The chaos surrounding the airport and the risks, including the two attacks by ISIS-K, are very important. I don't think the Americans planned that very well. They didn't take us enough. It was just not in order, politely put. That's what we need to look at. We couldn't have foreseen that. It was an assumption that the airport would remain accessible. Those are all distractions. The bigger political question is how, as a smaller country and as a loyal ally who always wants to work closely with the Americans, we can strengthen our independent position, together with the EU countries, but also with NATO. You know it: many other countries were very happy with what happened here and with how the Americans handled their departure. That's what's hit us all. That is not even critical; that is a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u305	Finally, Mr President. I insist that it would have been wise to say: we are not going to wait and see if it is all reliable. You know, if it gets really exciting and difficult, the information you can get isn't always complete. That might not even be intentional. Just because of the stress of the situation you are not properly informed. That is why I have always said, and that is what I am holding on to: it would have been wiser to disappear at an earlier moment, when you see that phase is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u306	It's been noted. I wish we all had the wisdom. Then it would have been better. It's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u307	Thank you. Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP. Then there is Mrs Simons, Mr Van Wijngaarden and, in my view, Mr Boswijk. First of all, Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u308	I find the government's defence extremely weak. They say we made wrong assessments, but that's what everybody actually did. So there was nothing we could do about that; we were overwhelmed. In the last few days and weeks, Kabul was certainly overwhelmed by the Taliban. Don't argue about that. But you were given clear warnings a long time ago that action had to be taken: from the STUDY, from the Chamber and not to mention from the embassy. What does the minister of revelations think this morning in the Volkskrant? It says that the embassy has made several emergency calls: make a plan for us, help us out of this and no longer wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u309	I will come back to the evacuation of the embassy and everything in that regard, the careful consultation that has taken place over a very long period of time, certainly already done by my colleague, Minister Blok, former Foreign Minister, and the follow-up we have wanted to give to it. But this is not a defense; this is an explanation of how things could have gone so wrong in the end. If I note that other countries, most of Europe and even the Americans themselves, have been overwhelmed on the basis of false assumptions, then that is not an excuse, but a sad observation. It is also something I deeply regret and regret. But it's the hard reality. It's not a defense. It is, I think, an explanation. We can support that, too. In the international comparison requested by Mr Van Wijngaarden, you can see that France, for example, has started evacuations a little earlier, but still has 11,000 people to get out of Afghanistan. Germany, with a much larger presence. The United Kingdom. We can simply provide these figures, but I think it would be better for this to be independently tested and supported. It's not a defense. It's horrible, but unfortunately it's the way it is. Mistakes have been made on the basis of false assumptions. We can't turn back the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u310	It's not reality. It's a smokescreen. It is a political reality which the government has outlined for itself and which we are now supposed to believe. Its purpose is: we were overwhelmed, we could not do as much about it, like other countries. Well, that remains to be seen. France and England were already more concerned with evacuations. Interesting, by the way, to check with the embassy that they have not been warned recently by their British and French colleagues. The cabinet failed, was far too late to pick up the people, bringing them to safety. Do you share the view that you have failed to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u311	I don't think we were able to complete the mission and execute it as we wanted. To call this a total failure, given the figures on the other side, I do not. That we have not been able to act in time, I feel very responsible for that, like all the other members of the cabinet. But a total failure would ignore the 2,100 people saved in the short term, all local embassy staff, their core families and 60 other dependent residents who have also been evacuated. And we are in the process of implementing the Belhaj motion, hopefully in a thorough manner. To call this a total failure, I find, frankly, a sacrifice by everyone who has worked so hard here. It's not about us; it's not about the cabinet. But all employees have not failed. They have still achieved a fantastic result, against all obstacles. But it's not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u312	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u313	Let's get this misunderstanding out of the way. I don't shit anybody. The people have worked hard, the ambassador in the first place. In fact, the ambassador was put away very hard by the cabinet, which was only allowed to bring 3 of the 60 people home. We'll get back to you on that. Those people have worked hard, the cabinet has failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u314	Following on from Mr Van Dijk: I too am very curious about the evacuation and how people can be asked to select 3 of the 60 evacuation candidates. That puzzles me, but that's an anglicism. I shall continue with Mr Van Dijk's questions. I hear the Minister say: we have not been able. But you haven't. Those are two different things. We have acted on the basis of false assumptions. If you think it's gonna be nice today and put on your slippers, you make a wrong assumption, but it turns out it's gonna rain. I don't think that's a good idea. But if you have been reminded by the Chamber for years of the importance of an evacuation plan, of the importance of the good framework of the groups that should belong to it, then you cannot say today: we would have wanted to, but we could not have. That's not an active language. That's the language of: I don't want to take responsibility. So those false assumptions are based on something. I am curious to see what these false assumptions are based on, while at least the Minister has a better information position than the Chamber. The Chamber was alert enough to ask the right questions in time and to ask the right plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u315	I don't know if there are a few things that are mixed up here. Mrs Simons said the Chamber has been asking for evacuation plans for years. The Belhaj motion was adopted in the middle of the crisis, I believe on 17 August. We've been acting on that. All years before this, since 2014................................................................................................................................................................................................. I have to come back in second place to when and in what year was asked for a wider evacuation of others. It is important to bear that in mind. The second is that we acted on false assumptions. We're responsible for that. That assumption was the speed of the rise of the Taliban. We're not alone in that. Is that an explanation? No. But it is just as it is: the relative weakness of the armed forces. A total overestimate has been made by the entire Western defense establishment "Excuse for the word "for how long" they could or wanted to stand. The fall of Kabul was not foreseen by the Americans in this way either. If the Chamber knew this a long time ago, we clearly did not catch those signals. But this isn't the case, it didn't happen that way. If we had known before, it would have been worse and we would have acted sooner. We seem to have had a whole blind spot in how bad and how fast it would get. But that's a shared knowledge deficit. It is also a question for all intelligence services: what are we missing from the analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u316	It remains to be seen that the Belhaj motion had to ask for sufficient attention and urgency with regard to the interpreters. This group has been described in greater detail in the motion, but it is not the case that everything was fully arranged for the interpreters and that the Belhaj motion attached additional groups to it. I do not think that argument is very strong. I also think it is very serious, well, let me use the word 'admirable' that the Minister here says that we have had a total blind spot here. That is a great deal for the rulers sitting here, namely the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence, the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister. I think that's a rather spicy observation. My question therefore remains: how can this be done, with all the information you do have and not with the Chamber? Even if the Chamber asks for it, she doesn't get the information, and if she gets it, then it's too late for a part of it to be wiped out. I find it difficult to believe, and Mr Van Dijk also said that France and England at least had a different attitude and that they might have a slightly smaller blind spot. But how can it be that there are four rulers here who say: we really had no idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u317	I'm referring again. The Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, has been questioned by the United States Congress on the same subject for two days. How did it go so badly? Why did it turn out so bad? Why are there still people who have also had to leave the Americans in Afghanistan? What happened to the armed forces? We are part of an international community. We do not act alone and we depend on the information position of others. Together we draw these conclusions. In the second term, I would like to return to the comparisons with other countries that we have briefly collected. I fear that the French have not done much better than the Netherlands, nor have the British. Proportionally, we have been able to evacuate as many people as possible in a short time of crisis. The French started with a group of 600, because there were many more French in Afghanistan through the Alliance Française and all kinds of educational institutions. These are people who, according to French legislation, we do not have, have the right to evacuate to France. We do not even have that in the Netherlands. There are all kinds of parallels that don't always work when you're looking at France and the Netherlands. But if you look at Norway, Belgium, Switzerland and Germany, we are actually talking about the same confrontational situations, the same impotence and the same solutions that are sought under steam and boiling water. The independent evaluation will be able to demonstrate this very strongly. I'm really convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u318	Thank you. I'd like the interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u319	With all due respect, I'm not in a position to question the Norwegian cabinet, or the American, French or English cabinet. I can't do that. I can ask the Dutch Foreign Minister what conclusions she herself would draw, because 'we are dependent' can also mean 'we are dependent on'. That could be a conclusion. Then it's active again and then it's about its own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u320	I think I take responsibility, as well as the cabinet members, but I also think it is realistic to say that we have a modest military capacity. We have a very good intelligence position, but we are the seventeenth economy in Europe. We're not superpower. Sorry, we have a dependence on others. We work together in NATO and with EU countries. Of course, there is an exchange of knowledge and skills, but to pretend that we should have known even more than UN Security Council members, with a huge head start in contacts and intelligence services, is actually a not entirely right comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u321	Thank you. There are still a number of interruptions. Firstly, Mr Van Wijngaarden, then Mr Boswijk, then Mrs Teunissen, then Mr Dassen and then Mr Omtzigt. From now on, we're really gonna do the interruptions in half, because there's still a lot of cubes. Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u322	Maybe a point of order first. I don't want to take anyone to make their point, but I'm also just looking at the clock. In this respect, we always have ambitions. My proposal would be to try not to hold very long introductions to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u323	Let's set a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u324	I'm gonna do my best. Because, having said that, by the way... No, it's okay, all that context, rational approaches, figures and comparisons with other countries. Great. But the canary in the coal mine was a bit France in terms of intelligence. Has the Minister been informed of France's position? We got a piece on that. Has she contacted the French ambassador, for example? That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u325	No. As I've said publicly before, I wasn't aware. I wasn't informed about it either, but I'm responsible for the Ministry of Justice. So I've been informed, but not personally. My officials dealt with this and the ambassador had also reported, in discussions that I was preparing, that she and other EU Member States were all surprised by the French decision. I think you know, from the facts or from correspondence, that other countries, including the Netherlands, then looked at whether there were indicators that were different and different from those of the French. After that, my impression was that it didn't turn out to be. At that time, all countries decided not to proceed to evacuation at that time. Nor has the French offer been used. I believe that, in the case of the Netherlands, there were twenty seats on an aircraft. The countries decided to go further together, because everyone collectively is talking about the canary in the coal mine, perhaps too much fortified each other in that assumption. After the message came out, I think two weeks ago, when I heard about it, I did ask for it at the Quai d'Orsay. The French themselves reported that they didn't actually have any other intelligence either, but it was such a large-scale operation for them, as I mentioned earlier, there were so many people who still had to leave the country that they had decided: let's get started. Well, after all, we should have done the same thing. But in the period when France evacuated 600 people from the country, the Netherlands evacuated 129 or 139: proportion of the size of the country, number of inhabitants; the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u326	I would like to refer to a number of comments that were made about half an hour ago. So it could be a little bit of a change of heart right now. First of all, I would like to make a comment about the Afghan army. It has been said a number of times, among others by Mr De Roon, that this has done nothing; I also heard the Minister drop something like that. However, I would like to correct that the Afghan army, certainly in a number of places, has fought quite fiercely. And well, you can't fight if you don't have intelligence or ammo. Yet over the past few years, some 60,000 Afghans have been killed. Then my other point. The fact story on 21 August states that guiding through WhatsApp has been a success factor. The Minister said this, too. Can the Minister tell us at what time has it been decided to use WhatsApp as well? Because it has been quite clear that the one-sided communication via the mail did not really work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u327	I'm gonna come up with this in a couple of cubes. I'm gonna talk about the evacuation and then I'm gonna talk about the local staff and the implementation of the Belhaj motion. One of those cubes contains an explanation about the moments of using WhatsApp.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u328	Then we'll just wait and see, thank you very much. Then I have one more question. You just mentioned that there is contact with all the people, including those who are still there. But I get from contacts that people are stranded on Ramstein in Germany, for example, and can be put on a plane to the United States at any time, while they are on a Dutch list. How come these people are still not getting in touch with the State Department?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u329	I'll have to check. I can't answer that one-two-three. I'm not familiar with information about people trapped on Ramstein.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u330	It is good if the Minister comes back to that in the second term. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen and then to Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u331	I'm very curious about that evacuation...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u332	You're misunderstood. You must press the microphone properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u333	Yes. The pedal was pushed back, Mr. Chairman. I'm also very curious about that evacuation. It is quite remarkable that only a handful of people have been registered and in addition...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u334	Before you go any further, the Minister will be coming to the block about the evacuation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u335	Yeah, okay. I have another question, but this is the question that hangs over the market all the time. That's why I'm naming it. In addition, we have all these warnings, ladies and gentlemen, we have just mentioned STUDY, embassy staff, the Chamber, France, England. The Minister says that our actions were based on false assumptions. Then my question is: what is wrong with us basing ourselves on false assumptions rather than on all those warnings?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u336	I think it is quite right to refer to warnings from local staff. But they were of such a nature that they said: things are going badly in that land; the Taliban are advancing. STUDY is our intelligence service. He'll have to advise on that. It has said: yes, the Taliban are moving forward, but the timetable on which that happens is much slower, also on the basis of information from other intelligence services, than predicted. That is the most important framework for us. There are many references to France. I will ask if I can read from the text of a conversation with the Quai d'Orsay in the second term. The French confirmed that they had no intelligence position other than us, and they worked the same. They made a choice to evacuate earlier with one group of 600 because they just had so many more people to evacuate. They also stayed and were just as attacked as the Netherlands and every other country. It is not the case that all the other countries had long been out of the country and we were the only ones there at the airport, far from it. The entire international western community was robbed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u337	However, it remains to be seen that the Chamber has repeatedly warned about the interpreters, but that the cabinet has simply ignored them. Take also the emergency cries of the embassy staff; we were able to read about them this morning in the Volkskrant. Those beggings, they weren't just requests, they were made several times. Then there is something fundamentally wrong with how we look at a society in which we are dealing with a moving power, which we know does not just follow a timetable, and that we base ourselves on assumptions and not on those pleas of embassy staff. Apparently, we haven't taken them seriously enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u338	I'll get to the whole story about the local staff. However, I say that it is the first time in the history of the Netherlands that local employees from the country where they worked for the embassy are brought to the Netherlands, a recognition of the exceptional nature and need and the faithful services they have provided. But employees from Yemen are not brought to the Netherlands. Employees from Syria have not been evacuated to the Netherlands either. This is an exceptional situation. The cabinet has rightly decided to bring all people to the Netherlands. There was a long consultation with the employees. The plan was always that they could leave in phases with commercial flights booked for that purpose, in accordance with the same schedule that many other embassies have used.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u339	Thank you. Mr Dassen van Volt and then Mr Omtzigt, indeed with Mr Van Wijngaarden's request: not an introduction but a question. Then we can ask a lot of questions with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u340	We've been talking about wrong assumptions. I do have the question that Mrs Teunissen also raises: what are you doing with the signals you are getting? Many references are made to other countries that had the same assumptions and information. On 1 June there was also an emergency call to various NATO countries, including the Secretary-General, of 18 military trade unions from eight different countries. They clearly indicate: it is still 100 days until the Americans leave, but there are only 30 days left to really evacuate. Then I wonder: what has been done with such a signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u341	I have to come back to this in second term or Mrs Bijleveld. I'm not familiar with this signal and that date. I need to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u342	Would it be okay if the Minister returned to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u343	If I may have a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u344	Mr Dassen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u345	The letter was sent on the day that NATO Foreign Ministers and Defence Ministers also met. I wonder if that hasn't been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u346	We've discussed... I know what you're saying. There's been talk. The Netherlands also confirmed that we are doing Burden Sharing, sharing a number of employees we will include, who worked for a NATO mission, regardless of whether there was an employment with the Netherlands, this out of shared responsibility. But I would like to see the specific text of the call again and check with the officials where it was processed. But as it is clear, none of the countries, including the Netherlands, have acted more quickly. Because the planning for the evacuation of interpreters and local embassy staff continued in accordance with the possibility of commercial flights. So the signal, I'm sure, hasn't led to acceleration. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u347	But those are the choices I'm curious about: why wasn't that signal done?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u348	A clear question. The Minister has indicated that she will return to it in the second term. I'm just looking at...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u349	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u350	Let me take a look at Mr Kuzu on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are now debating each other for about an hour and five minutes. I heard the Foreign Minister refer five times in this one hour to the second term, eight times refer to Mrs Bijleveld and once lay the blame on the predecessor. I do not think this is the way to proceed; I would like to have said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u352	I'll take a look at Mrs. Piri. Any point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u353	Yes, there is also a point of order. We are having a debate here on the evaluation and also on how the cabinet acted. We are holding the debate on the basis of cubes. I guess people at home don't know what block we're at now. The danger is that everything will go to the second term and we will not be able to come back to things that have now been said. So please, do your best to answer first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u354	Let me look at the Minister to see if she can give the structure one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u355	Yes. Well, two things. All questions about the STUDY as indicated by the cubes are covered by Mrs Bijleveld's block. That is why I refer to Mrs Bijleveld, because she also talks about the interpreters, I say to Mr Kuzu. Should that add up to eight times, then so be it, but this was indicated in advance. Then there is Mr Dassen's question. I would like to read that specific call again and check with the officials where it has been or has not been incorporated into the system. Because I remember the Burden Sharing, but I don't know if there was any other reason for that information. Because I can say a lot of things here. I think we are quite clear where the cabinet did not do well, where it did and how it did, but I am also in favour of the fact that the Netherlands was not the only country in Kabul that was suddenly surprised. That's not true. It's a terrible observation, but we're really not the only ones. I think I'll create a little distance there. But what it means to people for whom we have a responsibility is, of course, something we all feel and experience very deeply. I hope to be able to talk about this when I come to the block of evaluation, the block of local staff, the Belhaj motion, and the block of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u356	Those are the cubes. Then we'll move on quickly. First of all, Mr Omtzig. Overruled, excuse me. I hear it in the hall. And then Mrs. Bromet. Thank you for correcting me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u357	Mr. Chairman. I'm surprised, because if I'm right, the State Department is ultimately responsible for the entire evacuation operation. Yeah? If that is responsible for the entire evacuation operation, then those interpreters cannot be pushed away. Because without an embassy, you can't contact anyone. If you evacuate the embassy staff, if you evacuate all the staff and the embassy security guards, there's no chance of removing interpreters. So it's a totally relevant question, isn't it? Are we talking to one government here or are we talking to three different departments that were all responsible for a pick of people? I think the Secretary of State is responsible. So can she tell us two things? What was done in the year before? 'Cause that one week of hard work, it's obvious to me. But there's been a lot of hard work because there's no plan in the year before, it seems. I hope to be convinced otherwise. Two. Was the State Department now responsible for giving the go/no go for that evacuation? Does that mean that the interpreters and so on had to be on the whole schedule, just like the Dutch who sat there from whom we didn't know they were there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u358	There are different paths. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the coordinating ministry. As soon as a military component is involved, as Mr Omtzigt knows, we always do so together with the Ministry of Defence. Military decision-making is entirely the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. We're following in on that. There's also a crisis debate. In the case of Afghanistan, it was a regular consultation that was scaled up with the involvement of the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, because there were several branches. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is coordinating, but there is no perseverance, as in other countries, so that I, for example, as Foreign Minister, can say: and now the troops are going there. You know that, too. That's a collaboration. The question is whether it is planned to evacuate interpreters last year. No. That was, in my opinion, an ongoing process. The interpreters were approached through the embassy for their documents. They were then sent to the D.O.D. and confirmed whether they had worked for them or not. JenV gave the approval and then a ticket was bought. Everything went through commercial flights. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has actively planned to evacuate local staff and staff and, of course, also in the course of the crisis, when it became clear that there was nothing else to do, of everyone under our responsibility, of our moral duty. Those are the interpreters and, of course, the Dutch and Dutch residents who were in Afghanistan, to help them return to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u359	Now I'm really curious about these maps. It is a crisis situation and one ministry deals with passports, the other with visas and laissez-passers and the third with military deployment. And then there's a prime minister somewhere, who'll tell us what it's about. You lose every war with that, every evacuation and every disaster coordination goes wrong with that. Lesson one: someone is ultimately responsible. We're not going to find out later that we can cut up exactly who was responsible for what evacuation? Then the plan didn't add up, did it? I want to see the plan. 'Cause that's when I understand the chaos.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u360	No. I'm describing that the State Department is coordinating. That's right. In its traditional role, Foreign Affairs does not deal with disaster relief. We do consular. But in this case, as with missions, we are coordinating. We bring the other leaders together in the context of the decision-making process. For example, when it comes to obtaining approval and authorisation for the evacuation of local personnel, which has never happened in the history of the Netherlands, that is a decision of the Council of Ministers. But the State Department remains coordinating. The embassy draws up the evacuation planning by default, as Mr Omtzigt knows, but there has been a change, of course, because in other countries we do not promote the evacuation of interpreters, the interpreters who worked for Defence. So you have close cooperation. I don't see that as anything weird. I see this as close cooperation, with agreements and also tasks to be fulfilled. Defense was the interpreter's employer, we're the employer of the local embassy staff, but we work together. And we're coordinating as the State Department. But there are specific tasks that only one ministry can fulfil, just as I am not dealing with the asylum procedure. But I'm reaching out to the names through my staff. We give the documentation to JenV to make a final assessment and give approval. It's not that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u361	Very briefly, Mr. Ommzigt, and then I'll go to Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u362	Depending on consultation structures in a crisis situation has resulted in hours, days of delay. We can see that. Germany had helicopters there, Norway was driving buses around the city, and the Netherlands was meeting about who to pick up and how to perform the interpreters. That's what we see here. How can it be? I asked who was ultimately responsible for the whole operation. I haven't heard an answer yet, except "the Council of Ministers." Should I conclude that there was actually no one to whom the final responsibility rested and who could say to a ministry: "It can all be so, but I want this now and we are going that way"? Or was there only the ambassador who, at some point, had the guts to say, "I'm just gonna drop off those laissez-passers, or those people won't get away"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u363	I think it is a very unfortunate picture that Mr Omtzigt sketches. I think it's compromising the stakes. We really weren't polding around here. At important moments when a brief consultation was to take place, ministers met. Furthermore, at a high level of administration and between the ministers and myself, in direct contact with Afghanistan, Kabul is constantly being discussed. All the lines that had to be pulled were pulled. I think it's a very unfortunate picture. It's not like it really happened. In every crisis situation, unless you're in charge of a military operation, there's a need for consultation. You know the same thing from the United Nations. OCHA is coordinating for humanitarian aid organisations, but all other UN organisations have their role: co-ordination of the many branches that need to come together. If you want to call that "final responsibility," then as coordinator, I am ultimately responsible. But I do depend on the great commitment of the Defense Department to the military component. Those soldiers are controlled by the military.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u364	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the coordinating ministry, also for the evacuations. We heard from the Minister in August that she was not aware that France had already started evacuations in July. She obviously wasn't aware of the... well, let me ask you as a question. Was she aware of France's offer to take evacuations on French flights? Did she also pass on that offer, as a coordinating minister, to her colleague in the Defense Department?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u365	No, I wasn't aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u366	But if information gets in the Ministry about a neighbour starting with evacuation, that neighbor says they have places left on their evacuation flight and they offer us to take people, isn't it very strange that that doesn't reach the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u367	Yeah, afterward you might say... I could be tough and say "if I had known, I would have said right away that we were going to do the same," but I don't know, because I didn't know. I'm not going to recreate a scenario. The balance that can be read back is more important, namely that all other countries, except France, stuck to the existing planning just like the Netherlands. Because of the number of people still to be evacuated, France started earlier. I have already mentioned that we have asked the French after I heard that such an operation had taken place. I asked how. The French themselves said: we had no other or better information; we just thought it was practical to start faster. No other country, except Australia, has followed their example. No other country. During the EU consultation, all countries, including the Netherlands, looked at the indicators. I think I mentioned that an hour ago. Something's changing? Are the French doing something we should do? The conclusion there, including from the Ambassador............................................................................................................................................................................................. That's what I've read in the pieces myself, or what I've read before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u368	I see the trend that we are now going to do interrupts in threes. I don't think we should do that, considering the time and the fact that the minister still has a number of cubes. I'd like your cooperation. I believe that Mr Ceder and Mrs Van der Plas have already been interrupting. A point of order? Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u369	I would like to suggest that we step away from the cubes, because those cubes beat the debate to death as far as I am concerned. Members of parliament are always sent back to their seats because it's in another block. I propose that the debate be conducted without cubes and that Members of Parliament ask questions whenever they wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u370	I think we agreed at the beginning of the debate that there are cubes. I do notice that it is sometimes difficult for Members of Parliament to stick to the block, but that does not mean that it is useful to delete the blocks, because then there is very little structure in them. So let's hang in there a little longer. I'm gonna take a look at the hall, too. I think there's support for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u371	We did agree to that, but you can always come back to your appointments. Hence my question as to whether we can get rid of it now. I'll ask the Chamber if she wants to. If the majority doesn't want to, then we know it. My question remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u372	Absolutely. I have looked at the Chamber for a moment and I think there is support to stick to the block. Let's give it another try. Mr Ceder has already asked a question in the first...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u373	That was about something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u374	Very briefly, Mr. Ceder. That goes for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is important, because it's about the French flight. The coordinating minister says she didn't know anything about it. At some point, you became known. When did this become known to you and why didn't you share it with the Chamber? Can you be specific about a date?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u376	Well, I don't know about that. I just need to ask when I'm gonna... I need to check that out. I'll wait for a written note and it'll tell me what date that was, but it was definitely in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u377	The Minister will return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u378	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u379	Sorry, in the first term. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u380	I said, I'm sure there'll be a note when I've been informed that this happened. I had a follow-up question put to the French about how this could be done, what they knew and so on. I just don't know the date, but I think it was August.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u381	The Minister will be back in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u382	I'd like to hear that in the first term. I had a question that was pushed forward. I hear the minister say: we were the coordinating ministry. I think that's relevant. In the evacuation plan agreed upon at Mr Omtzigt's request, the interpreters were not included. Was there any other evacuation plan for the interpreters, in accordance with Piri's adopted motion? It asked for an evacuation plan to be drawn up on the basis of the principle no man left behind. I know that Mrs Bijleveld is about the interpreters, but I ask my question about their existence to you as a coordinating minister. Was there or wasn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u383	The interpreters have been evacuated for years, as I have often said, by means of a so-called consular evacuation. They were transferred to the Netherlands by scheduled flights. The interpretation arrangements were in force until 15 August. The plan was that they could all leave the country before August 15th. You know that 15 August is also the date on which Kabul fell, so there was yet another false assumption. A wrong timeline was assumed. As of 15 August, the interpreters were included in the plans for an evacuation. You're asking if there's a separate evacuation plan. I'll confirm that in a moment, but it was only scheduled for scheduled flights. It was not in the form of a separate document, because the interpreters have been evacuated since 2014. They weren't taken as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u384	I'm going to see Mr Van Haga now. You've already had two interruptions. Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u385	I have one more interruption left in this block, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u386	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u387	Thank you. I still have a follow-up to Mr Omtzigt's question in order to get ready who was responsible. Because the minister just gave a bit of a flirt to "I'm probably ultimately responsible," but that has to be completely clear. It came out a little difficult, but it can't be other than that the responsibility lies beyond doubt with the State Department if, apart from a military attaché, there is no military line in Afghanistan anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u388	Yes. However, it is true that foreign affairs in Afghanistan will never be without a military presence, given the circumstances. But I understand the question. The coordinating minister is the minister responsible, but I also point out that we do this in consultation with others. But if you're looking for a final manager, you're looking at it, if you want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u389	Thank you. The Minister continues her speech. I think we're going to block two on the implementation of the Belhaj motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u390	No, block two is about the evacuation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u391	Oh, the evacuation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u392	No, I've been mixing it up now, too. It's about Belhaj and everything that's adjacent. Mrs. Belhaj asked how many times has been scaled up. She's referring to the consular services of the State Department. That was done three times: on Monday 16 August, following the adoption of the motion for a resolution, which was already on 17 August, in view of the enlargement of the group, and on 22 August for the last, most intensive evacuation phase. I mentioned earlier that at the height of 330 BZ employees were on 24-hour shifts and at that stage a lot of people were able to get to the gate. Mr Boswijk asked about the guidance of WhatsApp. The most effective part of the operation actually didn't come until August 21st. Then we managed to get large groups to the gate via WhatsApp, because normal access was no longer possible. For that people were called: come to the airport; do you need information? They were often called back, but because they were small numbers, they didn't go with whatsapp groups. But many hundreds have been helped. I am, of course, grateful to Mr Boswijk for his support. I am also grateful to other citizens who have taken initiatives. There were also many belhajers in the whatsapp groups, as we call them. I don't know if it's a name. The belhajers were also in those whatsapp groups. Before that, of course, the people were known. We still talked about interpreters and smaller groups of Dutch people who were still known back then. You also know that the number of Dutch really grew by the day. We started with seven that were registered. We thought it was going to be 150. Then it became 400, 600, 900. That also changed the State Department's modus operandi. There was a question from Mrs Piri and Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks. Diplomatic embassy staff were absent in the middle of the crisis, in this case 44 hours. The question was, did we miss opportunities? Indeed, they weren't in Kabul for 44 hours. Many of the countries that stayed were also unable to do anything during the same period of time. The airport was closed by the Americans for outgoing evacuation flights. You also know that the final decision of the temporary agent and the defence attaché was to judge whether they would follow the US instruction to leave or not. That looked like the last flight at the time and many other countries also got on that flight. It is therefore absolutely not correct to say that someone with the tail has left between the legs. It was an instruction, there was exhaustion and a new team was on their way. Fortunately, no opportunities were missed during that period, because the airport was closed for 48 hours and the new Dutch team had already flown out as soon as the old team left. The new team got grounded a little longer in Islamabad. This was simply due to transfer rules, including those of the Government of Pakistan. That was about guns. The next time in Kabul was used well; as soon as Ambassador Wijgers and her team landed, they immediately started working. Mr Boswijk asked a question about the United Kingdom's ambassador who, he said, had left stamps while the Dutch were being sent away with the right papers. I think I just mentioned it. According to our information, the British team was not present at the same time as the Netherlands was absent from the airport. The British also opted for rotation. In the first few days, many embassy teams have been completely robbed and we also needed additional military protection. That will be explained. Mr Van Haga asked: who took the decision to take the US aircraft, and which ministers were informed? As already stated in the facts, and as previously mentioned in the debate, it is ultimately the lead on the ground itself. In such a crisis, only local judgment can be reached. I've been briefed by the temporary agent and I wished him a good flight. In doing so, he also leaves there with the political support of the responsible minister. I informed the Secretary of Defense; we exchanged this. And I also informed the Prime Minister. The cabinet supports this decision. Of course, we would have preferred a so-called warm transfer. We would rather not have had a 44-hour gap, but we support the estimate that at that time the last flight would go. That was the final judgment of our temporary agent, and we fully support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u393	I'll see if the minister's at the end. Then we'll ask all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u394	No, not yet. I'll do it very quickly. What about the Dutch who are still in Afghanistan and what can we do? That was a question from Mrs Belhaj. We'll be in touch with them. We have the impression that there may still be about 475 people on the list, but the figure is fluctuating. People sometimes leave Afghanistan on their own or leave Afghanistan by another route, but we are systematically trying to check whether they are still there, where they are and whether they still need support. And I do not know if this has already started through the coverage, but another flight has left Pakistan with a number of people who have travelled to Pakistan on their own and have now received support through the Dutch consular service to come to the Netherlands. The Dutch and Dutch residents remain a priority. I have also travelled to Qatar and Turkey on this and in implementation of the Belhaj motion to ask for their support in facilitating the safe departure of all these people. But the airport is closed again, as you know. Then there was a question from Mr Dassen. Is it not true that high-risk countries always have evacuation plans ready, which are updated every year? Yes, it is. And in normal high-risk areas, if I may put it that way, this is, of course, done especially for the Dutch staff. I have already said that the Netherlands has never evacuated locally to the Netherlands. That is an exceptional but right decision. Mrs. Van der Plas asked how many times there had been contact with people who had to be evacuated since the departure. The aim was to have contact with all groups, interpreters, Dutch, people covered by the Belhaj motion, the "belhajers" in this case 70 people who couldn't reach the airport at least once a week, if not more, in recent weeks. So far, so good. Mr Van Dijk asked why there is no idea yet of the number of evacuations. On 14 September the stand was as follows: 1,879 people on the lists are in security outside Afghanistan; 1,764 people are still in Afghanistan. That figure is fluctuating all the time. I've already mentioned that a number of people have already left. Much has been said about the French. I don't think I need to say this again. I am waiting for the note to confirm when I was informed about the French evacuation planning. That was this block. I can get to the block of local staff. No, not yet. I'll do it very quickly. What about the Dutch who are still in Afghanistan and what can we do? That was a question from Mrs Belhaj. We'll be in touch with them. We have the impression that there may still be about 475 people on the list, but the figure is fluctuating. People sometimes leave Afghanistan on their own or leave Afghanistan by another route, but we are systematically trying to check whether they are still there, where they are and whether they still need support. And I do not know if this has already started through the coverage, but another flight has left Pakistan with a number of people who have travelled to Pakistan on their own and have now received support through the Dutch consular service to come to the Netherlands. The Dutch and Dutch residents remain a priority. I have also travelled to Qatar and Turkey on this and in implementation of the Belhaj motion to ask for their support in facilitating the safe departure of all these people. But the airport is closed again, as you know. Then there was a question from Mr Dassen. Is it not true that high-risk countries always have evacuation plans ready, which are updated every year? Yes, it is. And in normal high-risk areas, if I may put it that way, this is, of course, done especially for the Dutch staff. I have already said that the Netherlands has never evacuated locally to the Netherlands. That is an exceptional but right decision. Mrs. Van der Plas asked how many times there had been contact with people who had to be evacuated since the departure. The aim was to have contact with all groups, interpreters, Dutch, people covered by the Belhaj motion, the "belhajers" in this case 70 people who couldn't reach the airport at least once a week, if not more, in recent weeks. So far, so good. Mr Van Dijk asked why there is no idea yet of the number of evacuations. On 14 September the stand was as follows: 1,879 people on the lists are in security outside Afghanistan; 1,764 people are still in Afghanistan. That figure is fluctuating all the time. I've already mentioned that a number of people have already left. Much has been said about the French. I don't think I need to say this again. I am waiting for the note to confirm when I was informed about the French evacuation planning. That was this block. I can get to the block of local staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u395	There are still a number of interruptions. Firstly, Mr Boswijk of the CDA, then Mrs Piri of the PvdA and then Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u396	I do have a question. There are quite a few people on the Dutch list who are at the border with Pakistan, among others, but who are not entering Pakistan now. What are the contacts with Pakistan about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u397	I'm glad you asked. The purpose of my trip to Pakistan was, of course, also to ensure that the Pakistani authorities can cooperate if there are people in Pakistan who are eligible for departure to the Netherlands. Our ambassador, assisted by the Defense Department, is trying to get people across the border as discreetly as possible and in all kinds of ways. But I don't want to make too many statements about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u398	A brief, factual question. The fact is: on 15 August at 1:00 a.m., the embassy is moved to the airport, following the protocols in force. I have a simple question: was leaving local staff according to protocol?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u399	Here's how it's gonna be. There was no relocation from local staff to the airport. So that's a de facto protocol. No one expected to be relocated to the airport. The embassy had other locations in mind, but they weren't safe anymore. Here's what happened. The embassy staff were, as you know, called out of bed. They weren't in touch for a few hours. At 6:30 in the morning, they informed representatives of the local staff. They were aware of possible risks and of the possibility that the embassy would have to close, and that the temporary agent, and whoever else was there from us, could go to the airport. Furthermore, the Americans have not allowed local staff at the airport, apart from the fact that there was no place at all. So I don't think this was entirely protocol. But I also think it was the only way to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u400	I understand, therefore, that the actual protocol was to remove local staff first, but that apparently did not comply with the protocol. We all know that local staff were eventually left behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u401	I think this is a strong position, because local staff is local staff. That is also true for the United Nations and for all other countries. They live there, they take risks for us, and they have their families. It was completely impossible, although the embassy would have liked to say that we are taking 220 people from local staff and their nuclear families to the airport in the middle of the night. That is not how the situation was on the spot. The decision was that the Dutch were only allowed to go to the embassy. In good preparation with the local staff, they knew there were plans. They knew they'd be evacuated themselves. But they also knew that it is mostly applicable in all other countries as follows. If there's a danger, the sent diplomats will be brought to safety. Safe places are also sought for the local people, no matter what organization they work for, but not everyone can always go to the same place at the same time. In this case, the places chosen by the embassy were no longer accessible, because they were too unsafe. The plan could not therefore be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u402	We've just agreed to do interruptions in two. But if you have a very short question, you may. I'll take a look at the MPs to see if that's okay. That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u403	Perhaps what the Minister is explaining now was precisely one of the reasons why the local staff was so concerned. It's exactly what you're saying. The fact that 230 people and their families could not be evacuated before makes it so painful, from March 2020. We have seen the letters of fire from personnel who served the Netherlands for 18 years, in a visible position, in danger of life. Either the protocols didn't work out, or it just didn't work out the right way. My conclusion is that by following those protocols, we have left people in mortal danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u404	No, because I believe I have now stated that the protocol could not even be applied because the Americans did not allow local staff from any country to go to the airport. The worst thing is: in war and crisis areas, the best plans often fall apart. You can plan, but we didn't plan for this crisis. The best contingency plans were broken in this case because we were totally dependent on an airport.... we were driven away by the chaos surrounding the airport... and from American decision-making, which said: only the diplomats and no one else. There's been contact with our local staff. They know like no other that the Netherlands wanted to bring them to the Netherlands. That's what's planned. The fear they have experienced, I understand like no other. At the same time, they have performed miracles, because the same local staff has managed to get a lot of Dutch people to the airport the following days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u405	Just reflecting on the answer about the ambassador who left and couldn't make a warm transfer. I keep finding it weird. The ambassador's leaving. Apparently, there is a time when this decision is being taken. 24 hours later, there is another situation and there is no warm transfer, which just loses 24 hours. I think that's weird. Nor do I agree with the principle that the ambassador should be the last to leave. But I only have two interruptions, so I have to go on with my question. I have information that the weakest point of the evacuation, namely the airport, was not included in the schematics or the evacuation plan at all. Then I really wonder: was there an evacuation plan specific to the State Department? Or was there just an evacuation plan from the BSB?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u406	The BSB works for the ambassador, for the embassy, so it's from the State Department eventually. The military assessment and security is done by the BSB, but it is always under the responsibility of the State Department, in this case the temporary agent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u407	The BSB does have an evacuation plan, but it only evacuates diplomats by default. All those other people aren't in that plan. So I ask again: was there a specific evacuation plan from the State Department in which all these other people were taken and was the airport included?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u408	No. The situation around the airport and the chaos and insecurity I have mentioned as one of the wrong assumptions. There is no planned at an airport that was so unreachable, unsafe and restricted in access, let alone for large numbers of evacuations. So no, it's not included in the evacuation plan that way. It's scheduled for an orderly departure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u409	We're really gonna do the interruptions in half right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u410	One more comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u411	After you, I say to the Chamber, we're really gonna do the interruptions in half. It is a third interruption each time, and then a conclusion is drawn and no question is asked. I'll give you the last chance, and then we'll really do two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u412	This is very important. The final officer was the State Department, and there was no evacuation plan. That's incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u413	So it's a conclusion. Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u414	Local embassy staff is also staff. The Dutch have been instructed by the Americans to leave the embassy. That is what they have done with leaving behind some of the staff, namely local staff. Would it have been an option not to listen to the Americans and just stay with the staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u415	It happened at half past midnight. Most of the staff were safe at home with their own family, or in relative insecurity or safety. So it's not a colocation. And no, at that time we must rely on the decision of the captain of that ship acting according to instructions. At that time he really doesn't have all 220 Dutch local employees and their families, and also on the basis of the cabinet decision the 60 resident dependents who were also taken there. I couldn't do that at the time. It was total uncertainty, total chaos and total uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u416	I am not asking whether the local staff would have been taken, but whether it would have been an option that the Dutch embassy staff would have stayed with the rest of their colleagues. I have heard the Minister say earlier today that a captain is the last to leave the ship. That did not happen in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u417	It is always easy to think with the wisdom afterwards and from the safe Netherlands what is best. There will be an instruction, there will be violence, the Americans will say: it is now or never; you must go to the airport. Then our temporary agent and the BSB's made the right decision in my view, because there was so much uncertainty and because they thought the airport would close forever. A lot of embassies have taken the same advice, and that's why they've been able to set up at the airport and make preparations to help evacuate people. You couldn't if you weren't at the airport and stayed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u418	Mr Van Wijngaarden, then Mr Kuzu and then Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u419	I would like to return to that message of office from the head of mission in Kabul, which said that the decision to start the French position of early evacuation naturally included political elements. That's what it says with the word "natural." Now my question to the Minister is the following. You indicated that there was no other intelligence position with the French. I have just checked, but at the end of August there was an article in Le Monde and the Financial Times stating that the information was comparable, but the assessment and analysis of it was much more pessimistic than the other countries. Has there not been any wishful thinking in the nine other countries, I believe?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u420	That may well be possible, but I honestly believe that the evaluation should also look at these kinds of elements. I have already spoken at the beginning about the intelligence position we have, but also about how we deal with intelligence and data. I have also mentioned the problem of the blind spot, or perhaps in this case tunnel vision, if it is not wishful thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u421	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u422	Mr Van Dijk. Sorry, Mr Kuzu and then Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u423	I would like to come back to an interruption by Mrs Bromet about the knowledge that the Foreign Minister did not have about a French evacuation plane in July, when it was indicated in April. The French announced this in April. It's in Le Monde, a quality newspaper in France. The question is: what is the Foreign Minister going to do in the future, in terms of life and death situations, of enormous uncertainty, to ensure that this will never happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u424	I think the provision of information to the Minister is a very important one. Of course, you have decision-making moments, but we also have to look at them internally in the Foreign Office. How can it be that the perspective of action and the assessment of how important information can be at that time... The information dates from... I do not know what date Mr Kuzu mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u425	April.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u426	Souffling: May.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u427	In any case, I have to check the chain at which moments are truely informed, but I have not been informed myself. Of course, that's a huge lesson. That's what we're gonna talk about. We're going to see how you handle the information: what does that mean, where are the checks and balances, if it had made a difference? But I also said, as I say to Mr Kuzu: judging from both the assessment of the Embassy in Kabul and the assessment of all other partners, I cannot say that at that time, if I had known, I would have acted differently. That sounds tough. It's nicer to suggest that, but I can't say to my conscience that I would. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u428	That is something the Minister should come back to as far as I am concerned. We read in the reports that came out through the Volkskrant that the embassy staff made it very clear that there was a threat. The Minister says: that is then included in the security picture. Then how is it possible that nothing will be done about it? That's what I'm really trying to understand. It shall be included in the security picture on the situation in Afghanistan and Kabul in particular. But how can it be that, when it is included in the security picture, it was not acted upon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u429	Sorry, I was just looking for the answer to the question when I was informed about the French information, but I can't find it in all those papers. Did Mr Kuzu now ask about the French valuation, how it was not included in the safety picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u430	No, it's about the signals from our own embassy staff, local Afghans. In replying to the questions, the Minister indicated that they were included in the security picture. That comes back again and again in the answer. It is included in the safety picture, scenario analyses are made, impact analyses are made, but no action is taken. We are talking about culture within the Foreign Affairs Department, but I cannot escape the impression that this also applies to the defence sector. I would like to ask the Minister to come back to it in the short term, because this is simply not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u431	I think that Mr Kuzu is now drawing an easy conclusion. I do understand that, because I know like no other that local staff, wherever in the world, is the best source of information and contacts and often makes a social, cultural and political assessment that is much better than all the staff deployed. That's one. At the same time, the many reports that have been shared show that the embassy will eventually take this with it. The ambassador makes the weighing. He does the political reporting in consultation with the department. So it's weighted. It is also true that, in contrast to that, many Dutch people with an Afghan background were apparently suggested by their family: you can come, because it is okay. So there are a lot of sources of information and we always take them with us. But I agree that we should also check with the department whether we are using enough information from our own people or whether it is not being heard enough. This must also be taken into account, regardless of any independent evaluation, in our own internal exercise. Are we doing enough with it or do we actually have a little blinkers on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u432	I have a question about that weird, bizarre story about those three of 60 people who were invited to come along. Before I ask him, I want to know if the minister is going to refer him to another block, or if she's still bringing it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u433	I think the cubes have gradually evaporated. I'll be on the 60 and the 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u434	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u435	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u436	I'm just trying to figure out my papers, too. I'll do that at the end. I'm still in the block of "Performance Belhaj," but that doesn't matter. It is important to begin with that the result is that all local staff have been asked to stay independent in Afghanistan; they have often been asked to come, but for their own reasons they did not want to leave their nuclear family and eventually 60 residents who had a dependence on the people who were leaving are all safe in the Netherlands. They're very grateful to everyone here. Yeah, there's been a discussion. At first, that was to see what a nuclear family is. The request from the local staff was to bring many more family members. That's understandable, because people often live together. The Dutch concept of the nuclear family does not apply at all in many societies outside Europe. There was, however, a precedent due to the interpretation arrangements. Interpreting was provided for: interpreters, core families and with the exception of a number of dependent residents. That lens looked at the request of the local embassy staff. That has gone into stages. The suggestion to make it three is, I think, a mistake. The Council of Ministers has looked into and there has been consultations to conclude that the local staff could come with a nuclear family. There has been a discussion about how many others could come along. There have been discussions at official level with the IND about whether the IND could see who from the 60 people were also dependent on living. Equal monks, equal hoods: can it be exactly the same as in the interpretation scheme? It turned out to be quite difficult to talk to people and get information on the basis of which the IND had to weigh up. At that time, the Foreign Office spoke to the Ambassador and it was said that no agreement has yet been reached. It would then seem as if the interpreters who came earlier and who were already there could have derived less rights from them. We need to implement a consistent policy. The policy that took place in this area has been examined in this context. Then it was found out who were the most vulnerable of the residents. It's not: make it three. That does say "unhappy." In the end, the cabinet happily and with a moving insight decided that all 60 persons for whom the request had been made could come. I'm very happy about that. That's the process as I describe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u437	What an incredible spectacle this is. We're talking about the local embassy staff who've been calling for help since April. No answer was given. Finally, on 11 August, in a government meeting, it was decided that 3 of the 60 members of the family would be allowed to join, next to the nuclear family. Three out of 60 people get to go! So there's some kind of macabre quartet game played in your cabinet. I like to hear it when it's different. How the hell did you get to the number 3? You also know that the ambassador said that we are not going to do that. She wouldn't say: the 3 did and the 57 didn't. That's ludicrous, and that's unacceptable. The Ambassador deserves a very big compliment for her attitude in this matter. But how the hell did you get to that number 3? What happened there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u438	I just said I... I can't quote from phone calls, for example. After my arrival at the end of May, I was very quickly informed by the Foreign Office about the importance and need for the evacuation of local embassy staff. Then we said: work it out and talk it out with the other ministries, with a view to comparability and the same application of the arrangements that have been made for the interpreters. For the interpreters, there were a number of vulnerable residents, as it is called, who complied with the asylum or migration policy in force. I hope I am not being too careless. Then there were a number of conversations. As I just described, it was said: who is really vulnerable? A nuclear family consists of men, women, mostly men and women in Afghanistan, and children and young adults up to 25 years of age. They were allowed to come. In addition, there was the situation that a single woman, who lived with her brother and his wife, said: I do not want to go to the Netherlands without my brother and his wife. That kind of situation. We have discussed this on a number of occasions. The first request to the ambassador was: consult with the IND. You can read it... to see where the space is, but there is a valid asylum and migration policy. In the talks, and eventually in August, the right decision was made that all 60 could come along.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u439	In the end, it was decided that everyone could come. Oh, thank God. But that makes it even more incomprehensible and darker that it was initially said from the cabinet to the ambassador: 'Dear Ambassador, 3 out of 60 can use it,' you must leave 57 behind. This was achieved in a negotiation by the four rulers who are sitting here. So they've all mentioned numbers. I would like to hear from you all what number you have mentioned. Mrs. Kaag, did you bet on 10, on 2, on 7, or on 100? Let us know. But do you agree that it is really bizarre and really unacceptable that you have presented the ridiculous proposal to the ambassador that she should have only 3 people brought to the Netherlands, instead of the full 60?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u440	As I said earlier: on the basis of advice, and also on the basis of the asylum and migration test in force, the ambassador has been asked, at the official level: look who is actually eligible under the applicable laws and regulations, also in view of the contrast with the interpreters, who should not feel disadvantaged. That's what lived. In the end, the result, which I said I was very happy about, was that the 60 could come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u441	Thank you. Mr Kuzu van DENK and then Mrs Piri van de PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u442	That was not entirely an answer to the question. That analysis therefore showed that the Foreign Minister, Mrs Kaag, was able to allow three out of 60 people to be brought here. Or wasn't that Mrs Kaag, Mr Rutte? Which one was it, anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u443	No, I have just described a number of times that, on the basis of the interpretation scheme, interpreters, core families and a number of dependent residents were allowed to come, on the basis of the current laws and regulations on asylum and migration. The request to the embassy was made: equal monks, equal hoods, look at it again, otherwise there is a very big gap between what we did for the interpreters, who served the Netherlands as well, and the very important local embassy staff and their families. So the request was: look at it again. I don't think that seriously it was meant to be just about three people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u444	But according to the laws and regulations, these were only 3 people out of 60. The Minister pointed out that the number of persons eligible had to be assessed on the basis of current legislation and regulations. We then read from the figures that there were three of them and that the ambassador in Kabul really indicates a heroine as far as I'm concerned: we're just not gonna do that, we're not gonna abandon 57 people. My question is: was that Mrs Kaag's proposal or Mr Rutte's proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u445	I have already mentioned a number of times that the request has been made to look again at the group that is there on the basis of consultation. Who is one of the dependent residents? Maybe that's not all 60. That is a very legitimate request. I do not think it was intended to say that there should only be three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u446	But it was the outcome! I hear the Minister say that she is pleased that the right decision was finally taken: all 60 people to the Netherlands. I understand that she had a great deal of sympathy for the request from the embassy. Then my question is this: did the Minister try to convince her colleagues on 13 August in the Council of Ministers? Why didn't we get an agreement to take all 60 with us at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u447	I don't think we're speaking from the Council of Ministers. We've talked about it a number of times. As I said, I welcome the final decision and everyone who sits here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u448	My conclusion is that you then made a plea to allow 60 people to come here and that there was no agreement in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u449	That conclusion is entirely borne by Mrs Piri. I think I've described enough that the cabinet also has moving insight. We are all in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u450	The Minister himself was present when the decision was adopted. That decision was then forwarded to the ambassador. What was that decision that was made?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u451	That was the exceptional and rightful decision, and I must say once again that the Netherlands is going to bring local embassy staff and their core families to the Netherlands for the first time. The request that was made was still examined, namely who could possibly come from the dependent residents. That's where all the changes came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u452	I can follow that, but then I don't understand the ratio why it should be out of 60 but 3. Was it a dependent ratio with regard to the interpreters? I'd like to hear from the Minister why it should be three. You have made the decision that a number of people are allowed to come. I can see that. But what I cannot follow is that the ambassador then literally says: I have thought carefully about your request to implement a decision by the BIWO to reduce the list of hardness clauses from 60 to 3. This seems to me to be the clear decision. You say that the decision is more nuanced, but can you explain to me how the ambassador felt compelled to choose three people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u453	I've said it a number of times. I think that is understood as: if it cannot be the 60 because they do not meet the criteria that have been set for years in accordance with the asylum and migration committee of this Chamber... There's been a phone call ahead of it. I think this e-mail is a reaction to that. I think you got it, too. There has been a response from the Deputy Secretary-General who says: go again in consultation with the IND. So no one ever said it had to be three. It was a direction to say: look who can actually fall under it. Maybe there aren't that many. It was a request to the ambassador.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u454	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u455	Then I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u456	There is one more question from Mr Dassen. I'm afraid I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u457	My question is actually a little broader. I hear about protocols, about existing legislation and about what fits and what doesn't fit. At the same time, I also hear the Minister say that we were in an unprecedented situation, a crisis situation. Where other countries show that people were welcomed and that people were admitted, I feel that here in the Netherlands we have only stuck to those protocols and to that existing legislation. Where was the leadership from the cabinet to say: okay, we are in a crisis situation, there are people in need and we are going to make sure that those people are brought to the Netherlands, regardless of the protocols that are there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u458	I think the interpretation system is one of them, of course. The second is the decision to bring a number of people who worked for the Dutch embassy to the Netherlands, in its entirety, the whole group. The Netherlands has a different migration policy than an England or a Canada, I say to Mr Dassen. He knows that, too. But many countries now face the same dilemmas and still want to help, evacuate and bring many more people here, based on a humane attitude and the need to protect. But we will return to that in a moment, in the implementation of the Belhaj motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u459	The interpretation system is, of course, partly spurred by the Chamber, but I understand the foreign minister's struggle in this respect, because we do indeed have a government that is scandalous in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u460	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u461	I now move on to the Belhaj motion, Madam President. A number of questions have been asked about this. Mr Van Dijk...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u462	Excuse me, Mr Omtzigt has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u463	In this small block I had asked a question about the fact that there seems to be intensive contact, when I listen to the Minister, with the interpreters who are still there and with the people with a Dutch passport. However, I hear from those people that they have had up to one e-mail in the last two weeks. Is there close contact now? Can these people call someone? Do they have a permanent contact at the State Department they can call, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u464	At least weekly contact is sought with those who were still on the list, i.e. with the 70, with the Dutch and with a number of other people. In principle, everyone must be contacted. That has already happened in the last two weeks. Perhaps Mr Omtzigt knows some cases of people who have not been reached. I'm afraid to rule that out. I also know that the consular foreign affairs team will continue to work properly to keep in touch. They cannot always reach everyone, but special attention is given to them. I have also explicitly requested this, and we will continue to employ additional people, just to support the people of Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u465	But once a week an e-mail is also contact, with which you can't do that much. That really means: in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u466	Calling is this, phone calls.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u467	Thank you. The Minister is now continuing her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u468	There was a question about the Belhaj category and the Belhaj motion. Over 40,000 e-mails have been received in Kabul's mailbox since 15 August. 23 000 of these concern persons who consider themselves entitled to come to the Netherlands under the Belhaj motion. Many e-mails concern several people. So one e-mail, as Mr Van Wijngaarden pointed out, can concern, for example, five people. But there are also a lot of emails that are a repetition of requests submitted. So there are 40,000 e-mails and we think we're talking about 23,000 people. Hundreds of e-mails still arrive daily and the mailbox is continuously monitored by a special team. It is sorted to see if there are among the mails Dutch people or persons with a Dutch residence permit and if there are still new applications from, for example, Defence interpreters. As I have just said, consular support is also provided to the Dutch and to persons with a Dutch residence permit. The Ministry of Defence checks in particular the e-mails about the Defence Interpreters, from the employership. So there's a lot of work going on right now to sort. We have reached a moment, as you know, to close this mailbox. But that does not rule out that if people want to report when they are in the region, they can still do so with UNHCR or the IOM. What doesn't happen, what you know from the letter, is that the cabinet is already going to screen. We are in consultation with the UNHCR, the UN Refugee Organisation, and the International Organisation for Migration whether they can use data in a cleaned up database and whether they from Kabul for the Netherlands, and ideally also for other European countries, on the basis of criteria to be determined, a timetable and a possible quota, can see who is eligible to come to the Netherlands from this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u469	I'll see if the Minister has answered any questions about the Belhaj motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u470	I've got a few more. I can summarize them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u471	Just a few more and I'll pass on the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u472	There was a question from Mrs Belhaj: do you not carry out the motion as regards the chefs, personnel of military missions? The question was: how do you carry it out? Anyone can, of course, check in. I said the mailbox will be closed. Unfortunately, Evacuation is not possible at the moment, but those who are in a neighbouring country will be assisted if it is established that a person qualifies for the interpretation scheme. Furthermore, I remain in consultation with Qatar, Turkey and other countries to see when we can get people back on regular civilian flights, because that is the only approach of the Taliban. The other warning that I have to put in any case when implementing the Belhaj motion, despite the commitment of the cabinet, is that the Taliban indicated to the UN yesterday that they do not want Afghans to leave the country. They even ask for the repatriation of Afghans who have left the country, because they want to preserve knowledge and skills for the country. I give this as information and do not say that this is desirable, but this is how the Taliban stand at the moment. It will, of course, make the implementation of a motion in the future, including for the UNHCR and the IOM, still politically sensitive and very complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u473	Thank you. Mrs Belhaj, then Mr Boswijk and then Mr Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u474	The Minister indicated that 23,000 people should actually be examined in more detail. Here's what I'm wondering. Of course, we hear a lot of noises. People are very panicked. Also this morning, people said, "Please help us." There have been people crying before us to say: I just want to make clear where I am and want to be in good contact. I wonder if there is anything else the ministry could do to send out the signal for those people in the complex situation in which they are sitting as much as possible: we stay day in, day out of our best efforts to ensure that, if you are entitled to asylum in the Netherlands, you can finally come to the Netherlands, so that you are safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u475	Yes. I certainly hear the question and, of course, I also recognise the enormous concerns of family members and of those who are still stuck in Afghanistan. We are now really very active in talking to the UNHCR and the IOM. In fact, I hope that we can reach an agreement quickly and that we can give it to all those who are concerned that there is the information, that they should report there, if they have not yet done so, and that there should be follow-up contact. Meanwhile, the clearing of the database also looks at what information and messages we can send to everyone who is in it, so that they know what they are up to at the moment. But at the moment there is little we can say, because we do not yet know how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u476	Then I have another follow-up question. There are, of course, gradations in the people at risk. Some of those people really have a high-risk profile. In fact, someone explained to me: it is the grand prize if I am killed, because then you immediately send a very clear signal to the rest of society about what is or is not accepted. That's horrible, of course. But is there any possibility, within that complexity of selecting the list, of continuing to look closely at people who are really at the highest risk? I mean that we give them as much as possible, when we can, for example by safehouses or whatever, a safe place if they are not safe at the place where they are going now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u477	Yes. That is of course very important, but I must say that at the moment none of us and our friendly countries are in Kabul. So this is just very difficult to make as a commitment. We are discussing this with a number of similar countries. I asked the EU to return to Kabul as soon as possible, when it can safely do so. We are also investigating this ourselves, together with France, Italy, Germany and the United Kingdom. It's also something the Prime Minister and I will discuss with Prime Minister Johnson and my counterpart. So we are doing everything we can to get back as quickly as possible. However, we cannot give any guarantee of the security situation there. The coverage of the Taliban is, of course, frightening. So we're in a very dark zone, but we want to go back and help. We are also talking to UNHCR and other organisations to see what they can do. This may not be a traditional mandate, but it belongs in the category of 'provide protection'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u478	I read in a press release last night that the UNHCR said that they do not have any activities in Afghanistan at all at the moment and that they are also more or less forbidden to receive Afghans in the countries around them. Do you recognize that signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u479	No, because UNHCR has been taking care of countries in the region for many years. They may not be with an international staff in Kabul right now, but I believe that the High Commissioner for Refugees himself is going to travel to Afghanistan for a first talk with the Taliban. It is very unusual that the UNHCR is not in a country, including Afghanistan. So I'm assuming this is really very temporary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u480	A completely different question. You were talking about 70 Belhajtjes or something; I don't know exactly how you said it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u481	The belhajers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u482	The belhajers, excuse me. What's that number based on? Is there any chance that that number will increase? Because, of course, there's a big difference between 70 and 20,000. I'm sure it's somewhere in between, but what's it based on? And do you think that number is going to grow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u483	There are 70 people who had been called. They'd had a call. I reported this earlier this evening. They should have been on the last flight, but they didn't make it through chaos, through insecurity, through the checkpoints. One person has also been arrested, but has since been released. So it's a group of 70 people. Our ultimate first obligation is to them. They should have been evacuated by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u484	I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21 and then to Mrs Teunissen of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u485	I'd like to ask you a few questions about the extent of the Belhaj motion. According to NRC Handelsblad of 13 September, you would have said that this group is becoming far too large. Too many belhajers. Is that right? Can you work that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u486	I'm not going to review the NRC. But of course, if you look at the notifications, the e-mails, 40,000, and the scope of the number of people... I meant that at the time: that it is a very large group. If you look at our reception facilities, the burden and also the basis of support, perhaps this enormous scope has not been fully taken into account in the drafting of the motion. That was my assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u487	I have a question about the coordination with other countries of the handling of the mails that are coming in. We see that the United Kingdom is using a very different way of dealing with applications than closing the mailbox, the way the Minister proposes here. The United Kingdom is simply continuing its current approach. With this they show that once there are opportunities, as soon as they see opportunities to evacuate people, the stake will be that they will. That's something they carry out by continuing with the current method. The Minister really chooses a different method here. She says: no, we close the mailbox and we refer people to the UNHCR. That really is a very different step than dealing with it in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u488	Just for the record, as a first-hour consular service provider, Foreign Affairs has used the mailbox. We do not have the knowledge or the mandate to judge asylum applications. But more importantly, the United Kingdom has said that it is prepared to absorb 5,000 Afghans in one year. They're setting up a special program for that. In this letter as a cabinet, we said that we want to look, in cooperation with and implementation by UNHCR and IOM, one of the two or both, ideally both of whom of all the notifications is eligible under the Belhaj motion. Then we will discuss with the Chamber the criteria to be applied, the United Kingdom actually has an annual quota of 5,000 people and the timetable. For example, how long does it have to go on and do you want to do this for many years? These are all questions; we have not yet taken a decision on them as a cabinet. We will come back to it later, hopefully if we have been able to reach a number of agreements in principle with UNHCR and IOM. Germany, for example, has 300,000 e-mails and I believe it uses the same method. It is also in consultation with UNHCR and IOM. The United Kingdom too, a number of countries. Even the Americans, who have rebooted a very generous refugee program under President Biden. President Trump had stopped it.. have the same dilemmas as we have. We also want to work with them to set up, for example, a special admissions programme, which could include the Belhaj group. That's the stake, but we haven't mentioned numbers yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u489	Thank you. Mr Van Wijngaarden and then Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u490	I heard the Minister say: then we hope to reach an agreement. But the Minister also pointed out for a while that this was a very large group: 23,000 now and 100 more. We need to see how much of that is really covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u491	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u492	Well, I hope it does... Looking is fine, but making agreements is not good, as far as I'm concerned. First of all, please include the Chamber before anything like this is at stake. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u493	Yes, I'd like to confirm that on behalf of the cabinet. Exploratory talks are being held and we will come back into contact with the Chamber to discuss the possible implementation, criteria, timetable and quota.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u494	I hear the Minister say: we are carrying out the Belhaj motion. At the same time, I hear her say: but we are still going to set criteria, we are going to set a maximum possible limit and we are going to look at a timetable. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u495	The Belhaj motion, of course, had two parts. There is also talk about protecting people when evacuation is no longer possible. It is of course important that we look at who the people are, what the degree of acuteness and harrowingness is, what the vulnerability is due to activities and what risks they run. In it, I fear, choices will have to be made. You need criteria for that, a quota and perhaps a timetable. The interpreters have the right to come to the Netherlands on the basis of their work. There is broad support and, of course, commitment to carry out the motion, but that requires more work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u496	I need to process this. I believe that as a Chamber we have adopted three motions concerning our local staff: a motion of 3 June which we concluded had not been carried out, a motion of 7 July and a motion of 17 August by Mr Belhaj. I now hear that criteria, limits and vulnerabilities are still being considered, all of which were not in the Chamber. It did not say: all people with a link to the Netherlands if vulnerable, visible. No, it didn't say that. In my view, the intention is not to carry out the Belhaj motion anymore. What I am really upset about is that the letter from the cabinet says: we make an exception, we don't throw everyone over the fence, but the interpreters, the Dutch and those 70 people who apparently couldn't get on the last flight, we will evacuate them ourselves. What about all the other former employees of the Defense Department, our military was the employer? Seriously, are we going to hand these people over to UNHCR and IOM? Are we going to make sure we don't take that responsibility again? And how long is that gonna take?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u497	The people who were already covered by the interpretation system and the other employees will continue to receive the support if they can, if there are possibilities again. But the Belhaj motion also reads wider. It has been extended, and rightly so, by other categories: people who are also vulnerable because they were human rights defenders, because they have worked for development cooperation organisations. But I also think that Mrs Piri agrees with me that a humane asylum policy does not suddenly apply to 20,000 people, should they all fall into space and width under the Belhaj motion... That there's less possibility of that. It is therefore important, as the British and the Germans do, to see whether there can be careful application and whether there are criteria that are appropriate and that do justice to the spirit and letter of the motion, but which are also practicable in the broader sense of the word. So I don't think the cabinet is trying here not to carry out the motion. Far from it. We're looking for ways to do it where it's justified and executable. At the moment, we are still trying to figure that out, even with similar countries that have the same volume and have the same commitment and commitment, but we are also trying to find a way to do it properly and carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u498	A word in connection with Mrs Piri. I have the motion here. It takes into account a scenario in which the people, about whom we have been here endlessly in the previous debate... It was not easy to get the cabinet to speak out what we meant in the majority here. A letter came in later. It is quite clear: "if evacuation is not possible, to identify this group as a risk group when applying for asylum in the Netherlands." It doesn't say: we're going to take a closer look at this group, who is one of them and who isn't one of them. So it's either one or the other. Whether the motion is carried out and then it is about the group, or the motion is not carried out, but I think it is fair for the cabinet to say: we are not going to carry out that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u499	I am very sorry that the assumption is being made as if we do not want to carry out the motion. On the contrary, we make a lot of attempts to see how it can be carried out, but it's just not that easy. We now have a database, an inbox with 22,000 people, and more people could be in every e-mail. We do not know at the moment whether these people are actually covered by the Belhaj motion, so we need to have that checked. It is also stated in the cabinet letter that if it is established that they are covered by the Belhaj motion, they are classified as a risk group. On this basis, if they are in the region, they can report to IOM or UNHCR. It's the same in Kabul. Then there can be an orderly process. If they are in the Netherlands, they will be eligible as a risk group in an accelerated asylum procedure. If you have any specific questions, we will explain them further, but this is really the intention. I am very sorry that there would be a misunderstanding as if the cabinet were not fully committed. It's incredibly difficult. It's not 50 people. It's a lot of people, and we just need to do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u500	But we have also heard in the debate earlier what the VVD thinks about it, namely that not everyone who has stacked two stones should be helped for the Dutch. My question to the cabinet is, in fact, whether the cabinet agrees with the wording of the motion as explained by the VVD. Or does the cabinet say: no, it really says that there is a group, which is clearly defined in the motion and we're just going to help them all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u501	I think I have given the explanation a few times as it is in the letter. It is also appropriate for the Cabinet to examine with other countries what criteria would apply, what would apply, whether a quota is needed and whether a timetable is needed. Are we going back ten years in time on the basis of this motion or is the number of years? I don't want to speculate on the types of criteria. We have come to debate this very carefully with this Chamber in a subsequent phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u502	Thank you. Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u503	Mr. Chairman. I have the impression that we are going to the end of the part that the Foreign Minister gives us in the first term. I've heard a lot of things. In any case, it has become clear to me that the coordination of the whole is with the Foreign Affairs Committee. I indicated in my first term that when I see everything in the timeline, I see good intentions, but I miss coordination and I miss leadership. I asked for a firm self-reflection. I hear a lot of things here: circumstances, assumptions that are wrong and people who have acted in a certain way, one good and the other a little less. But I would like the Foreign Minister to take a look inside and say: I have done a number of things here as Foreign Minister I know there have been two people in that position, if you look at that whole timeline and this has not gone well, but if I got into a new situation, I would do that and that and that differently. I really miss that piece of self-reflection, looking at that piece in the mirror which I think Mr Boswijk also referred to. I'd really like to hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u504	I think that we have already identified a number of things, but self-reflection and reflection on where it went wrong and what we, as Foreign Affairs, and myself as the head of responsibility, should do differently, requires, frankly, even more conversations and knowledge. But I have a nice quote from Abraham Kuyper: the penance cloth does not dissect the woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u505	"The man."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u506	I've been standing here "doesn't displease the woman."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u507	It's been modified!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u508	Everyone is free to debate this, but I think I have the microphone now. But for the SGP, I'm sure I'd like to make it a gender-neutral entity. "The penitentiary doesn't dissipate the woman." As far as I am concerned, I recognise Mr Stoffer's appeal, in good leadership, not to speak straight what is crooked. We've made errors of judgment. We underestimated the speed. We didn't get all the ends together. We need to reflect on that much more. Of course I'm sorry. I know other people are gonna say this, too. No one would have wanted to see this situation like this right now. I wonder every day what we missed, what I missed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u509	As far as the ruling is concerned, I could generalize it to 'the penitentiary also adorns the Minister for Foreign Affairs'. Then you've solved everything in terms of gender. But the last thing the minister says is, what did I miss? Then my question is: what is the answer to the question put by the Foreign Minister himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u510	I wonder whether we have mentioned this very often in the debate, and I do not have an answer to this question at what crucial moments of information we, I too, have looked at a situation through the wrong lens. That is a very important question. 'Cause that's when you act differently. That's a question I'm asking myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u511	I shall look at Mr Dassen van Volt, Mr Van Dijk and again Mr Van Wijngaarden and again Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u512	I was just thinking about what the Minister replied to my previous question. That was that we have a different migration policy here in the Netherlands. I was curious to see what exactly this migration policy has had to do with the evacuation we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u513	I can't say one-two-three. There is a valid migration policy. There are agreements about the interpreters. They go back many years. A major exception has been made, rightly, for the evacuation of our local embassy staff. But it is very easy to do, now here, from the Lower House, as if all the appointments in other committees were not discussed, being reconfirmed, and the cabinet could have done everything differently. We've been robbed. We have not made all the decisions from an overall picture. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's As far as the Belhaj motion is concerned, due to the enormous deterioration in the situation, the cabinet has recognised that much more needs to be done to protect people who need it, which we may not do in other countries, where it may be almost as poignant as in Afghanistan, and other countries do not. We're not talking about Yemen tonight or Syria. We are not talking about many other countries. But then this Chamber may not have the same reflex. I think the Belhaj motion has given us a huge mirror how we can also offer protection. The implementation is still very difficult, but we are committed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u514	That's not exactly the answer to my question. My question was how migration policy has affected decision-making in recent months in this evacuation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u515	Well, not the evacuation itself. It's about who's entitled to come to the Netherlands. That is based on current policy. We are not Canada, which can suddenly say that we are releasing a quota for 20,000 people. This is not how the Netherlands has worked in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u516	Mr Van Dijk of the SP, then Mr Van Wijngaarden and then Mr Ceder. Then I want to end the Foreign Affairs block, suspend briefly and give the floor to the Secretary of Defense. But first, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u517	Did you also have an end time in mind, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u518	That depends entirely on this Chamber, but perhaps it would be good to reflect on it later. First, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u519	I'd like, with your permission, to come back to those 3 and the 60. Something has been said by the Minister and I hope she acknowledges that that cannot be right. She said, "No one has ever said that there should be only three." That's really pertinently incorrect. We have information that shows that it has been said to the embassy. Does the Minister take that back or insist that it has never been said that it should only be three?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u520	I am not aware from the telephone conversation that the suggestion has been raised that there should be no more than three. In my view, the approach of the talks was also confirmed in a follow-up e-mail at official level to see what was possible and who might be covered by the hardness clause. That's not necessarily three people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u521	But that's amazing, isn't it? We have just received this e-mail and information today, also from the Volkskrant, in which the ambassador says to you:...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u522	Not to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u523	... "With all due respect, we're not going for those three people. We go for everyone. We're not leaving anyone behind." The number three has been very clearly communicated from the government to the embassy. Do you deny it or do you acknowledge it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u524	It's an e-mail in response to a phone call. I wasn't at the phone call. That was not the case with me, but I know that the person concerned, who made that phone call, has indicated the direction on the basis of the interpretation system, i.e. core families and indwelling vulnerable people who meet the IND test. Someone spoke to the ambassador on the phone, and he emailed this back. But I say to you, in all conscience, that the person concerned, who had that conversation, did not say: there must be only three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u525	Mr Van Wijngaarden, then Mr Ceder and Mrs Teunissen, because otherwise we are going to run too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u526	In the context of the question "what have I missed?', I shall return to the letter from the Secretary-General of the Minister, which the Minister himself has just made. That was the answer to the desperate letter from the entire local staff. My question to the Minister is: did she miss that letter from the local staff or did she miss the answer to that letter? Was it agreed by you or discussed with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u527	I was familiar with the fact that a letter would be sent, but that letter was not accepted. That's not common either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u528	But was the minister aware of the content of the letter that would be sent? I am very curious how she now reflects on the fact that there was a help question and the response from the ministry was: "the fact that we are on uncharted territory unfortunately also means that it takes time." In other words: it's all complicated and it still takes a lot of time. I wonder how the Minister now looks back on that answer, which she was apparently partly aware of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u529	I was aware of the direction, but there was still consultation with the Secretary-General, with the Ambassador in Kabul, with the Asia Executive Board and with myself. That's exactly what we did to talk about, in the sense of: "We want to evacuate our local embassy staff, our core families and perhaps even more people. What can we do and how are we going to find out?" This early consultation at official level with other ministries so that I could go to the Council of Ministers with a coordinated proposal. That was the intention of that letter. If you read the letter now and see that people who are in despair are told that it takes time, perhaps it would have been better to say: we will return to it as soon as possible and rather next week. But the ambassador in Kabul knew that, because we had video conferences with her, just to go over everything. She was also the one who would discuss this further with local staff. Sometimes that's the problem. I understand that, too. If you read a letter, it can be very confrontational. But it is in a broader context of conversations, agreements and follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u530	No, Mr. Van Wijngaarden, there are a number of other interruptions. Mr Ceder, then Mrs Teunissen, then Mr Omtzig. There is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u531	In order to prevent it from sticking in the air, I would like to ask whether the Minister can verify it, either in the pause or afterwards, or come back to that in the second term. Good employership is important. Could she please check with the ambassador and the person on the other side of the line whether this was indeed interpreted that way? It would be a pity if this were to be said and brought back to it later. So I would like to hear if you could back that up today. I have not yet had an answer to the question as to what date you knew the French evacuation had been offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u532	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u533	It's in these papers somewhere. I've been looking for that all along, listening. I think that was after returning... I'm gonna check on the backup. If anyone can whisper a date to me soon...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u534	Or a note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u535	I believe that the French message itself, the French conversation in Kabul, was on 11 July or something like that. In my remembrance, but I'll be right back, when the other rulers speak, I was not informed until August. But now I'm guessing. That's because of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u536	July 10th, is in the factual account.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u537	Yeah, but that's about the embassy itself. My memory is August.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u538	Maybe the Secretary of Defense will be able to get the date...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u539	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u540	No? No, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u541	The Secretary of Defense will let me know the date of the information from the French side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u542	I haven't had an answer to my question, but my interruption is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u543	I'm doing my best, sir...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u544	Thank you. I like to hear it. Then there is my other question, of which the Minister indicated that he would return to it in the second term. Since she later indicated that she had the coordinating role, that is certainly relevant. I said in my first interruption that STUDY already stated in January that the rise of the Taliban would inevitably lead to the taking over of the government. Among other things, in June, we received a joint letter from the Foreign Affairs and Defence Department, which reported to the Chamber: "However, the question remains as to how the Taliban will relate to Afghanistan's national administration." This while the cabinet already knew it would be inevitable. Do you, also as a co-signatory of this letter, consider that you have misinformed the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u545	I just need to know to what extent Mr Ceder thinks he can draw this off. When we say... Can you repeat the specific question? Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u546	Again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u547	In the factual account it says: "On January 14th, STVD reports that by combining, in particular, the expansion of Taliban influence in the provincial capitals and the exponential decrease in the administrative effectiveness of the Afghan Republic, it is inevitable that the Taliban will move on to the take-over of the government." That was January 14th. Among other things, on 18 June 2021, you will write in an update: "However, the question remains how the Taliban will relate to the national government of Afghanistan and the international community." You also say: 'The role of the Taliban in the future Afghanistan and the involvement of international partners will have to be crystallised according to developments in the country'. We didn't know about the STUD opinion until last week. Did you think the Chamber should have known about this? And do you think that, among other things, in the letter of 18 June 2021, you misinformed the Chamber about the forecasts for the government in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u548	No, because there are different layers. Of course, you have the compressed version. The STIVD does not state in the January report that the timetable is clear. That's important... I like to keep talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u549	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u550	At the same time, we have now found that the estimation, evaluation and use of the data has proved to be wrong. But, of course, the cabinet informs us of its conscience at the time of writing. That was the estimate that we didn't know how fast it would go, how fast it would go. As I said before, the Taliban themselves were surprised at how fast it ended up. If we had known all this and made a better assessment, we would not have had to have this debate on an evacuation. That's the very sad part. But misinformation would indicate intent, and that is of course not the case at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u551	Mrs Teunissen of the Animal Party and finally Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u552	About 60 to 3. I have here an email from the ambassador of 12 August and it says: "I have thought carefully about your request to implement the decision of a bra to reduce the list of hardness clauses from 60 to 3. I understand that the post must make this choice today and submit it to you." Does the Minister recognise that this is a very clear instruction to reduce the number of cases from 60 to 3?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u553	I have said it many times now: there was a telephone call in advance and there was a direction. And as I am assured and as I know from the person who made the call to the ambassador, it is not said: it must become 3. It was explained that, by analogy with the interpretation scheme, in which only a limited number of people were covered by the category "inhabitant dependent" and from comparability and equal monks, equal hoods could not be eligible for all 60. But then the suggestion was also made, in the same phone call, to contact the IND again to see who could fall under that category. So that's a broadening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u554	Mrs Teunissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u555	The ambassador has also given some thought to this instruction she has received. So it seems very clear to me that it says here: from 60 to 3 and there can be no discussion about that. But I would ask the Minister to clarify this with the embassy. In addition, I would like to know: who is responsible for this? She says "a phone call," but someone is responsible for this. Is that you? Is that the State Department?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u556	Whoever calls, of course, calls under my responsibility. The person who called passed a decision by a government representative, because Foreign Affairs is not about asylum policy. But again, I do not dispute what the ambassador writes back, but I do know of the person who made the call that was not instructed: it must only be three people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u557	What was the decision of the board members' meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u558	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u559	What was the relevant decision of the government consultation? Three? No three? Because apparently a clear decision had been taken between these four leaders. It was these four directors who had taken the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u560	In my opinion, I have already described it several times, namely that it should be analogous to the interpretation system, that there should be a review of who is actually dependent in the 60-year-old group and who would be a really vulnerable case, and that the 60-year-old group was not subject to the asylum and migration procedures in force at this stage. That was decided, but otherwise I also think that... yes, that was discussed at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u561	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u562	I would like to have access to the decision list of those government representatives' meetings. That can also be confidential. 'Cause there's really a big difference here. The ambassador says "there are three," and that's what she actually says. If the ambassador had felt that there was room, the ambassador would have written back: there is room and I would like to explain it in this way. So is it possible to get that list of decisions? Then there's my second question. I had asked Minister Kaag at the end if she trusted Prime Minister Rutte. A few days ago, that didn't seem to be the case. I also asked if there was anything in this file that got in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u563	That was indeed another question you had asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u564	The answer is: yes, and we work very well together and have had almost daily contact about this, or two or three times, at many times. I would also like to make the point that I get these kinds of questions of trust on a regular basis. Maybe I can say this as a Member of Parliament. I am all about a good understanding in cooperation. I think it is very often drawn into the far too personal, which is not relevant for the successful operation of a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u565	Thank you. No, Mr. Ommzigt, we're doing this in two, too. That's what we're...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u566	Mr President, this was a question of fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u567	I have replied 'yes' and I have said how good cooperation is, including on this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u568	There will also be a second term. I really want to go with this part... it was a question from Mr Omtzigt. So I'm gonna take a look at...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u569	About the Minutes, yes. That's what I'm getting at. The question was: will you make public the reports of rulers?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u570	The decision list.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u571	The decision list? No. For the same reason that the minutes of the Council of Ministers cannot be made public, reports of sub- Councils and bra's shall not be made public. I have no opinion here on the list of decisions, but in addition to the damage it would do to the unity of government policy, disclosure of these reports would also harm other interests...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u572	I don't even know if they exist. I'll get back to you in my term. I'm gonna let you give me some advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u573	Namely, the security of the state and international diplomatic interests. This is about the disclosure of reports. But Mr Omtzig asked about the list of decisions in order to verify the number 3, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u574	For the record, I am referring to the decision taken in the list of decisions. I don't need to know which of the four agreed or disagreed. I understand there's some confidence in that, because otherwise you won't have that cabinet policy unit. But a decision is simply a clear decision, which is then implemented. You can make a decision. Not the discussions underneath. On that earlier point: it really was the government itself that talks about trust in each other or not. So I thought that was a relevant question, because it was raised itself. The answer is interesting, because it wasn't there a week ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u575	The Minister has responded to it. The Prime Minister has also indicated that he will come back to this later. There's just one question left. I feel guilty about Mr De Roon, because a number of other questions have also been asked. But there is still one question that remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u576	I had told the Minister that it had said that forming an inclusive government by the Taliban was essential to be eligible for the resumption of humanitarian aid. I suppose it's true that the Minister said this. If we don't, we'll hear about it in a minute, but then it's fake news from the ANP. We now note that there is no inclusive government. Then may I assume that the transfer of aid money has stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u577	There are two things. Thank you, by the way, for coming back to your actual question. You referred to my ruling on an inclusive government and the Taliban as if I had invented it myself. But I was just quoting a list of demands from the United Nations Security Council, from the Americans. We have joined as EU Member States. So there's not much naive about it. The point is that Afghanistan will no longer be a basis for terror. Secondly, there are demands on the Taliban. If they want to be eligible for international funding at all, such as frozen assets and support from the IMF or the World Bank, they will have to form an inclusive government, with respect for women and girls, respect for human rights and a fifth point, which I have just forgotten. This is an EU declaration and the Netherlands has joined. It is important that we never give humanitarian aid to governments, as Mr De Roon knows. We'll give it to UNICEF or the World Food Programme. Minister De Bruijn has allocated more than EUR 20 million because the Afghan people will be starving if the present form of existence in Afghanistan continues. We do this through UN organisations. There's not a penny going to the Taliban.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u578	So I may conclude that the 200 million simply continues to flow into Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u579	No. That 200 million goes... Mr De Roon knows that there is a difference between humanitarian aid and the other allocation of funds, which has been frozen because there is no reason to spend it through other structures in Afghanistan. But we do humanitarian aid through UNICEF, the Red Cross and other channels. These are two different forms of financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u580	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Foreign Minister's contribution. I'm suspending the meeting for about five minutes... ten minutes, until 10:30. Then we'll go to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u581	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the situation in Afghanistan, the first term of the Minister of Defence. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u582	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with a few brief introductory remarks in addition to what the Foreign Minister said. Then I will deal with the interpreters and the security services and put a single operational question to me. A few brief introductory remarks. We are talking today about the appalling developments in Afghanistan, as far as I am concerned, and the evacuation operation that led to this. Like everyone else in this room, it really hits me. Why is that? Because it's all about people. It's about people that you and I may have talked to, at least those I spoke to. People with faces, people with stories, who end up making a difficult decision to leave their homeland because it's unsafe. And that's when they've often contributed to an international mission in their country. It is very hard for them to escape the country that we wanted to make safer after 20 years. It was discussed today: 30,000 soldiers, diplomats, development workers and police officers have been working for this in the last 20 years. In this difficult work, Afghans have repeatedly risen to work for our missions as an interpreter to help us make their country safer in the end. That was brave. I talked to some of them myself when I was in Afghanistan. I have said before that I have a very double feeling about it when I look back at what has happened now. Our military and diplomats, Mr Kaag, have already done a huge job during the evacuation operation. You saw the footage yourself, and some of you helped. The extremely chaotic conditions of people brought in over barbed wire, over walls and out of the ditch. Mr Van Wijngaarden also said it. That was under a constant threat of a terrorist attack, which unfortunately also occurred when our people were about to leave. Not hours later, but five minutes later. I've talked to men and women about that. This resulted in many deaths: 170 Afghans and 13 American soldiers. As Mr Kaag said, we have stayed until the last minute and have been committed to getting the last slots to fly away to evacuate as many people as possible. Of course, a lot of things did not go well in the run-up and in those chaotic circumstances. As has been said, we have been overwhelmed by the rapid rise of the Taliban. That speed was really the point and we have to look back on it. I agree with what has been said on our behalf. Of course, I've been thinking about it, too. Looking at the people I'm responsible for, the people we're all responsible for, the people who worked in the Defense Department, what could have been better? I am extremely proud of the men and women, like the members of the Chamber who have said so, and of the work they have done. I was with the Prime Minister and Minister Kaag at the team's return to Eindhoven, and you saw that it had become a team. They've all been working 24 hours a day to get people to safety. When I look at the part of my responsibility, I think that we in the Netherlands should have thought much earlier about the responsibilities for the local people who work for us. This has been raised by a number of Members of your Chamber, for the interpreters in particular, and this really needs to be improved. We'll have to register that from the start. We need to register that with names, with phone numbers and e-mail addresses and not just with an interpreter card that doesn't have anything on it. That good registration should be there from the beginning of every mission. We didn't have one right now. That should have been different, and it should have been better in the future. What does that mean to me? In this case, I feel responsible as an employer, as Mrs Kaag spoke of the people working for the Foreign Office, to do everything possible to get the interpreters to safety even further. You can rest assured that at least we will not let them go. We have the same goal. The interpretation system, which must also be said, is infinite. And that is a transition to the interpreters. Since 2014, we have had a procedure for interpreting, which, unlike in other countries, has always been without end. This arrangement is jointly implemented by Foreign Affairs, Defence and JenV. This procedure has always been adapted to the circumstances and has become more proactive, even after the debates with your Chamber. In 2019, the scheme was amended following the Belhaj motion. From that moment on, interpreters were regarded as systematically persecuted groups, which meant that they no longer had to be assessed individually. This made it possible to work faster. Then I'll look at the stand until August 15th. Until 15 August, 111 interpreters and their families had come to the Netherlands. That's about 500 people. 43 of them came to the Netherlands between 1 June and 15 August of this year. During the same period, this is a good indication of how that changed, as interpreters have to report to the Court of Auditors and 246 new applications have been received. That was when the interpreters themselves, the people who worked for us, came up with the idea that the situation and the urgency quickly changed. On August 15, we shared that with your Chamber of 67 interpreters that they had worked for Defence or the police. They got out of there. Charters could also have been removed, but unfortunately some of them could not land. 45 people left Afghanistan with their families during the evacuation. You have to do that times five every time you think about it. 22 are still in Afghanistan. I'll check that list specifically later, because that's what was asked. After 15 August 430 people were evacuated who worked for us. I think it would be good to say something about the evacuation procedure. I'll answer the questions as well. Mr Ceder also asked about this and Mr Kaag replied. Interpreters were brought to the Netherlands by commercial flights until the Taliban took over power. That was the consular evacuation we agreed to. We accelerated the process. I can also comment on this if necessary. That was the line. That was the quickest option, because the civil airport was open and the Afghan government is the authority responsible for Afghans' exit. In the operational planning for the military evacuation, account was taken of the inclusion of Afghan interpreters with their families, who were checked by the Defense Department on 15 August and were also approved. That was the 67 interpreters. At first it was consular evacuation and later it became military evacuation, because that was the only thing left. In those plans, the interpreters were simply on the list. That's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u583	I'm just waiting for the minister to finish the interpreter block. Then there's room for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u584	I shall now turn to the questions on the 22, which Mrs Belhaj also mentioned. By the way, several Members of your Chamber have spoken about this. Indeed, our information is that 22 out of 67 interpreters have been left behind in Afghanistan. You heard. That's 22 people who were already checked by the DOD on August 15th. They were allowed to be transferred to the Netherlands with their families. We know exactly who they are. I've got a list here, anonymized, so I know exactly who they are. The questions were about when they submitted their application. Of these 22 interpreters, 12 people have applied very recently, namely after 1 June 2021: two in June, three in July and seven in August. So that was just at the end. They were allowed to come anyway. They were able to take part in the interpretation policy. So it was 12 after 1 June. The remaining ten have not come on consular flights before. Three applicants or their family members, which is also possible, did not have a passport. That's why they couldn't get on a commercial flight. Four applicants didn't want to leave until their extended family was invited. You know that policy is the core family. We've already talked about that. One of the ten applicants was already in the Netherlands, but returned to Afghanistan himself. Whoever went back there. He hasn't come back yet. One of them just proved convincingly late that he had worked with us too. Then there's the question of the contacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u585	A point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u586	I deliberately asked that question in the actual round of questions, because it is very closely listening. I'm trying to follow what the minister says. I think it's a little messy. I guess it's me, considering the time. Can't we have that on paper? Then I've got what the Minister is saying right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u587	I'll finish it, but you can get it quietly on paper from me. So there were 12 of them who had only recently submitted their application. Others had submitted their application before 1 June, but did not want to leave. Someone had also returned to Afghanistan. We can indicate that exactly in your direction. There's 10 of them, and there's 22 of them together. Because we're not letting go of those 22, we're trying to keep in touch with them. We're trying to do that over the phone. There were more and more applications, as I said at the beginning. They've been checked. Some of the people after August 15th have been taken into the evacuation. 430 people have come here. Some of them are new people who had come in late. I'll make sure Mrs. Belhaj gets this on paper. Then she can see it. There was a specific question about Mr Wali.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u588	Mr President, on a point of order. I'd like to get that right now. Maybe a copy could be made so I can have it in front of me. It listens very closely. I would have liked to have done it sooner, but if someone could do it right now, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u589	They're listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u590	I take it that's heard. They're listening. I assume that the state I have declared to you can be given. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Wali's case which was asked for. I've already indicated that not everyone had checked in before August 15th. You have to report as an interpreter if you're gonna be able to get here. Anyone who hasn't checked in until after 15 August has also been checked by us very quickly. I very much agree with Mr Boswijk, I thought it was him that it was obvious that there were several Afghan interpreters at the gate who were not evacuated, because of the hustle and bustle, because of the circumstances and so on. It was, that's what our commandos who were standing there say, really a war situation. They also saw people dying there, and saw people despondently throwing their children over the fence. They were really terrible situations. We know Mr Wali's case. By the way, he hasn't been an interpreter; I think it's good to know. He's the son of a governor. I looked at it myself after one of our veterans brought him in, because a lot of interpreters had been helped by him. He's on the list. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to get here. But he just stays on the list as one of the people who will be brought here if we can do it again. Mrs Kaag has already said something about this. Mrs Piri asked why interpreters had not already received exit visas. That is what the Court had asked for on 7 July, along with a number of other points. Indeed, we have been informed of this at several times, and we have also taken steps in writing to speed up the process. For example, in order to do the utmost to provide interpreters with rapid visas, in mid-July already the capacity of the Embassy consular department in Kabul has been strengthened with an additional consular officer from The Hague and a local consular officer, in accordance with Mrs Piri's motion of 8 July. However, the exit visas were not the bottleneck in the process. In particular, the bottleneck was the condition that all interpreters and their families, because Afghanistan is a country, had to have an Afghan passport for their exit from Afghanistan. That is and was a demand of the Afghan government, as any country makes that demand. We also do this in the Netherlands, with a view to combating child abductions, a project with which your former colleague Coşkun Çörüz is very active, as far as you remember him, and which the Marechaussee is also working on here at Schiphol. People can't just leave their country without a passport. Picking up people without passports in another country is trafficking in human beings. That also makes the whole thing very complicated. We have often talked about this, but that is the reality. It was only when Kabul was taken by the Taliban that that demand fell, or rather: that demand was no longer maintained. At that moment, we were able to pick up people massively. So that was actually the bottleneck in the project and not the visa.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u591	Are you at the end of your block?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u592	I'll take a look. No, four or five more questions, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u593	Then we'll hold off on interrupting. We have made the choice of interrupting at the end of the block. Mr Ceder also wanted to respond. So why don't you finish up your block? After that, everyone will have an extensive opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u594	That was also Mrs Piri's subsequent question: why did these criteria not be adapted until 14 August? Only when the Taliban took over power could we do so. So as soon as there was no passport requirement, we could also bring people without passports here. The interpreters who have already met the requirements were simply put by us on commercial flights every time. They were also allowed to leave the country if they agreed to do so. Then Mrs Belhaj asked: why did you continue with these commercial flights? That was the only way to get interpreters here. We've done everything we can with each other, through the embassy and through the identification we've added veterans to, as requested by the Chamber, to identify people as soon as possible, to put them on a commercial flight and get them here. Even in corona time we did that, I can tell you. We have also quarantined people in other countries to get them here. But we could actually only do this. That's the process of consular evacuation. That was the only way to get people here, through scheduled flights and charters. There were no possible flights from other countries either. At that stage, the Defense Department is not doing anything in support. Only when the military evacuation is in order can that be different, but that was not necessary because people could leave the country. Not everyone wanted to leave then either. But it's about people in the end. Most of them didn't want to leave until the end. That's why it's been commercial for so long. The primary option of evacuation plans is a civilian option. The security situation just allowed that, too. Kabul Airport was open until 15 August. Commercial flights can also be operated much faster in these circumstances. I have two more questions. A question was raised by Mr Van Wijngaarden. He asked who's sending on the interpreter file at the DOD. Foreign Affairs, Defence and the IND are jointly responsible for interpreting the dossier, each on its own responsibility. The embassy maintained contact with the interpreters and ensured the registration. That has just been discussed. Defense needs to check if an interpreter has worked for the Defense Department and facilitated the trip. The IND checks whether the conditions for residence are met, then agrees to the issue of a visa and takes over the process in the Netherlands. In DOD, that's a whole team. They are also military, I say in the direction of Mr Van Wijngaarden. The policy staff consists of both civilians and military. We've added veterans to that. That was also discussed in the Chamber. One of the veterans was also mentioned by name in the Chamber. When it comes to operations, they are, of course, military in operations and military in executive units. Then I'll get to the last question. That question belongs to Mr Ceder. He asked how the cabinet now looks at the interpretation arrangements. In 2014 agreements had already been made on the transfer of Afghan interpreters and staff to the Netherlands. In 2019, in response to the Belhaj/Voordewind motion, we indicated that these interpreters were given the protected status. This special status continues to exist and will be maintained if it has been demonstrated that they have worked for the Netherlands as part of the international military mission or police mission. Then they can come to Holland. The interpretation procedure will also continue forever. The Netherlands differs from other countries. There's no end date for the interpreting scheme. The cabinet takes this arrangement very seriously. We're gonna do everything we can, just like we've always done, to get them here. In my view, these are the questions that have been asked about the interpreters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u595	Thank you. Let me turn to the list: Mr Cedar of the Christian Union, Mr Boswijk of the CDA, Mrs Piri of the PvdA, Mrs Belhaj of D66, Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD, Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Bromet and Mrs Simons. First of all, Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u596	As the Minister knows, the Piri c.s. motion is on 3 June. Adopted. That's what I'm under. Part of the motion is "calls on the government to draw up an evacuation plan based on the principle of "no man left behind" in case the security situation on the ground deteriorates further." I hear the minister say there were commercial flights. I understand all that, but this motion, or part of it, naturally sees the situation that is no longer possible and that the situation is deteriorating and that there should be an evacuation plan. The question I have put to the Foreign Minister is therefore also addressed to the Minister of Defence. The documents in the evacuation plan show that the interpreters were not included. Was there a separate evacuation plan for the interpreters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u597	The evacuation plan for the interpreters, I have just explained it to you. The first thing is consular evacuation, because there was no other situation in Afghanistan. This may include scheduled flights, charters and evacuation flights with other partner countries or EU countries. It was a country and you weren't allowed to kidnap people. The interpreters were just on the evacuation list before the military evacuation. If a military evacuation were ever to be discussed, they would have been on that list. Of course, it has been stressed that this was the case and that the interpreters were there, should there even be military extraction, because this was a category that was always allowed to come to the Netherlands. Unlike other categories, this was therefore a category that should always come to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u598	Thank you for the answer. I heard the Foreign Minister say that interpreters were not included in the evacuation plans that were shared with the Chamber today because they were not included. Now, here's what I'm asking. An evacuation plan is something you put on paper. So I wonder if there is anything on paper regarding the evacuation plan for interpreters. If not, do you agree with me that this motion, or at least that part of it, has not been carried out? Is there anything on paper and if so, can the Chamber get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u599	The motion was carried out in the sense that the motion was about: you need to speed up and you need to get the people here. At first, that consular evacuation was done. In the case of military evacuation, the interpreters have been added on paper as well, if necessary. If, therefore, there were military evacuation, the interpreters should not only be evacuated with their families. So that's just part of the planning. This has been taken into account in the planning that was made military, including in the numbers that we had in mind at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u600	Let me clarify a question. It has just been mentioned that the interpretation system is not working. That makes sense. That's what we agreed on. So that includes the police interpreters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u601	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u602	Okay. Clear. I had another question, but I'm still waiting for some information on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u603	Okay. Mrs Piri of the PvdA and then Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u604	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. If we are working with cubes, while a lot of subjects are covered in one block and we are also restricting ourselves to two interruptions, then I do have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u605	I get that. Sometimes it's hard to figure out what a block looks like. Sometimes they're short cubes and sometimes they're more extensive. But I think you have just noticed that I am giving you a great deal of room for interruptions, including with the Foreign Minister, and that is what I want to do with the Minister of Defence. But in doing so, I would like to make an appointment to ask short questions, not very long introductions. Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u606	I'm worried about the fact that the numbers are still unknown. Last week the Minister told the press that there were 30 or 31 interpreters left behind. Apparently there are 9 interpreters to the Netherlands in the last week, because now there are 22. I also see in the answer to the factual questions that we do not really know whether there are perhaps many more in those e-mails. But that's an observation. Then my question. My motion of 7 July contains two elements: first, to issue a laissez-passer. That decision was only made the day before the fall of Kabul, on 14 August. Why didn't you inform the Chamber earlier and say that those laissez-passers were apparently not accepted by the Afghan authority? My second question during that debate was as follows. The Germans, who were with us in Mazar-e-Sharif, issued 2,000 visas to local staff before the departure of their soldiers. This has been confirmed in the German Parliament and by the German Government. Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u607	We've been working on that interpreting arrangement for a long time. Those interpreters were always allowed to come here. That was the arrangement we had. About the laissez-passers: a laissez-passer cannot be issued for residents in their own country. People need to be able to travel from that country, and they need a passport for that. That was the situation. It just needed a passport, because the Afghans demanded it. We couldn't say until that was no longer the case, for everyone: come, you can come, you get a laissez-passer and you can come here. That was the situation. That is very disgusting to me, but that is the reality. People were allowed to come here, but of course they had to comply with the rules of the country. A lot of people did it. We brought 111 people here before that time. They're about 500 people. We now know that 45 people have gone with the evacuation. That's about 430 people. Those are interpreters who have worked for us and for the police, as has just been said. So we've done everything we can to make that happen. The Kabul Embassy also discussed your motion in July, for example to stop having the translations and to see how the checks on identity documents were carried out. But the required travel documents were simply requested by the Afghan Government and also by the airlines. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u608	I am dizzy by the numbers, but one thing we know for sure, namely that there are still dozens of interpreters who have worked for us, certainly in Afghanistan, despite two motions. A laissez-passer is just when you don't have a passport. I think that's right... it's an exit document you can hand over. In concrete terms, one last question. July 7th, you got a second motion on your pants because you didn't carry out the first one. That motion says: hand over a laissez-passer or now give visas to people if we know they've been identified and that you were their employer. My question is: if you, as a cabinet, do not decide to issue laissez-passer until 14 August, which, of course, was no longer useful on 14 August, how can you not inform the Chamber between 7 July and 14 August that this is a problem? And have you, as the Chamber asked for visas, issued travel documents to interpreters who were still in the process, but who we already knew had worked for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u609	It is true that laissez-passers are delivered by us. But it didn't apply to the Afghan government as an exit document. That was the problem before August 14th. People weren't allowed to take that on a commercial flight. They just weren't allowed to travel with that, because then they needed a passport. That's how it's arranged. We have also arranged this in the Netherlands. You must travel with a valid travel document. After August 14, of course, there was no government... there was still a government, but there was no government that controlled that. Then we could travel in those other ways. But it remains that you need an exit certificate to travel out and that evidence is a passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u610	Indeed, we had a very important debate on 8 July. This motion was also tabled or adopted by Mrs Piri and others. We were very worried about the interpreters at the time. We then indicated: come up with an evacuation plan. This is separate from the other group, for which we later tabled a motion for a resolution. You say the evacuation plan involved regular flights. But that wasn't what the Chamber indicated to you. And as Secretary of Defense, you have the opportunity to deploy military resources if necessary. That's all in the motion, that's all been said by us. So why did you continue with regular flights, in which the problem you describe was an obstacle all the time? Why didn't you tell me I'm gonna do it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u611	Even if we were on a flight to pick up people ourselves... That was not the issue, because in the meantime we have had a lot of people here, as you can see in the figures. But even then, as a government, we are not allowed to kidnap people. They must have a valid exit certificate, a passport, and we must also know, for example, whether children are the children of the man or the woman standing there, because children must not be kidnapped just like that. So there is a need for something more than just picking people up. Also with a military flight would have always needed papers, because we cannot kidnap people in a country. That is the reality. Those people didn't have exit papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u612	An explanation is given. That law is there for a reason. But if you were able to ignore that law later, you could have done so before, apart from the Taliban being there. You said at the time: now I think it is legitimate to kidnap children. That's a weird reasoning, isn't it? If you did that at that stage, couldn't you have done that before? There were also children taken here on a flight from whom probably the papers weren't complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u613	'Cause it's okay now. It is very nasty and annoying, and I understand the question in that sense very well. But people can't just travel out of a country without valid papers. And then it doesn't matter. The situation around 15 August has, of course, changed completely. Well, Mr Kaag has already said a lot about that. But every military flight also requires papers. In such an evacuation plan, evacuation plans, what matters then, the interpreters are simply taken away. They have also been added to the military evacuation. But it's initially a consular evacuation. The legitimate authority was of course gone from that time on. That meant that you could operate differently then, by the way, in a very chaotic situation, which I mentioned at the beginning. But that was the only way. There was no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u614	Finally, I would like to go through the chairman, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u615	I haven't had so many interruptions, but I understand your call. The minister's been telling me she had no choice. But there are a lot of ways to find alternatives to evacuate people. That's what we said then: try using military bases, try using illegal routes, try using safehouses, try contacting Pakistan if necessary; we don't care. You sound like a bureaucrat in this whole thing by saying "I couldn't help myself." The Chamber has said: you have carte blanche; what you have to do, do it, because these people are in acute danger. It is remarkable that you did not do that, especially since I see on this list that before that debate on 8 July, so before that motion was there, there are five people who are still there, but should have been here by now. So that's five.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u616	Now you're assuming that everyone wanted to come here. That is, of course, the question. People had to report if they wanted to come here. There's one person on the list who was in the Netherlands and who went back. In this sense, interpreters are also people who make independent assessments. You can see that some did not have a passport. Some have considered that they did not want to leave until there was extended family. You know that's not the situation. Some people just didn't respond to the repeated calls that were sent. One guy didn't turn in his papers till late. But all these people were allowed to come to the Netherlands and will also be allowed to come to the Netherlands if they want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u617	That's the nasty part. I'm kind of glad I got the overview. The Minister states that 12 of the 22 interpreters recently applied after 1 June 2021: two after 1 June, three after 1 July and seven after 1 August. Of the remaining ten, three applicants did not have a passport and so on, the list you just mentioned. But I'm talking about the twelve. Of those 12, five people were already on the list for the debate we had with the Chamber. Of those five, we told you when you knew it: at least you have to evacuate those five and you have to make every effort to get them to the Netherlands. So these five are still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u618	There is also something to be said about this. One of those five only wanted it if they had extended family. That wasn't the situation. Another was already on the list of a charter that didn't land. That's how it's done. None of the people who are still there, let's leave them to their fate. We try to contact those people with phone calls and e-mails, but the situation was that until August 15 there was legitimate authority. I myself find it very horrible, but in that sense we could not deal with it differently. That doesn't mean we didn't make all kinds of other plans. Mr Kaag has also mentioned this. The military evacuation has indeed been the next stage, but that has already been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u619	Thank you. I shall give the floor briefly to Mr Boswijk, because he had another question, and then to Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Bromet, Mrs Simons and Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u620	I understand that until August 15th, we were dealing with a legitimate government and you can't just push everyone on a plane and take them with you. I understand the situation is different a day later. But I would like to come back to the situation of Wali, which we have talked about several times. He signed up on June 1st. On 15 August Kabul falls and on 19 August he was informed that his application had been approved. That is long after we have adopted that motion. In the period between August 19th and August 25th, he made several attempts, but was sent away twice at the gate because his papers and his name did not match. That is why I have a question for the Minister. Maybe I could have put it to the Foreign Minister, but I'll put it to Minister Bijleveld. Why wasn't there an interpreter when we know those people are taking Afghan documents? Finally, on 25 August, a paper was made with the names of him and his family on the foreign affairs letter paper. Why was this not done until 25 August, when on 20 August I happen to know that there have already been cases and those letters have already been made there? Why did five days be lost and why didn't that just happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u621	I do not know that in this particular case. The process you're describing is correct. That's what happened. There were letters made, including people's names on them so they could reach someone. So people need to check in. Of course, if someone makes an application, that does not mean that it was approved the next day. They also look at this: is it Mr.Wali, who are the people who have to go with it, etc. I can't say exactly why that took five days. I know it worked. We then had a number of charters in the process, as you know. We chartered C-17s to pick up interpreters, among other things. That's what we started on that Monday, August 16th. They've come regular all the time. We then tried to complete it on the next few days, to bring as many people as possible, including from other countries, if we didn't have enough people inside ourselves. We have called on other countries to allow all these aircraft to leave in full. So I can't quite see exactly how that went in this individual case. Application is not immediately approved, but when it was approved he could of course just go along. It's really awful that that didn't work out. By the way, I know there's daily contact with this gentleman. One of our veterans gets in touch with him every day, by phone. I'm assuming he's in the group we're getting here as soon as possible, because we know where he is and what his situation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u622	Finally, Mr Boswijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u623	I've asked two questions that haven't been answered. Why wasn't there an interpreter when we know people are coming with Afghan documents? You cannot expect Dutch soldiers, whom we already demand a great deal, to be able to decipher Afghan documents. I still find it special that on 20 August it was already known that you really had to have a letter on Dutch stationery, with clearly written Arabic letters I believe. Or Roman letters, of course, because Arabic letters don't help you. Why is that in this case, I understand that you cannot make statements about individual cases, but it is precisely in this case that enormous lobbying has not been possible? If it does not succeed in this case, it seems impossible to me for other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u624	A lot of cases have worked out, as you know. I have also been in contact with Mr Boswijk, as with a number of other Members of your Chamber. I can't say exactly. What I do know is that there was an interpreter available. But it was a very chaotic situation. There were indeed interpreters present. I saw that, too, that there wasn't. There was not always every commando and interpreter, because they had to pay attention to the safety of the interpreter. That is also the situation that is at stake. These people were really there at risk for their own lives. I spoke to a commando who said, "We also faced moral-ethical dilemmas. I'll paint it for you, too. If I have to look for one person in such a group that happens to have been mentioned by an MP or by an NGO and on the other hand there are five or six people I can just get in, that's important to us too." Of course, there are many more than the people who went around the Netherlands in those app groups evacuated. We need to realize that too. That's 1,879. I've talked to this man about that, and I understand how complicated that is. So there was an interpreter. Unfortunately, things sometimes went wrong because of the chaos, the interpreter was not at the place it was about, but there were indeed interpreters. Furthermore, interpreters were also present at the consular team.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u625	Thank you. I would also like to ask you to answer the questions more specifically and to give a little less context. It's not you. It's the timing. I can see that from the reactions in the Chamber. Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u626	The Minister mentioned extractions in the beginning. Also in the answers to questions I asked with almost all the spokesmen in this room, it was about some of the soldiers present assisting the evacues to reach the airport. We must also note, even for the precision of this debate, that these extractions have not taken place at all. I would like to hear from the Minister, also in military terms. I understand the Americans didn't want that, but there are countries that did. So I'm really curious what the valuation has been there on the spot. Why didn't that happen? Was that a shortage of men, a shortage of equipment perhaps, or was it really the Americans' ban? What was that about and how does the Minister look back on the fact that other countries did?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u627	It is not the case that all kinds of countries have made extractions from Kabul itself. I think that's good to know, too. There was just talk of the Germans' helicopters. The Germans' helicopters never flew. They didn't bring people from Kabul to the airport. They were there, they were announced, but they never flew. We, too, have put helicopters in place. We had to hire a Antonov aircraft to fly them there; that is certainly true, but that was no longer the case at the time. It was really unsafe in that situation. That meant things like that didn't actually happen. So at and around the airport, our commandos operated. Not only our commandos, but also the special forces, the MARSOF, were there. They have indeed done reconnaissances with the BSB's who were present. What you saw is that a risk weighting has always been made in relation to the result achieved with it. In my opinion, people were very cleverly brought in at a gate where the English were in charge initially in cooperation with the Germans, but with the English it was better. That has given a much better result. So it's always weighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u628	I really find that because the term 'extractions' was also used, they did not take place because of the military assessment that the risk was too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u629	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u630	Thank you. Then Mr Omtzigt and then Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u631	Around 9 and 10 August, the evacuation plan will be drawn up for the embassy staff. That is written by the State Department and the Defense Department together, we read in the letter. So there's a meeting where the ministers sit and draw up the evacuation plan. At the same time, there are 67 interpreters with their families, families who still have to be removed. Is there a meeting? Phases 3 and 4 concern military extraction. At the time of military extraction, of course, you will never be able to put interpreters on a regular flight again. How come in such a discussion no one says: 'Hey, in this evacuation plan must the interpreters in phase 1 or 2 be transferred to the Netherlands immediately or they must be subject to military evacuation'? How come they weren't included in the plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u632	One. It wasn't a military extraction. That was the final phase. It didn't happen. We had consular evacuation and military evacuation. That's the point. Those two plans are it. The last one wasn't executed. It was not a ministerial meeting, by the way. It is true that the interpreters were appointed there. I just reported it to you. They've been added to the military evacuation plan. I've reported that to you, too. In reply to Mr Ceder, I also indicated this. They were just added to the list for military evacuation. This has also been taken into account in capacity planning, including families.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u633	And where exactly were they in that schematic? Or was there another schedule somewhere? Or did I miss them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u634	They have been added to the planning that has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u635	But how come they're not in that play? Did I miss that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u636	I think... At that time... The interpreters were of course a very separate category, because we have been working on that for years. There's a separate arrangement for that. That system had to be applied in all cases. That meant that they always belonged to the people who belonged to it. They have simply been added to the military evacuation plans, appointed in those discussions and added to the capacity planning. So this group could always be taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u637	I would like to come back to Mr Ceder, who spoke about commercial flights. As of January, the Ministry knew that STIVD had indicated that the Taliban would take over Afghanistan. It has always been said about the interpreters: we are going to do commercial flights. Why? Has a plan been drawn up for the moment when commercial flights would no longer be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u638	The evacuation escalation works as follows. You have consular evacuation first. That has also been explained by Mrs Kaag. You will have to remember, for example, what happened in Wuhan. Consular evacuation takes place with scheduled flights, charters and evacuation flights from others. There's no involvement of the Defense Department. Then we'll have the military evacuation. That plan always includes the interpreters. That's what I reported. Then it's about military transport and capacity. That's what we're looking at with the partners. There's a limited risk of that. That's done. This concerns the NEO situation, the evacuation of Dutch nationals from abroad and the groups we have added to it. Mrs Kaag said something about responsibility. In the end, this will be a military operation, which will contribute to the evacuation and support it. That's some kind of support operation. The commander of the NEO operation will support the head of the Foreign Affairs evacuation mission on the ground. In this category, interpreters and other employees have always been included.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u639	I am concerned with the question of when the last commercial plane left and when the first military plane arrived. Wouldn't it have been much more convenient to start military flights earlier, precisely because of the lack of passports for some people who are still in Afghanistan and who could have gone on those military flights with a laissez-passer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u640	I already answered that question. With a laissez-passer no Afghans without a passport could go on a military flight. That was an exit requirement of the Afghans, so people couldn't just come to the airport and get on a plane.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u641	Mrs Simons, Mrs Van der Plas, Mr Jansen and Mr Van Haga. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u642	Mr President, may I add one more thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u643	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u644	We have already added defence personnel to reconnaissance missions there in January and April. We have also set up a military liaison in Islamabad to prepare for a situation where Kabul would fall, because we would only have military flights. We had to have a hub where we could fly on with our material. That's Pakistan. I also spoke to the Secretary of Defense about this. All countries have actually done so in the same way as we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u645	I think you mean the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u646	What did I say? I spoke to the Ministers of Defence about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u647	Oh, the Defence Ministers! I thought you had a conversation with yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u648	Also with the Foreign Minister, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u649	It is always nice when rulers come to their senses and learn lessons from their own actions, but I am afraid that we are hearing today that one of these lessons after twenty years is that administration needs to be improved. After twenty years of presence, we did not know who did and who did not work for us in what context, so that we could evacuate these people in a dignified manner. I would like to hear a brief reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u650	I started that. I'm not okay with that. That's what I said, and I reflected on that, too. I think that's one of the crazy things myself. Even if we had issued 273 interpreters' passes, I do not know if Mrs Simons was in those debates, then there was a name on it, but no address, telephone number, etc. That's just really not good, so it really needs to be better. We all have to do better than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u651	"That's gotta be better." Aren't you stunned yourself? How can that exist if you rely on locals for 20 years and know that you also put them in mortal danger by leaning on them, that they depend on you for their safety? Surely everyone has at least taken into account the fact that the war would come to an end at any time, in any way whatsoever? Then it is a bit lame to say: "Yes, that is actually a lesson. The next time we're out there for 20 years and leaning on the locals, we also need to keep some records on these people"? I find it so easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u652	It's by no means easy. We've all seen how complicated it was to like and administer people. So it's by no means easy. It's just not right that that didn't happen. That's why things have to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u653	Mrs Van der Plas van BBB, and then Mr Jansen and Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u654	I'll go on at that point. In fact, the list we received contains the remaining ten: three applicants did not have a passport for themselves or their family members, and one applicant did not provide convincing evidence until the end of July. If you come into employment somewhere in the Netherlands and start working, there is a checklist for employers. Employers must check the identity of employees before the first working day. This is called an identification or verification obligation. The employer is obliged to make a copy of a passport or ID card, and is obliged to register with a tax office as an employer. It's even gonna take another dog, but I get that that's hard in Afghanistan. So I understand that our ministries in countries where there is war, and where terrorists live, are hiring people whose origin they do not know at all, where they do not know where they come from, because there is no identity known. To be honest, I'm a little concerned about that, apart from the fact that those people cannot be evacuated. I wonder how many countries our government works like that, with locals who can't identify themselves. How is the security of the employees at these embassies or in public services abroad secured if we do not know at all which people we work with?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u655	This has also been discussed in an earlier debate. It is true that there is a slight check on the people who work there and that we also know who we work with. But they're people who often worked for us years ago. It's not always people who've worked for us till the end. They're getting a slight screening. I believe that I and the committee debate have also said to you that this is indeed not the way it is in the Netherlands. There's a different way to do that, but they're being screened. The problem is, we didn't keep records after that. So we know just how many passes we've spent, but we haven't written it down anymore, with names, addresses etc. And that's just not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u656	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u657	I'm sorry, I'm really freaked out about this, really. I find it really unimaginable, apart from the committee debate, that I can remember very well. That is where I asked the same question. That was said during the debate: yes, but they did have passports. So it just doesn't seem like it. But I'm really shocked because we're in a lot of countries with a lot of people working for us. They work with people who are lightly screened or perhaps not screened at all, of which no identity is known at all. My question hasn't been answered yet. Again, how is the safety of our people abroad guaranteed when we work with such people? Here are four, but I would like to have a list of all the other people working with a light screening or without ID. How is safety guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u658	I have... in the committee debate... They didn't have a passport, but they did have a Tazkira, an Afghan ID they could identify with. So they've definitely been screened. We also need to make a distinction. This is different for embassy staff, because they are employed by the Netherlands and have to meet other requirements. There the screening is quite different from the identity check, a background check that happens. These are mission staff, so people who have worked for a mission, sometimes shorter, sometimes longer. This problem, which we are now facing, has been well explained by Minister Kaag on behalf of the cabinet. None of the assumptions we have made have come true; this has never happened in such a large extent. Other countries are also struggling with this. In practice, a country such as Afghanistan is, of course, a very tough and complicated country. That is just the reality and the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u659	"A harsh and complicated country" I think is the understatement of the year. But I still have no answer to my question: in how many countries does this happen with such a light screening without identity? And is the safety of our employees in other countries, other embassies and other public services guaranteed? Because I am very sorry, but how the Minister gives this answer, I actually hear in her voice that she is afraid of this too and that she does not really have a good answer to it either. But we do work with a lot of people abroad...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u660	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u661	...who just want to get home safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u662	There's a difference between working with people abroad, so embassy staff, and people who work on missions. The screening is indeed different in that sense. But it has never been the case that so many people suddenly had to come here from a country that has been completely destroyed. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u663	Thank you. I shall first give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then to Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u664	I'm a little dizzy. I just heard from Minister Kaag that there was no evacuation plan from the Foreign Office, while the Foreign Office was the main responsibility. Now I hear the Secretary of Defense say that there was both a consular and a military evacuation plan, and the interpreters were added to the military evacuation plan. What kind of evacuation plan was actually missing? And maybe we can get both evacuation plans? Then we can see if these are really professional plans. I think there is a bit of good grace with so-called plans, but there is a plan that is missing and there are two plans that have been implemented. I wonder what plan was missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u665	This is just how the process goes. Such a process of evacuating is a phasering. The phasing in the evacuation plans is always: first consular. This can apply to all kinds of situations. When the need comes, the NEO and the military evacuation are at stake. That is the phasering that is being carried out. That's what plans have been made for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u666	This doesn't make any sense. It's just been said that there was no plan from the State Department. At some point there are no more soldiers, except the military attaché. Then the military evacuation plan is out the window. Then we're dependent on the consular evacuation. This concerns the BSB, which might do a little bit more. But I do not understand at all who carried out the last evacuation plan at what time, and whether it existed at that time. Because the military evacuation plan wasn't at all on the agenda at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u667	I do not quite understand at what point Mr Van Haga is referring to. There was always a consular evacuation plan, which has always been discussed, that is via those scheduled flights as explained by Mr Kaag. At the moment when there are no more flights and no more commercial charters to land, military planes are all you have left. That's the military's own operation that's gonna start. That's how it's arranged, so that's a phaser in the evacuation plans and steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u668	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u669	So that's from August 15th. We had the first charter on August 16th, but it could not land because the airport was not safe. Then our Hercules planes came and we flew back and forth as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u670	I still don't understand. At some point, the embassy staff leaves. Then another delegation comes back and I think there is only one military attaché present. Then the Foreign Minister says that there is no plan, and you say that that military attaché alone is going to carry out a whole evacuation plan for the interpreters. That's not how it works, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u671	No. No one was present at all, because the military attaché went on the last plane. He went along the day they had to leave with the temporary defendant. So no one was present anymore; that is what Minister Kaag explained. But these plans are made here by crisis coordination, our management operations. That is why at that time we had someone in Islamabad who was preparing the logistics for when it was necessary to evacuate only militaryly. It was a coincidence that someone was there at the time, but then we could make speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u672	I am still looking at Mr Van Haga, because I do not have the idea that his question has been answered. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u673	Not at all, Mr. Chairman. But maybe we can just get those evacuation plans, then we can judge it ourselves. I can't imagine anyone from Islamabad coordinating the entire Dutch evacuation plan. The Foreign Minister just said she was responsible, but there was no plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u674	Mr Jansen, then Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mrs Belhaj, Mr Kuzu, and I think Mrs Piri also wanted to say something. Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u675	I have a very different question. As you know, America has left tens of billions of stuff in Afghanistan, making the Taliban the world's best-armed terrorist group. Those are absurd numbers: 360,000 guns, those lists are really bizarre. In her answer to the factual questions, the Minister indicated that although the Netherlands has left less, but also more stuff behind. In addition, the Minister writes that they have gone to allies, but I was wondering which allies they have been and whether she knows if those things might have come into the Taliban's hands now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u676	I can't answer that. Is it possible to reply to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u677	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u678	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u679	I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u680	I believe that precision is important in this debate, as is the point of reflection. When I hear the Minister about the reason why there were no interpreters at the gates, which has had major consequences, I think it is a slightly different story. Is it because they weren't there, I understand there was only one interpreter at that airport, or was it too much work for the command? At the same time, the German route mentioned by Mrs Piri was the issuing of travel visas. If we had done so, we would have been asked by the Chamber prematurely and those interpreters would have been able to leave Afghanistan with a visa in hand over land. Does the Minister share this? Then the point of inertia. I'm missing some reflection. I think that is important in this debate. That's what we all asked for. I have mentioned in my contribution the slowness and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u681	Ask the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u682	Well, for example, I am looking at the decision-making, actual questions, the outcome of the consultation on 10 and 11 August. Arrival August 10th: we hire a charter. Arrival August 11th: we hire a charter. Exactly the same. That could have happened on 10 August. I'm still trying to hear from the Minister how she looks back on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u683	I, like Mr Van Wijgaarden, have that uncomfortable feeling, but we did hire those charters. They've been hired. The first would land August 16th. Then there was a completely different situation at that airport than expected, so he couldn't land. He had to go back. Otherwise, the first people would have been in there. So there were all kinds of charters in the planning, also because we thought: this is ultimately the only way to get it done. There were interpreters from various countries at the gates. Those interpreters were also used by the Dutch task force. So there were really interpreters out there. We did that to each other and picked it up. The Netherlands also had an embassy interpreter on the spot. So it is true that there were interpreters present and that we have tried to do so as well as possible in a very complicated situation. We used allies' interpreters if we couldn't do it ourselves. And then things didn't go well. Examples have already been mentioned. But a lot went well, too. That's the terrible thing about this situation. Our people have worked with man and power to get as many people inside that airport as possible and to fill those flights.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u684	Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u685	And I do not think the interpreters were the problem there at the end. Maybe in a single case, but in most cases not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u686	I don't hear the minister talking about the German route and the travel visas. How does she look back on that? Couldn't we have started that earlier? And wouldn't that have caused you a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u687	Even then... With travel visas, people couldn't get out at the time. People had to have a valid passport to eventually get on a flight, because we've evacuated people on line flights. We have always looked very strongly at what we could do to speed up and what we saw to get people here. That's how we've always looked at it very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u688	I'm gonna go a little faster through time. No, we're doing interrupts in half. I want Mrs. Belhaj... that's probably a question. Or is it a proposal of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u689	I note that there is still some uncertainty on this point. My proposal would be that the Minister should try to come back to this at the end of her term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u690	I do not know exactly the Germans' example. I don't know exactly how they did that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u691	A good proposal from Mr Van Wijngaarden. Mrs Belhaj, Mr Kuzu and Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u692	I really, honestly try to follow what the Minister says, but occasionally I notice that it is so much that I go back to the beginning. In the debate on 2 June, the Minister indicated: "We have a database listing the interpreters who worked for the Defence Department and, if necessary, we employ soldiers who worked in the operating area to do a check. We are doing everything we can to make it clear whether this is the one who worked for us." If there is a database, how can there be different communications at different times about how many interpreters there were? There were other interpreters later. Is it true or not what you said on June 2nd? Did you have an overview of all the interpreters?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u693	We had an overview of the 273 interpreting passes we have issued. There were also pictures of a number of people. With veterans, we've always tried to identify those people when they came to us with stuff. EUPOL interpreters also worked for the police mission. We don't have any files on that. There were NATO interpreters and there were EU interpreters. Of all these people, there are no exact files. 246 applications were also made in August. I just told you that. We are also looking very seriously at that, to see if they were interpreters and whether we can identify whether they have worked for us or for NATO, the EU or the EU police mission. They'll be allowed to come here, too. That file is always on the move, because people come in every time. Then we'll take that seriously again. I believe that this is also reflected in the answers to the written questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u694	It's either one or the other. When someone says to me: I know who these interpreters are and I have a database, I think: there are just the names in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u695	Of the people...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u696	I am referring specifically to the Dutch interpreters. That is what a motion has been tabled and what the debates have been about. Someone's gonna report in. Then you see: oh yes, that's right; I had it in my database. Is that what the Minister says now? Are there any of those people from the database we've talked about every time we're there 22 more there? Or are there any more of those 273 people out there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u697	Of the people who checked in with us, there are 22 more there. As you know from when we talked about that list of 273 people, a lot more people reported that they were an interpreter. Interpreters outside the 273 were also able to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u698	Mr President, perhaps I could ask the Minister...?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u699	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u700	The Minister indicates things where I think: let's keep it simple. Let's just talk about the 273. The minister says that there were people there later. I don't understand, because you had a database, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u701	We had a database of the 273 interpreters who worked for us at the time, from any moment. Before that, people could have worked for us, because we spent 20 years in Afghanistan. I indicated to you that we didn't have that file all the way from the beginning. Of those 273 interpreters, not everyone who is in the database has checked in either. There are still people joining us now, who may have been from before that time or from other missions. They can still come forward because they too are entitled to the interpretation system. The number of 273 concerned only the Uruzgan period. Interpreters can also report from all other periods. So there's no record of that. That means that we have to identify people otherwise. We must do this in a different way: with commanders, with interpreters, with veterans, with colleagues, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u702	Okay. Then that piece gets a little clearer. Were there among the people who later reported in August people who had previously been rejected because despite the fact that my motion did not say they had been working for the Netherlands for less than six months and were therefore referred to other countries? We said together in June that we did not know these criteria at all, and that this was not in the motion at all. We said you could have been an interpreter for three days, involved in top-level consultations and running huge risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u703	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u704	Did you then reject people on the basis of that same criterion? Are there any people who have re-enlisted who had previously been rejected on the basis of that six-month period?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u705	I don't know about that last one. At least not from the information I have here. I'll check it out. There's been so much work that no one was to be rejected. Even people who had reported earlier and who didn't want to, but later, could eventually come again. It also looks at the people who have been or have been rejected before. That rejection is only about whether they have been an interpreter. We need to know if they've been an interpreter. That is the only argument that applies to us. If that's verified, how long have they worked, it doesn't matter if they can just come here. So that is simply being carried out as you have indicated and as we have always talked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u706	Every time it comes to the interpreters, I get the feeling that we're talking about 200,000 interpreters that we need to evacuate. But there's about 270 of them. I do not understand why we have been talking about this for five years and why we have to come back to it every time during a debate. I note a pattern in this respect. Soon we will talk a little more about the STUDY and the countless warnings that are being given. But only when the Taliban stand at the gates of Kabul will we have a light on. We're traveling to Kabul to review evacuation plans, but at the moment when evacuation plans need to be carried out, we don't give at home. The same applies to numerous meetings on interpreters that have been organised. They're magical with numbers. I ask the Minister: how do you think it is going? Did it go well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u707	We did everything we could to see how we could speed it up. But a lot of things didn't go well either. I said something about that at the beginning of my speech. We see that in the overview we have provided, too, that it is all people who always make their own decisions. Among these 22 people is someone who was already in the Netherlands, but went back to Afghanistan. It's people who make their own choices. Not every interpreter who has worked for the Netherlands and who is on one of the lists wants to go to the Netherlands. Some people just want to go to America or Canada. So there are very different considerations in these people. All these people need to be looked at individually. They also make their own assessments, because they have to report themselves if they want to leave. Some of them didn't want to leave either. There are also people who don't want to leave. So it's not one homogeneous group. They are all interpreters, but they all make their own decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u708	Thank you. I would also ask the Minister to skip the introductions. These are extensive questions, but I would nevertheless appeal to you, and also to Members of Parliament, to skip the introductions. Otherwise, we will really not have enough time for the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister and for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u709	Of course, each individual makes his own considerations. I'm not talking about the considerations...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u710	Your question, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u711	I am not talking about the interpretations either. I'm talking about this minister's self-reflective ability. I specifically asked her: do you think it went well? In the end, it comes down to the question: do you think you have failed or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u712	Some things went well, but not all went well. Of the group we had in mind, we had 111 interpreters here before 15 August. But the group is made up of 500 people. We're doing our stinking best not to let go of anyone and to find them all. That's why there's also telephone contact with people that veterans do to see where they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u713	A brief question in one sentence, Mr President. What did the Minister say didn't go well?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u714	I find it very strange that we do not have such an administration on the basis of which we can call them directly, e-mail them or whatsap. That's gotta be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u715	The Minister explained this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u716	We've tightened procedures. We've speeded up. We said, "Some things don't have to happen anymore." But we just wanted to get more people here. I think we all agree on that. We wanted to get more people out of here than we got out of here. That is the reality. But the people who have been interpreters can always count on our support. They worked for us, and I feel responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u717	Thank you. Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u718	The Minister is not only the employer of the 30,000 soldiers we had there, the veterans, but also of the interpreters and also of other local staff. They will not be subject to general rules, as for the interpreters, but will be subject to individual reviews. How then is it that the individual tests for very high security officers, people in rank who worked for us for four years until a few days before the fall of Kabul, have all been rejected?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u719	I can't judge what the individual case was like. I have said before that if you have individual cases that you think we should look at, we will. In the debate we had with each other, we have all added the security guards who have been brought to the news by Mr Roberti. Some of them have also come here. This is how we look at individual cases that are presented every time: have they worked for us? If they've worked for us, they can count on the arrangement. That's how it's looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u720	At least that's not true for a lot of security guards I was in contact with. As of May, they placed emergency calls through the Embassy in Kabul. Up to three times they were confirmed, even after sending pictures of abuse, that they have not worked long enough and not in a position high enough for us. But something changed, namely by the Belhaj motion of the Chamber, which meant that there had to be no more individual testing and that all those people could be on the evacuation list. Now you had e-mail addresses and phone numbers of the people who had previously been rejected. You just said: what a pity we didn't build that. Now I read in the factual answer that, despite the adoption of the motion, you have not approached people again. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u721	I don't know exactly which people this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u722	These are people who were previously rejected and who were employed, for example security guards, and who were no longer subject to individual testing with the Belhaj motion. Our question during the urgent debate in the summer on Tuesdays and Wednesdays was: do you have a call team to call the people who had been rejected until a week earlier? The answer to the factual questions shows that people were no longer approached, but that it was fine if people approached us. How were people supposed to know, while Kabul fell, that there had been a debate in the Chamber and that after they had been rejected three times, they had to send another e-mail?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u723	Of course, there was a huge influx of people when you look at those lists. There's been some talk about that, too. We have sometimes approached old cases that were rejected. There really has been man and power worked by the call teams to get in touch with the people, as far as we could, to indicate they had to come somewhere. I can't exactly judge these cases. If Mrs Piri thinks we need to look at this separately again, then we can do the same. But there was a huge influx and not everyone was approached. That's just reality. Not everyone was approached to get on those flights because it was over at some point. That is, however horrible, the reality of this moment that we are standing here. This means that we still have a task to do and that we still have to bring people here or bring them to another safe place in consultation with the IOM and UNHCR.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u724	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Dassen. Then we go to the second block: the information position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u725	I think my colleague, Mr Piri, has just asked the Minister a very clear question, but it is not being answered properly at all. The answer is sometimes. But what do you mean, you can't? When was chosen to approach them? And when was chosen not to approach them? Then what have the obstacles been if they could not be approached? What did the Minister do to make sure that could happen? I am very curious to know what specific actions the Minister is taking at such a time. I get the feeling here that I often get a lot of saying in this debate, but that in the end it is not the decision that has been made or not made. When I hear "sometimes I do," I wonder "when isn't"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u726	I just explained that. In the end, it was just the workload. We didn't have a choice. A crisis team has been created. We've had contact with people we could approach. People have been summoned, no matter what Mrs Kaag has explained, and not everyone has been approached. There wasn't any choice at all, or anything. There's just been as much as possible trying to get people out. That is the reality of the crisis team, as it has worked, a united cooperation of all departments. But that doesn't mean everyone's been evacuated. There was no choice. Sometimes people in Mrs. Piri's category have been called. In the end, many more people have been evacuated than we had anticipated. You can see that in the questions. When teams left, we assumed 400 or 500 people and it became a lot more. You saw that, too. So there's been man and power working to do that, but it didn't turn out to be everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u727	There has been work with man and power, but ultimately the motion as intended by the Chamber has simply not been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u728	The minister actually says: we did our best. I believe that immediately, especially with regard to the people sitting there, the call team and so on, but it just didn't manage to reach everyone. That is very unfortunate, especially when we see now that the government intends to restrict that Belhaj motion. People are being looked at, at maturity, at criteria. And Friday, the mailbox will be closed. I find that very difficult to reconcile, so I ask the Minister. There are still people out there, but you'd like to close the store. You want to lock the door. Why are you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u729	I have nothing to add to what Mrs Kaag has already said about this. For interpreters, and for people who have worked for us, the box will never be closed, because the arrangement was made in 2014. It stays open. That also deviates from what other countries do. So that box will just stay open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u730	So for the interpreters, the mailbox remains open, just for all the clarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u731	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u732	But for all the other people, about which it was right in the Belhaj motion, the door is locked on Friday. How did you even get here on that day of Friday? What if there are still people on Saturday who deserve to be evacuated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u733	The evacuation operation in that sense, as we did, has ended. Mrs Kaag explained how the cabinet intends to implement the motion, in consultation with UNHCR and IOM. We also wrote that in the letter. I have nothing to add. It remains the case, then, for interpreters and staff who have worked for us, insofar as they meet the risk, that the scheme remains open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u734	Thank you. I want to close this part. You are now going to the second block, the information position, about which some questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u735	That was mostly about the STUDY. Those were Mr Ceder's questions. It is not a long block, because it was really only Mr Ceder who discussed it extensively. He asked how that actually works. In fact, we have never done this before, as much information as possible that came from the STUDY, publicly shared. I think it's good to say that here too. Mr Ceder asked: who are these secret messages from the STUDY? These messages will be distributed directly after they appear, which has been around Afghanistan every day lately, through a limited list of officials and directors involved. You know that this is all very secret, but they also go to the Foreign Minister, because that was your question. You asked if the STUD opinion was shared with other directors. It's good to realize that STUDY doesn't make advice. The STIVD makes messages, indicates the actual situation and weighs the probability of it. The messages you mentioned were indeed shared with the relevant directors, as is usual. That is what the Security and Intelligence Council, the Under-Council of Ministers, meets every week. I would also like to draw your Chamber's attention to the public annual reports of the STUDY. The last question was, why wasn't it shared with the Chamber? MIVD's 2020 public annual report already reports that the overall security situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated dramatically compared to the previous year, that the total number of incidents of violence in Afghanistan has increased considerably and that the Taliban have gained ground over Afghan security forces. I sent that public annual report of the STUDY to your Chamber on 30 April of this year. These comments were included. In addition, I would like to say that, finally, about STUDY, the secret information of STUDY is also being discussed with a committee of your Chamber. We always say that you will be informed "through the appropriate channels', namely the CIVD. In that sense, it has been informed of all secret information. But we have stretched ourselves to the maximum to make as much public in the facts as possible. Mr President, that was that cup.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u736	There is a question from Mr Ceder. Then we go to block three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u737	The STUD message on January 14th says it's inevitable. Does the STIBD's annual report state that it is inevitable that the Taliban will eventually take over the government? Is that what the annual report says?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u738	In the public annual report? I don't have the lyrics on me right now. The texts we have indicated in the letter... You take it out of the factual account. You're quoting page 3. There's that inevitability in there. I do not know if that is what that is in the public annual report, because I do not have it at the moment. I'll check it out for you in a minute. This is something we could share. But that inevitable, of course, didn't have any timing. That it was inevitable, the security services actually saw coming around the world, but the timing didn't. This is not just our Dutch cabinet; let me also speak for the Defence Ministers whom I spoke about at the Foreign Affairs Council in Ljubljana, as Mrs Kaag also pointed out. That's why we've all gone after the facts. I see it's not in the public annual report. That only indicates how we stretched out to provide you with information, to see what we could share in the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u739	Finally, Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u740	I knew it wasn't in the annual report, because I read it. In my opinion, no one in this Chamber, no member of parliament, knew that this cabinet knew that the Taliban would inevitably take over the government. In fact, I've been on committees with you and I've been talking about letters where we're talking about an unstable situation, but I've never gotten the suggestion from you...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u741	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u742	Sorry, Chairman. I never got the suggestion from you that the Taliban would inevitably take over. Maybe that would have changed my behavior or that of the Chamber. I'm going to ask the same question I asked the Foreign Minister. Several times, including in the letter of 18 June, the Chamber is informed. The suggestion is awakened as if the inevitability of taking over is not the case. You are saying, however, that it is still a question of how the Taliban will relate to the national administration of Afghanistan and the international community. Again, I'm not talking about speed. There's something to be said for that. However, it does not claim or suggests that it is inevitable, but that it is still dependent on several factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u743	Your specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u744	This is an important question, Mr President. I would like to read one more quote sent to the Chamber: the role of the Taliban in future Afghanistan and the involvement of international partners will still have to crystallise, depending on developments in the country. I ask the question again, knowing that it was not in the STUDY annual report, knowing that you had this knowledge and knowing that the Chamber and the Members of Parliament who would have liked very much: do you think that this information should have gone to the Chamber and do you think that you have misinformed the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u745	The public annual report says: the Taliban is gaining ground. That's what the public annual report says. When it comes to Mr Ceder's assumption that no one is aware of it, secret information is indeed shared with your Chamber through the appropriate channels. That's the CIVD, as you know. So that assumption is not in itself correct. All of us must always consider how we deal with the information in the documents, what we do and what we cannot share publicly. Most of them couldn't be shared publicly. However, it must be the basis for the decision-making that we are making, and you are quite right about that. Not everything can be explained in public, but every week the reports are sent to the CIVD, as the President undoubtedly knows. That means that those appropriate channels are informed. That is the path agreed with the Chamber. We are all very well, but not just us, Mrs Kaag has said all the necessary things about it because of the speed with which it was going. And...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u746	Thank you. I think we're a little bit at the end of the Secretary of Defense's term. I think you have one more block: operational. But you have already said a few things about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u747	I answered the questions that had been asked. There was another question about the material, how old that was and what that means, but I'll leave it for what it is. It is indeed not a new material; the whole Chamber is right about that. But it has been incredibly good what work has been done with the two Hercules-planes, but also with the one KDC-10 who stood there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u748	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u749	When the Minister of Defence is ready, I would like to have a reflection on that, too, in my term, I asked her to comment on her comment after the Taliban had taken over Afghanistan and it was obvious that twenty years of war did not achieve what was hoped for. At the time, the Minister did it to say: well, at least we have shown that there is another way to do it. More than 100,000 dead, millions of refugees, billions in costs, but yes, we have just shown that we could do otherwise. Does the Minister recognize that was a huge slipper? Are you kidding me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u750	I have indicated this in a much longer context. We have talked extensively, although not in this debate, about how we look at what has been achieved in Afghanistan. Then you see that a great deal has been achieved in recent years. However, there was a stable situation created by the ability of people to regulate security, by the transfer of police duties that allowed people, girls, women, to go to school and have rights. The health situation has increased enormously. We have also shown how important it is to have democratic rights. In that context, I made that statement. The independent evaluation will show how this will ultimately be assessed after these 20 years. But things have really been achieved, also for the perspective of the people there. That is what the people who are here say with the commitment of our military but also with the commitment of all the people who have worked for BuHa-OS and for Foreign Affairs there. In this great context, I said that perspective was important, especially for those women and children. The independent evaluation will show what will be found in the long term, if you look back now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u751	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u752	What planet does this minister live on? This can't be happening, can it? Of course, everyone has done their best. All kinds of beautiful things have been said about nation building, reconstruction, girls to school. Fantastic, great, but it didn't work out. It has become a tragic failure. There are billions wasted on it and a lot of people have died. That's the question you need to answer: was it worth it? Then you cannot say: yes, at least we have shown that there is another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u753	I've already said what I said about it. I didn't say that in that sense. I think that very important work has been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u754	A further question from Mr Van Wijngaarden has remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u755	It was on the German route of that travel visa. What could it have meant for the interpreters to leave it over land, for example, if we had? I would like to challenge the Minister to look back in a reflection as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u756	The answer was there, but I didn't see it. You are absolutely right, because you asked that question. Before leaving Mazar-e-Sharif, Germany issued 2,000 visas to interpreters and local military personnel. They could do that because as a lead nation they had concluded the contracts with them and thus had the data of all these people. Then the problem remains that people must have a passport, because the visa must be in it. The visa had to be in the passport. Because they were lead nation in Mazar-e-Sharif, they were able to do so. That's different from our situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u757	For my understanding, that was not an option for the Netherlands, says the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u758	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u759	Okay, clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u760	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Minister of Defence's first term. I propose that we suspend for ten minutes, and then I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u761	The next item is the first term of office of the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u762	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The last month of August was a heartbreaking period. First and foremost for the Afghan people who often worked intensively with the Netherlands for many years, people who often had to fear for their lives because of this cooperation with and for the Netherlands. I'm not pretending that I can really sense how hard that must be. There were also bright spots. In addition to all the grief about what these people had lost, many were happy at the same time. They were happy that they were alive and that they were safe. Many have worked hard to do so, not least Members of your Chamber. I agree with the appreciation of the people of Foreign Affairs and Defence and I would also like to pay tribute to the people of the IND, the COA, the Royal Marechaussee and many others in the asylum chain. There is and is being worked hard on the reception, identification and registration and even on the assessment of the first asylum applications. That is heartwarming, because we can take care of these people, who have been through so much, as best we can, and quickly provide them with clarity in a careful procedure with all the necessary guarantees. I will not deny that there are major challenges to lead people to a new life successfully and in a reasonable time, but with the necessary dedication and creativity, provinces and municipalities are working hard to meet these challenges. I would now like to answer the questions of your Chamber and I do not answer them in blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u763	That's a shame in itself. I fought for your cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u764	Well, I can say to you that it is perhaps from a past of mine that I have always been particularly concerned about meetings where it was said that I am talking in blocks. I don't talk in cubes. Let me first deal with Mrs Piri and Mr Dassen's question: how can it be that on the day of the appeal to leave Afghanistan the cabinet calls on the European Commission to continue deportations? On 8 July, several EU Member States received a note verbal from the then Afghan Government stating that they would no longer cooperate in forced return. This meant that the then government of Afghanistan unilaterally suspended the existing comprehensive agreements on migration management. A number of Member States, namely Austria, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Belgium and the Netherlands, drew up a letter to the Commission expressing their interest in the migration cooperation which had been built up in recent years and which this group of Member States wanted to maintain. The Netherlands was not the initiator of the letter to the Commission, but we did share the importance of the mutual migration arrangements. That was the reason for me to vote in favour of the letter by email on 27 July last and then to sign it on 29 July. Due to the alignment between Member States, the letter was finally sent on 5 August. Looking back, this final shipment was unfortunate on 5 August. In the period between my signature on 29 July and the final shipment on 5 August, developments in Afghanistan were such that we should have reconsidered that shipment. That has not happened, and I regret it. The process of shipping was not with the Netherlands and I had no concrete interference with it after 29 July, but that of course did not relieve me of my duty to be alert when I saw that developments in Afghanistan followed each other quickly. I can therefore imagine that when the letter was issued on behalf of the Member States mentioned on 5 August, several of your Members did not find the message in the letter appropriate to the situation. As said, I regret that. I think it is important to be more focused on this in future. I would add that on 10 August I ordered in my ministry to see if it was possible to draw up a decision and departure Moratorium. That happened on 11 August.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u765	There is an interruption by Mr Dassen of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u766	Indeed, this action by the Secretary of State has surprised me very much; not only the timing, but also the feeling that naturally comes to mind. If on 27 or 29 July, I do not know exactly what you just said, whether it was the 27th or 29th, or whether you were informing your colleagues about signing the letter, when on 21 July there was a call to people to leave the country as soon as possible, is that no longer proportionate to the letter you wish to sign with other countries to the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u767	The letter has gone a long way. On July 8, the emergency report came from Afghanistan. Subsequently, the Netherlands was asked to sign the letter, not so much because we want to force people to return to Afghanistan, but also because immigration cooperation was suspended by Afghanistan. That was from the Joint Way Forward agreement with Afghanistan, with countries of the European Union. In general terms, we have said with the other signatory countries: 'We do not agree with this. So we are going to say: listen, you have to stick to the commitments we have made about the whole migration management of Afghanistan with a number of countries of the European Union."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u768	It's not quite the answer I was hoping for, but I also have another question. Given the number of interruptions, I'll make them. Did you discuss this with our embassy in Afghanistan during this trial? What was their reaction when they heard that, despite this call, you made this call to the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u769	I'll give you a clear answer. My ministry hasn't spoken to the embassy in Afghanistan. There has been talk with the other countries that have co-signed. This letter was written at the request of one of the other Member States. That's what we've been communicating with. I haven't contacted the Dutch embassy in Kabul.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u770	Mr Dassen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u771	I don't know if it's standing policy not to contact the embassy there. I'm surprised about that anyway. I would say: the moment you write such a letter, you will, especially in view of the developments in the country there, at least contact the embassy to see if it is reasonable to make the call. So I'm surprised you didn't. Did you do that through the State Department? Or has there been no contact at all and have you determined this on your own here in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u772	There has been official consultation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u773	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u774	Mrs Bromet and Mr Dassen asked why Afghanistan has not been identified as an unsafe country and why people have to wait months for protection. For Afghanistan, because of the uncertain situation, a decision and departure Moratorium is applicable, as I informed your Chamber by letter of 11 August last. The formal starting date of the decision and departure Moratorium is the date of publication in the Official Journal, August 21st, but we have executed it since August 11th. That Decision and Departure Moratorium shall run for a period of six months and shall run until 21 February 2022. It can also be extended for another six months. However, the decision and departure Moratorium does not have to stand in the way of a decision on an asylum application. In cases where that is possible, the IND will therefore reach a decision, including at the time of the moratorium. I just said that the IND has taken a decision on the asylum applications of the first people evacuated from Afghanistan. So that happened despite the decision-making and departure Moratorium. In a limited number of obviously promising cases among the evacuations, that has already happened. I have previously informed your Chamber that I will review the country-specific asylum policy in Afghanistan on the basis of the new statement of office from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Objective information as it follows from the post, including on the developments and security situation of the Afghan population under the Taliban regime, is necessary in order to achieve a careful country policy on Afghanistan and for the IND to reach a fair decision. This post was scheduled for publication at the end of September, but Foreign Affairs has informed me that the publication of the post may be moved backwards due to the actuality of the information. The fact is, an official report is looking back. Given the information we have received, it would look back so far that it would not be able to deal with the current situation at the moment and in the coming months. That's why the State Department has informed me that the publication is likely to be moved backwards so that there is up-to-date information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u775	It may be me, but I don't understand. I ask the cabinet: is Afghanistan considered an unsafe country? That has meaning for the people who come here. Promised: At the end of September there will be a post in which Afghanistan will be classified as an unsafe country. I hear now that's being pushed back. Why? Or does the ruler perhaps mean it's being pushed forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u776	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So it looks back and describes the actual situation and events in the past period until a certain date. I am not from the Foreign Office but from JenV, but we understand from the Foreign Office that, precisely because of the current situation, it wants to move the publication of the post, so that it can assume an actual situation, the current situation. In the meantime, we have the decision and departure Moratorium. So the situation that people have to go back to Afghanistan... At the moment, Afghanistan is seen by us as a country that is not functioning properly and in which you do not have to decide on decisions and departures. That decision is there. So as far as that is concerned, the situation is, as it were, very unsafe at the moment. But the Foreign Office report wants to assess the situation as it has been and not the past period. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u777	The young Afghans I spoke to here this morning felt it was very important that Afghanistan should be described as an unsafe country. GroenLinks feels the same way. It's just what period you're looking at, but if you've been looking at the past two weeks, it seems pretty clear to me that Afghanistan is an unsafe country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u778	Mrs Bromet says it is an unsafe country. That is why we have a decision and departure moratorium, in order to be able to respond to that situation in an acute manner. But I'll tell you the situation with regard to a country report. We don't; JenV asks the Foreign Office. And a country report looks back. If the Foreign Office were to do this now, they would have to look back at a period when it was not as unsafe as it is now. That is why we in the Foreign Office have understood that we prefer to do it a little later, because then we will be able to deal with the Dan situation now and next month. Meanwhile, JenV has set up the decision and departure moratorium, because we don't think it's safe. That has been working since 11 August last.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u779	I think this is a very strange way of doing things, because this would mean that if a country is very unsafe, and that is Afghanistan now; the whole world is writing about it, the ministry cannot decide to declare the country unsafe at that time. That's a very strange situation. My question is: what look-back period does the Ministry use? What's the deadline for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u780	It is being examined whether it is unsafe, because that is why I have set up the decision and departure Moratorium. We have to make that very clear. If, at my request, the Foreign Office were to issue an emergency country report on Afghanistan, they would look back until 15 August. And since August 15th, things have gone very wrong. That is why the Foreign Affairs Committee has said that I would like to interpret it for a moment. Listen, we prefer to do it later, because then we can look at the situation. That it is not good in Afghanistan I have established with JenV by coming up with the decision and departure Moratorium on 11 August. We did that to Libya at the time, in the same way. If that is necessary, because we see that it is not going well in a country and it is unsafe, then it takes time to request a country message, and also a country message that looks back. You must have a country message that reflects the current situation. So what do we do? Then we'll set up a decision and departure moratorium. This reflects the situation that we find unsafe at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u781	Then my question about the deadline will still stand. The Secretary of State now appoints the takeover of Kabul on 15 August. Is that a randomly chosen date, or is it a fixed term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u782	I am not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I have heard that it would be looked back until 15 August, because it seems to be subject to a certain deadline. So that makes no sense if you want to establish that Afghanistan is unsafe. That is why the Foreign Office has now informed my department that, precisely because of the topicality of the information, which is desperately needed, it is possible to move it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u783	In the first half of 2021, a record number of deaths and injuries was recorded in Afghanistan. On 18 December 2019, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security itself confirmed that interpreters would be at risk or risk. Why didn't they act immediately? Because there is every reference to the last few weeks and the last few months, but we already know from that moment that the situation would have occurred. My question is why, then, the travel advice has not been amended and expulsions have been reconsidered. It is now being said that it has not been unsafe in Afghanistan until 15 August. I also asked a number of questions during my contribution, and one of them is: can we be assured that Afghans will not be permanently expelled even after the end of the moratorium, and what about family members and adult children, for example? I have not yet received an answer to that question either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u784	I'll be right back on those questions. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u785	But I asked three questions. You will come back to the latter in a moment and that is very nice, but it remains unclear to me why we did not act between 2019 and August 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u786	The overall situation was that the Netherlands maintained contact with Afghanistan and also had a Dutch representation in Afghanistan. The Netherlands also maintained contacts with the then Afghan government and agreed among other things that Joint Way Forward. So the situation in 2019 would not be good for the interpreters, to which the Minister of Defence replied. But the whole situation with Afghanistan was a situation with a government with which the Netherlands had business contacts, diplomatic relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u787	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u788	My question, of course, focused on that which falls under JenV, on that which falls under the IND and on how we dealt with and dealt with applications. The Secretary of State has tried to explain why she was okay with sending people back, so shortly before the fall of Kabul, but it is a rather unsatisfactory answer. I just can't understand how that relates to the situation of that moment. For example, we do not automatically send people back to Syria. Then why go to Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u789	Perhaps it is good to tell Mrs Simons that we have not sent anyone back to Afghanistan throughout 2020 and 2021. As far as Syria is concerned, we have Syria's country policy, which clearly indicates that that country is very unsafe. A new country report has just come about Syria, and it still states that that country is very unsafe. The current country policy we have for Afghanistan is still based on a post, but we didn't send anyone back in 2020 and 2021. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mrs Simons' question as to whether I can promise that no one will be returned to Afghanistan permanently after the expiry of the departure Moratorium. I can't make this commitment. The asylum system is designed in such a way that anyone who needs protection gets protection. If the security situation in a country of origin has changed in a positive and substantial way, the right of asylum requires an assessment as to whether such protection is still necessary. This follows from the Aliens Act, which follows from the Refugee Convention, which follows from Union law. At the moment, the situation there is bad, but if the situation in Afghanistan changes in a positive and substantial way over a number of years, it will be necessary to decide at that time how to deal with the Afghan licence holders for a certain period of time. I can imagine that we will involve all the circumstances in the assessment and also make that assessment from a human point of view, but I cannot anticipate that. The promise that we will never send anyone back is not something I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u790	Frankly, I understand that the Secretary of State cannot guarantee that no one will ever be returned to Afghanistan until the end of time. However, I am a little hesitant, because in my personal view the country has been so unsafe all these years that no one should have been sent back. That didn't happen, I just heard, but the wish was there. I would therefore like to hear a little more about these circumstances. When is it unsafe enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u791	"Unsafe enough': this is reflected in the decision and departure Moratorium that I set up on 11 August. We're now waiting for the country report from the State Department. Under the present circumstances, I can only imagine that it is said that that country is unsafe. That's gonna stay there for a long time until a new country notice comes in. I can also extend the current decision and departure Moratorium for another six months, if necessary. That is what we did to Libya at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u792	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u793	"Under the present circumstances." What do you think are the current circumstances, just so we can make it clear that it's unsafe now? And what could possibly, hypothetically, be changed in those circumstances, let us just do that once before the joke, so that it would be safe again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u794	I said that if, in the security situation in a country of origin, Mrs Simons is referring to Afghanistan in a positive sense and substantially changes something. This may occur in Afghanistan in a number of years. But at the moment I do not see, I think, that this is also the case in the eyes of everyone here, and of those who have expert knowledge of it, that we see an improvement in the situation in Afghanistan in the short term. Mr Ceder had asked how the Secretary of State is implementing the Belhaj motion. The letter on the state of affairs received by the Chamber yesterday stated that, according to the motion, the relevant target group in the asylum policy is considered a risk group. This will still be explicated in the Aliens Circular. So it's included in the Alien Circular. That's what's being tested. Then someone can make it more likely that they need asylum. That's what it means when you're a risk group. That's how it's processed. So we're already working on doing that. Then there was a question from Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Eppink: what about the status holders who are still in Afghanistan and what consequences does this have for their residence permit? If a status holder stays or has stayed in his country of origin, that may be the reason for the IND to re-evaluate the status. Returning to the country of origin may affect the status of residence in the Netherlands if he is in possession of a residence permit for a fixed period. As far as is known, there are no status holders with a fixed-term residence permit among the evacuations. Should it appear that there are still persons staying in Afghanistan with a fixed-term residence permit, the IND will assess, on the basis of individual circumstances, whether the alien still needs protection and whether the residence permit should be withdrawn. That's always an individual assessment. Such a review of the status is preferably rapid and while the person is still staying in the country of origin. Then there was Mrs Bromet's question about how many refugees would like to take up the cabinet on top of the UNHCR quota. I assume that Mrs Bromet is asking this question in relation to the commitment to set up a programme with UNHCR and IOM as described in yesterday's state of affairs letter. As indicated in the letter, it is not possible to anticipate the number of persons, the criteria and the duration of a possible programme, as this depends on the possibilities of these organisations in Afghanistan and the feasibility in the Netherlands. The cabinet will inform the Chamber further about this. Then there was a question from Mrs Simons: what is the government doing to ensure that all Afghan refugees receive psychological care in the aftermath? They can use the same medical care as other residents of the Netherlands. The same applies to psychosocial and psychological care. The COA already pays particular attention to the psychological problems that can be experienced by this group. Co-workers of the COA are also trained to pick up signals from this, and to point out the care available where necessary. A ggz consultant is also present in the care facility to provide an accessible entrance for people with mental problems. For children and young people, activities aimed at the psychosocial well-being of these children and young people are carried out, inter alia, for the purpose of prevention by various organisations. Then there was a question from Mr Stoffer: why did not the administrative thresholds be removed much earlier than on 11 August in order to at least evacuate defence interpreters and staff? Due to the situation in Afghanistan, on 11 May it was decided to make a number of adjustments to speed up the procedure. The IND has greatly shortened the questionnaire that applicants have to submit. As soon as the necessary documents are received, a falsification check by the Royal Marechaussee and social media screening will be done by the IND on the same day. If that was in order, the case will be submitted to the head of IND with the request for agreement. From May this process went so fast that the agreement of the head IND, thus the whole process, was done in one day. The requirement for legalized documents to be translated into English has expired well before 11 August. In June, the legalization requirement for these documents will be released. This evening we have already discussed the passport requirement, and this is something that is maintained, as in similar countries. The reason for this is that both the Afghan authorities at the time and airlines make these demands. Due to the need to leave the country as soon as possible, ten cases decided to do the screening and falsification check after arrival in the Netherlands instead of prior to the trip. In this way we have reduced the administrative thresholds. Those were the questions that were asked to me. I hope I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u795	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the deadline on the side of the Secretary of State. I'm gonna suspend for five minutes, then we're gonna clean up, and then I'm gonna give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u796	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u797	Mr President, thank you. I think it is right for me to start from my side with a few reflections on the past few weeks and then answer a few questions that have been asked. Let me begin by saying that I share, of course, what everyone has said about respect for the people of Defence and Foreign Affairs, who, under extremely difficult circumstances, have tried to get as many people out as possible. I have great respect for that. At the same time, I would like to repeat what Sigrid Kaag, Minister for Foreign Affairs, said here in her term. That goes for me and for the whole cabinet. I would like to repeat, personally, that, in the light of the fact that we have made wrong assessments on a number of points, we have not succeeded in getting everyone we wanted out of there, and I am very sorry for that. I think that's horrible. That is not a 'total failure', as some have said, because fortunately a lot has succeeded. But there have also been many failures, and I find that, once again, terrible. I would like to express my deep regret here. The second point. Mrs Piri asked in the media today and Mrs Belhaj in her speech whether I should not have spoken before in the media. I've been thinking about that and I agree with both of them. I should have done that before. I finally had a more extensive press moment after the evacuations had ended, but I think it would have been better if I had made myself more visible in the media about this much earlier in the process, for example at the beginning of the week after the fall of Kabul. And a third comment I would like to make on the subject of reflection is towards Mrs Belhaj, but also towards a majority in the Chamber. That's about the next thing. The situation that emerged after the fall of Kabul is quite unique, because there is a meeting of three things that make that situation so unique: the acute insecurity combined with the fact that a safe port was completely missing in that country at that time and there was no embassy on the ground at that time. This really is a different situation from that in many other countries. During that week, after the fall of Kabul, there were several parliamentary debates, ending in Mrs Belhaj's motion on Wednesday. I was in the Chamber myself that evening at the debate on corona and then a letter from the cabinet on how we would carry out the Belhaj motion came in the course of that evening. If I say it kindly to ourselves, I would like to thank the Chamber for having thought along. If I say it unfriendly to the cabinet, you should ask the question: could we not have thought before that, in addition to the local embassy staff and interpreters, where the chefs, security officers, fixers, NGO employees and prominents are concerned, that is not a restrictive list, the cabinet also holds a special responsibility? I wanted those three comments to be made at the outset. Then I would like to say to Mr Omtzigt that I trust Mrs Kaag, that I am working well with her and that we have worked very intensively over the last few weeks, also with Ankie Broekers and Ank Bijleveld, in the various discussions and that I appreciate that very much. Then, Mr. Chairman, with regard to that government meeting. I took a look at that. There are no lists of decisions, so we cannot provide them either. I've also made a few inquiries and we've been groping, knocking and looking at it on all sides, but there's nowhere to find that number of three. What you do find are phrases if that is maintained by the fact that we are looking at the core families, but that some exceptions on humanitarian grounds of other family members are still being considered. As you know, we finally decided, on a proposal from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to extend the group beyond the core families to residents next to the core families on Saturday 14 August. I thought I had to put it that way. Dan, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u798	Before going any further, there is a question from Mr Stoffer, SGP, and then from Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u799	Something's freaking me out anyway. The Prime Minister says that no decision-lists are made of the government consultation. I have two questions about this. One. Then what do you make decision lists out of? Two. If you decide something, how do you follow it at all? How is that tracked?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u800	A report is being made. That report is not a list of decisions. That is so that it is covered by the same rules, we believe, which also apply to reports of sub- Councils and Councils of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u801	But then there is an extract to show what decisions have been taken. It can be retrieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u802	Mr Omtzigt's question was very specific about the number three in relation to the local staff and their core families, and whether you would go further. We haven't been able to find that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u803	Should I note that no decision has been taken on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u804	No. It was agreed that we should stick to the discussion that was also discussed in the Council of Ministers of 9 July on local staff and their nuclear families and, as I said earlier, that some exceptions on humanitarian grounds for other family members should be looked at, similar to what happens with the interpreters.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u805	It's very strange. The Foreign Minister said that the number three was not mentioned to the embassy. The Prime Minister is now saying: we cannot find it. Please note that we can't find that. So it could be there, but "we can't find it." The ambassador replied to the government: I do not want to comply with the request to bring only 3 out of 60 people to safety. How does the ambassador come up with the number three?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u806	I have answered Mr Omtzigt's question. He asked whether, in a ministerial meeting, that figure three emerged. We've extended that a little bit to the Ministers' Councils. That's not true. What comes out is how we want to deal with the local embassy staff, that is, the non-Dutch passport holders. It is already exceptional to bring them to the Netherlands. It was decided to do that with the nuclear families. The discussion was there during the days before the fall of Kabul. We finally decided on Saturday 14 August, on a proposal from the Foreign Minister, to go much further. Until August 14th, the line was to confine us to the embassy staff and the core families. I'm not going to answer that mail exchange here. You had that discussion with the Foreign Minister. I have nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u807	Ah, look! That went through the State Department. I have the e-mail here. It was properly sent to the Chamber this morning, based on revelations in the Volkskrant. In it, the ambassador says, "Dear Carola, I have thought carefully about your request to reduce the number of cases from 60 to 3." So, "I've thought carefully about your request" and "from 60 to 3." Surely the Prime Minister cannot deny that a request has been made to bring the number of people back to three?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u808	Once again, Mrs Kaag has already dealt with this. The question to me was whether we can find that figure in the reports of the Bwo's and the Councils of Ministers. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u809	Has the Prime Minister been able to take note of the letter or plea of the local staff of the Embassy in Kabul addressed to the Secretary-General of his Ministry? Did he face it on May 11th or maybe a little later? Or have you had the opportunity to face it recently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u810	I've been briefed on that. I'd like Mr. Van Leeuwen to listen in. The question, Jeffrey, is whether we like AZ had that letter before, on May 11th. Oh, come on. Absolutely not, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u811	The letter is addressed to the Secretary-General of the Ministry of General Affairs. The Prime Minister states that he has not been able to take notice of this. So this has not been scaled up from the Secretary-General towards...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u812	No, he was sent to the State Department. That's Paul Huijts, old sg AZ, but now BZ. At least, I assume he's...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u813	It's solved again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u814	It's solved again. I'm afraid we're not gonna solve everything tonight, but what we can solve is what we're gonna do. I'm going on. Finally, there are a few questions. One was about the difference between the situation in practice and the theoretical reality in The Hague. I understand Mr Boswijk's question. I think it is a little too black and white, as if there were that degree of contradiction between the theoretical reality and the pragmatic approach in the field. What you see here, as is also outlined in the various contributions, is that the situation deteriorated very quickly. From August 11th, we had started to meet in ministers' meetings, which I myself participated in. But then the thought was that it could take up to 90 days for Kabul to fall. But as we all know, that happened on Sunday, August 15th. You can see that on the ground, of course, an incredible hope of action and inventiveness has been developed. I agree with all the words of appreciation, including Mr Boswijk and others in the Chamber who helped to do so. These people are trained to come to solutions in the most chaotic conditions. It is clear that not everything has been achieved, but I do not believe that the cabinet has stuck in the theoretical reality. Then I've been asked how I assess the outcome of the wars in the Middle East. That is a very general question. I would actually like to agree that we should discuss this with a good glass at another time, because I do not know if this is the right time to be in the role of G.B.J. Hiltermann to dive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u815	There is a question from Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u816	I just heard the Prime Minister say he was in the government meeting from 11 July...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u817	August 11th.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u818	August 11th. And at that time it was expected that it would take 90 days for Kabul to fall. I wonder how he read the letter from the eighteen military unions from eight different countries on 1 June. That letter was also addressed to the Prime Minister, but I understand that there was no response to that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u819	We had a lot of signals. There has also been talk about the STUDY. Mrs Bijleveld has gone into this in detail. The Chamber has also been informed of the rapidly deteriorating situation at various times in the progress reports. But the fact is that a few days before the fall of Kabul, it was assumed that the fall could last up to 90 days. We know by now that we were completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u820	That's not an answer to my question. I asked for the Prime Minister's response to the letter of 1 June. This letter, from 18 different military trade unions from eight different countries, was sent to several prime ministers or presidents and to the Secretary-General of NATO. That letter warns you to evacuate within 30 days, otherwise it may be too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u821	We have taken note of many signals, including from experts, such as this letter. But the fact is, of course, that in the end we also sail on the weighted assessment that has been made internationally, also for the Netherlands. That estimate was, even two months after 1 June, that it would last 90 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u822	I still have no answer to my question as to how the Prime Minister looked at that letter. Did he even see that letter? What was his reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u823	In any case, I have seen a lot of expert reactions in the media. I'm sure it's this one, too. There were many signals from experts who said: watch out, things are happening. But it always is. That's also relevant information. But in the end, the cabinet bases itself on the weighted average of all these opinions. In addition, the advice and insights of our security service are very dominant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u824	I myself conclude that the Prime Minister either did not see the letter or saw the letter, but did not do anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u825	I'll leave that to Mr. Dassen. Then there was a question of how I look at our armed forces and what I think of the state of the armed forces, also in the light of the geopolitical situation. I think it is clear that, in the difficult years following the financial crisis, the cabinet has had to make huge cuts, including in defence. It is extremely important that we invest in defence again. The 2014 Wales pledge has been done in the full conviction that it is necessary: working towards 2% of national income for defence expenditure. There is also a motion by Mr van der Staaij on this point, which is still in the direction of this coalition, also for the years to come. We have also invested a great deal in recent years, but we are far from there. I'm not going to speak for my own party here. We're all gonna have to see that in the formation, too, if my party's gonna be there. But I have the feeling that, apart from my party, there is widespread conviction in this Chamber too. That is not only because you want to comply formally with a NATO obligation, which is also useful, but also because the state of the world, where something is going on, unfortunately also makes it necessary. That seems to me to have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u826	There is another question from Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u827	Thanks to the Prime Minister. You have heard the whole debate tonight. You have also heard how the Chamber has actually been working on motions for months and, in my opinion, all the groups, including the spokesperson of the VVD, have at least wasted time. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u828	I will leave that summary to Mrs Piri. I do not know whether wasted time is a weighted outcome on that side of the room. But there's criticism. I'm not just because of that, but because I really feel that way, starting with what I started with. And that was repeating the words of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and making them mine too, namely that we have to establish that where things have been successful, much has not been achieved. That is not unique for the Netherlands, but that is no excuse. I was in Dresden last week with Angela Merkel. We had a lot of contact with the French and the English on Friday. You can see that there is not so much a sense of total failure in Europe as a feeling of great regret that it has not been possible to achieve the objectives. It's felt deep and wide, including me. That's what I wanted to say here. I am appalled that there are still people in Afghanistan who are anxious, who want to leave the country and who may be at risk. At the same time I have seen how hard everyone in the Netherlands has worked, but also of course especially there. I've seen the return to Eindhoven of the entire team on the Friday night after stopping the repatriation. At least zero criticism to them. In fact, great respect!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u829	Let me ask you another question. I know that it has been a very long time this evening for us to judge the government's behaviour over the past few months. But I can also imagine that people have looked at the debate, or have heard what has been said here with interpreters, who are really still in agony in Afghanistan. What's your message to them? I am concerned when I hear that there is still a political decision to be made about perhaps a maximum number of people we are bringing here and the criteria. You just complimented the Chamber. You said it was a good thing you filed the Belhaj motion, but perhaps we should have done it ourselves. I would find it very hard to end this debate without making it clear to those people that the Netherlands has a duty, and will also comply with it, to bring everyone who helped us there with the mission, whether it was a security guard, a cook or a driver, you know the motion of the Chamber of Representatives to safety in time and to get to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u830	I can't guarantee that here. That's not necessarily the outcome. It does apply to the interpreters; there is no discussion on this. The embassy staff and the families are already there, thank God. As far as the interpreters are concerned, it is our sacred duty to bring in the last one who wants to come. There's still work to be done. The proposal put forward by the Foreign Minister, in close consultation with the other rulers here tonight, is broader than the Belhaj motion. I think that's a sensible route. We are also talking to other countries because other countries are struggling to shape this. It is impossible for the State Department or anyone in the Netherlands to go through those tens of thousands of e-mails and to judge them, because we simply do not have the organisation for that. That is precisely the risk that you will not be able to carry out the motion properly. So what's there, I think, is wise. We shall come back to that, both with regard to the criteria and the quota and all the things associated with it. We're mostly looking at whether it's feasible right now. We are working hard on this through IOM and UNHCR. I think that's a sensible route. But this does not apply to the interpreters. Of course, we will continue to bring the interpreters here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u831	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I know it's very late and we're all very tired. But this is really an essential point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u832	Yes, and I wanted to give you the floor. So I wanted to say, Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u833	I thought you were going to say, Mrs. Piri, you're going again. But it wasn't. Can you imagine that this is causing a great deal of unrest for those who are covered by the Belhaj motion, who were, for example, security guards for us and who served there together with our soldiers and who do not really know whether we are standing before them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u834	What we want is for them to be safe. But it is not a guarantee that security always means that people all come to the Netherlands. I'm not gonna promise that here, I swear. That's not an honest message. The fair message is that we want to bring all the interpreters here. The honest message is that we want to carry out the Belhaj motion, by letter and spirit, just as we put it in the letter on that Wednesday evening 18 August. That's what we're gonna do. That's really what we're doing, but that's why we... I would also ask Mrs Piri, who I heard raise critical questions about this. We have discussed this at length, with the four of us, with our officials and with all the experts. The motion is essentially not feasible if you cannot call in the help of international expertise. Otherwise, it is a sham solution that we choose, because we cannot do it as the Netherlands simply physically and logistically. This also applies to Germany, England, France and other countries. That's why we're looking for that collaboration, to see if we're together... We are both in Downing Street Friday night to talk about this and to see if you can find a way together with other countries, with the help of these international organizations, to give this motion hands and feet. Then we'll come back to the room or we can and how.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u835	Thank you. I am giving the opportunity to put one more question to Mr Ceder and Mrs Simons. Then we'll lock up. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u836	It has been known for some time, as the correspondence shows, that letters went to the cabinet, or to several ministers, from among others the local staff, who were worried. It has actually taken a very long time for the cabinet to change and extend the rules. I am actually curious because the Prime Minister sat there and what the considerations were at the time not to broaden. I think it was known that these people were also in danger. Then I'm talking about the people outside the nuclear family. I believe that on 11 August, in the press release which then went out, it was stated that the cabinet would be reluctant to do so when it comes to non-interpreting, even if we know that they are also at risk. I am curious about the reasons behind it, the political motives. Can you shed some light on that? Why couldn't it be for months and what happened in those few days that it could? I think there were five days in between. Can you give the Chamber some clarity about that openly and honestly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u837	The open and honest answer is: moving insight. I'm also going to outline how that happened. It was two steps. The first step is to do something that has not happened on such a scale before, namely to bring local staff to the Netherlands with their core families. That was decision one. Then we entered into a more structured dialogue, which was on 11 August because of developments in Afghanistan, the fall of Herat, of Mazar-e-Sharif and of cities in the south. But then we also had the conviction that we had up to 90 days before the fall of Kabul was a fact. So from Wednesday 11 August we organised a more structured consultation, not only of the most concerned leaders, but also of me, also because I could try to establish international contacts at the level of Heads of Government. So there was also a practical reason for that. At that time, that first decision was made: we want to bring the local staff here, with the core families. At that time, the conviction was that we would follow the route with regard to the other dependents as we choose it with the interpreters. On Saturday, on the proposal of the Foreign Minister, we decided to take a really big step forward and indeed to honour the request from the local organisation to do it the way we did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u838	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Simons and then Mrs Belhaj will also have the opportunity to ask one question. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u839	Following on from Mrs Piri's question and the reply from Prime Minister Mark Rutte, I would like to say the following. I don't think every Afghan wants to come to the Netherlands. I think that has already been said today by one of the other rulers. We also understand that not every Afghan can come to the Netherlands. But that brings me to an adopted motion, of which I would like to ask about the state of play. It is about supporting as many people as possible who are in danger in Afghanistan and looking for security, without too many bureaucratic obstacles. That doesn't have to mean the Netherlands. In the context of your reply, I am actually curious to hear that you are going to talk to foreign colleagues about the status of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u840	At the moment nothing can be done at all, because it is almost impossible to get people out of Afghanistan. Unfortunately, that is the tragic situation now. But, of course, we are preparing for the situation in which we hope there will be more. The Minister of Foreign Affairs had talks to this effect in Qatar, Pakistan and Turkey. Of course, there are no formal contacts with the Taliban, but there's nothing you can do if you're not willing to talk to them. We can do that without recognizing them. So we're working on it on all sides. We do this with five European countries that work closely together: Italy, France, Germany, England and us. We will see what is possible and whether you can be present in Kabul yourself at some point. Of course, our goal is to see what we can do to help people as best we can and to bring them to safety as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u841	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Belhaj, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u842	It is good that the Prime Minister also indicates that mistakes have been made. He should indeed be grateful to the Chamber for showing collective leadership to do so. But of course that is not something to be proud of, because it has huge consequences. Is the Prime Minister now also convinced that he is going to say, perhaps as of tomorrow, that I think it is so important that we get it right in the future that, if we go on a mission and decide to hire or hire people, we will have clarity about it immediately, as all the other countries do? If you say "we don't want these people to come into service" and they're from the Netherlands, that's a choice too. I mean, we're making that choice now, so that we don't get into the situation that we've now gotten into.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u843	In any case, we do not want to end up in a situation in which we have now found ourselves; I agree with that. It's not like we're gonna start a new mission if this happens tomorrow. I agree with Mrs Belhaj that, as soon as it arrives, we have precisely formulated this lesson on paper. But then we must also have it precisely formulated on paper. We also need part of the evaluation for this. If there is a situation in which the Netherlands has a more large-scale commitment... This is conceivable in the G5 Sahel, for example. I mean that we might say once with the French, with others or with Europe: we are going to make a contribution in Mauritania, Mali, Niger, Burkina Faso or other places in the world. It could be. Then I agree with Mrs Belhaj that we must have answered that question: what does that mean for your local staff? I don't want to try to put it exactly at 1:35 a.m. now, but that must have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u844	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I think there is a need for a second deadline. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u845	I'm a little perplexed, Mr. Chairman. Could we perhaps suspend for ten minutes? Or is that a really weird time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u846	I'm gonna take a look at the Chamber to see if there's any objection. No. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u847	I'll resume the meeting. The next item is the second parliamentary term. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u848	Mr. Chairman. For months now, I have been in contact with many of my colleagues here with people who have worked side by side with our military for many years. Many of them are still in agony in Afghanistan. In recent times, chamber motions have not been carried out and valuable time has been wasted. That puts lives at risk. That is very difficult for me and for my group. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of Defense has trained several motions of this Chamber, selectively forgotten and simply not carried out. This is a mortal sin, with disastrous consequences for interpreters and other staff who have worked for the Netherlands. Of these four rulers, I charge her the most. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Piri motion calling on the cabinet to bring all Afghan interpreters to safety before the end of the Dutch military presence has not been implemented;]] [[Whereas evacuation plans do not take account of the evacuation of interpreters and their families;]] [[Whereas this failure has resulted in at least 22 interpreters working for the Netherlands and leaving their families behind;]] [[rejects the action of the Minister of Defence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Piri, Mr Stoffer, Mr Kuzu, Mr Simons, Mr Teunissen, Mr Eppink, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga, Mr Bromet, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-813]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u849	Mr. Chairman. I started this debate with the appeal to the cabinet: no more smokescreens, but answer. And what did we get? Blocks, references to later evaluations, shoving off on others. The answer was completely inadequate and the Foreign Minister could not convince us that she took sufficient direction and leadership in this crisis during the evacuation period. We don't approve of that. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the context of good employership, the cabinet has a heavy responsibility for the security of local embassy staff;]] [[Whereas, despite repeated warnings from staff themselves, there has been too light and too late action;]] [[Whereas this has seriously endangered staff;]] [[Whereas the Court has been informed too late and incompletely;]] [[Whereas the Minister for Foreign Affairs is ultimately responsible for the evacuation operation;]] [[declares that the cabinet acted irresponsiblely and rejects this practice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Piri, Mr Stoffer, Mr Kuzu, Mr Simons, Mr Teunissen, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Eppink, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Bromet, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-814]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u850	Mr. Chairman. I find the intervention of the cabinet on Afghanistan very worrying. The government's failed hard. I shall look in particular at the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because she is ultimately responsible for this dossier. So she is also responsible for the policy, which is far below the mark. In particular, it is clear that the cabinet has acted far too late. I am also looking at the Belhaj motion, which is now going to be filled in differently. Then the Chamber is incompletely informed, see the revelations in the Volkskrant, in particular the emergency cries from the embassy. And last but not least, she claims that no mention has been made of 3 of the 60 family members, while the ambassador's e-mail is crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u851	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u852	Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses confidence in the Minister of Foreign Affairs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-815]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u853	Mr. Chairman. Throughout the debate I have tried to focus on what it has been for me and what it will always be for me. So I'm still gonna have those two women I saw this morning and talked to in my head. And that's what I'm doing here. I think the Chamber has done something incredibly beautiful. But as the Prime Minister said, it's actually I'm translating the sad thing that the Chamber had to do and it was necessary for leadership to be shown. In any case, I hope that in the future that leadership will be shown on missions, so that we do not have to go through this ridiculous situation anymore. I look forward to the continuation of the implementation of the motion and also to the fact that everything will be done to ensure that people come safely to the Netherlands. I think it is right and proper that the regrets of the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister have been expressed here. I am also very shocked by many new things I have heard from the Minister of Defence about the motion that has not been carried out, confusion about the number of interpreters, etc. I do not have a positive feeling about this debate. I think there's been a lot of talk, but, more importantly, I've always said that I value a good independent investigation. I will support Mr Boswijk's motion later. I have already said to Hawija and to the LIMC: I think it is important for the Chamber to know everything before you draw any conclusions. We have already made some progress today, but the report, knowing that everything is on the table, will be a very important moment for me. Because then we know exactly how so many mistakes have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u854	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u855	Mr. Chairman. The only point all directors were clear about was that they said there was no total failure. Then I wonder: if it's not a total failure, have we failed a little? And if we keep to those people who are still in Afghanistan the story that we have not completely failed, what do they buy for it? In any case, the motion of censure of the PvdA, which we have co-signed, can count on our support. I also have a number of motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Article 90 of the Constitution obliges us to promote the international legal order;]] [[considers that the Dutch withdrawal from Afghanistan does not relieve the government of its moral obligations towards millions of Afghans;]] [[Calls on the Government to develop various scenarios in which the Netherlands can continue to support NGOs, both nationally and internationally, working in Afghanistan and contributing to the promotion of the international legal order;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the House of Representatives for the Budgetary Treatment of Foreign Affairs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that local embassy staff expressed concerns about the security situation in Afghanistan at various times;]] [[Whereas there were already several signals in international media that could have recognised the deteriorating security situation;]] [[calls on the Minister for Foreign Affairs to identify concrete points of improvement in the circulation of knowledge and information, to incorporate them in an improvement plan, to inform the House of Representatives about the progress made and to act accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Dassen, Mr Simons, Mr Bromet, Mr Teunissen, Mr Piri, Mr Stoffer and Mr Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-816]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-817]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u856	As far as I am concerned, this motion is important. The pre-opinion is important to support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u857	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Van Wijngaarden of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u858	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the deep regret expressed by the cabinet here. As far as I am concerned, that has meaning, but of course it is not enough. We must also continue to investigate. There will be a motion from Mr Boswijk and we ourselves have a number of motions. I'm gonna read it to you soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, at the same time as the Netherlands, other smaller and larger European countries also carried out evacuations from Afghanistan under largely the same conditions and comparable time pressure;]] [[Considers that comparing clear differences between countries in the planning and implementation of evacuations helps to draw lessons;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to compare the planning and implementation of the evacuation of compatriots and other evacuations carried out by the Netherlands, France, Germany, Great Britain, Denmark and Norway;]] [[invites the Cabinet to draw lessons from this wherever possible for planning and carrying out any future Dutch evacuation operations and future reception of evacuated persons, and to inform the Chamber thereof before the end of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that during the preparation and implementation of a non-combatant evacuation operation, such as the evacuation of the Dutch Embassy in Kabul, a clear chain of command with perseverance was lacking;]] [[whereas local employees were in uncertainty about their own fate until the last moment, but a successful operation was heavily dependent on them because of their commitment as local translators;]] [[Considering that there are persistent complaints about the long response periods and difficult accessibility of the consular crisis team at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs;]] [[Calls on the Foreign and Defence Ministers, in anticipation of other evaluations, to draw up an improvement plan on at least the speed of response of requests for assistance to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a clear chain of command in non-combatant evacuation operations, to involve an external party with expertise, to send this to the Chamber before December 2021 and to report on its implementation half-yearly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Boswijk, Mr Stoffer, Mr Ceder, Mr Dassen, Mr Belhaj and Mr Bromet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-818]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Boswijk, Mr Stoffer and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-819]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u859	I'd like to read one more motion. It's very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u860	Is the room okay with that? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u861	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that despite the enhanced travel advice to leave Afghanistan as soon as possible, large groups of people have travelled to Afghanistan;]] [[Whereas persons could have been contacted at Schiphol Airport between checking in for final destination Kabul and boarding the aircraft;]] [[invites the Cabinet to discuss with relevant parties at Schiphol Airport to consider whether and how, where appropriate, the Dutch and the status holders can be strongly warned that they are travelling to very unsafe areas where the advice also applies to leave this area and register it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Boswijk, Mr Stoffer and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-820]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u862	Mr. Chairman. Where I had a feeling of new leadership in the previous debate, I now felt that the PvdA and GroenLinks had to maintain the Belhaj motion and that the CDA and D66 groups were very quiet. Anyway, I can live with it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government plans to stop dealing with Afghans' incoming aid requests on Friday 17 September and to stop making concrete attempts to evacuate for the time being;]] [[whereas an unknown number of persons under the scope of the Belhaj c.s. motion falls still in Afghanistan and should fear for life, partly because of the lack of action of the Dutch government;]] [[calls on the Government to keep open until further notice and to deal with reports, without prejudice to all realistic options for evacuation for the group of persons under the scope of the Belhaj c.s motion. use until the entire group is brought to safety, and inform the Chamber about progress every two weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the establishment of a decision and departure Moratorium will not start the asylum procedures of Afghan asylum seekers until further notice;]] [[Whereas it is important for Afghan asylum seekers to be clear about their right of residence in the Netherlands as soon as possible and to be able to take steps to this end pending the new thematic communication on Afghanistan;]] [[Whereas, almost all of Afghanistan is currently under the authority of a jihadist terrorist movement and should therefore be designated as an unsafe area within the meaning of Article 15c of the Qualifications Directive;]] [[calls on the Government to designate Afghanistan as an unsafe country within the meaning of Article 15c of the Qualifications Directive at least until after the entry into force of the thematic message on Afghanistan and the subsequent revision of country policy on Afghanistan, to withdraw and initiate the decision moratorium for Afghan asylum seekers with the prompt treatment of their asylum procedures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet, Mr Dassen, Mr Simons, Mr Teunissen and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-821]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet, Mr Dassen, Mr Kuzu, Mr Teunissen, Mr Simons and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-822]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u863	I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is uncertainty as to the quality and presence of the consular and military evacuation plans as present in Kabul;]] [[calls on the Government to submit both plans to the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare the evacuation plans in high-risk countries in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to communicate to all embassies that embassies should always remain open until the last possible moment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make an active effort to receive Afghan refugees in its own region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-823]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-824]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-825]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u864	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u865	Mr. Van Haga sets a good example. I am not saying anything about the content, but only about the factor of time. Mr Boswijk of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u866	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just making up for Mrs Bromet's comment, because I thought I was here all the time. I was absent for a moment. That was when I had to fix an Afghan guy who was stranded on a bus trip to Germany. It worked, thanks to Minister Kaag's PA. So excuse me for not being sharp at the time. Mr. Chairman. As a Chamber, we have called for an independent inquiry on a number of occasions. The cabinet has taken over a little bit, but it is already being switched with some kind of evaluation. As a Chamber, we really want an independent investigation, not an evaluation. That is why we are tabling a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the Netherlands carried out a large-scale evacuation operation from Kabul in the period from 18 to 26 August, after the Taliban had taken over power in Afghanistan;]] [[noting that dozens of interpreters employed by the Dutch armed forces and their families in Afghanistan have been left behind;]] [[noting that hundreds of Dutch nationals and residents, (former) Defence staff and people who have worked for Dutch organisations have not been evacuated;]] [[noting that in the letter to the Chamber (Room 27925, No. 808) indicates that an independent external committee of a temporary nature should be set up to evaluate the crisis approach including evacuations;]] [[calls on the government to have this independent external committee conduct an investigation into the situation from the adoption of Belhaj and others motion. (Roompiece 35300-X, No. 44) on the interpretation arrangements, and at least refer to the deal between the United States and the Taliban of February 2020, the Dutch intelligence position, the preparatory evacuation plans, the implementation of the chamber motions, the communication and cooperation between ministries, the conduct of the evacuation operation, the possible international legal consequences and to submit the commission's mandate to the Chamber, and to do so within four weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Boswijk, Mr Piri, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Bromet, Mr Stoffer, Mr Ceder, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Dassen, Mr Van Haga, Mr Simons, Mr Belhaj, Mr Kuzu and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-826]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u867	I very much doubt this motion. Because first of all, the cabinet itself is going to investigate. So the question is, what does this motion add? Secondly, however, I know that Mr Omtzigt will be coming up with a motion for a parliamentary questioning. That is actually an investigation, but by parliament. I actually think that's a better way. Can Mr Boswijk imagine this, and also the co-signators of that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u868	I did see the motion. To be honest, we are not yet clear on this as a group, but my first thought was: if we want to do this parliamentary questioning, then I really want to have all the facts on the table first. I think that an independent investigation is quite different from an investigation that the cabinet itself, for example, is going to do. If a truly independent committee is going to investigate first, we have all the facts. That can only help if the result is that we do such a parliamentary interrogation later. At the same time, we already have an enormous workload in the Chamber at the moment, with very many small groups and a number of parliamentary surveys still on the table. Plus me personally: I have been very involved in this myself. I also think that I should stay out of it myself, because perhaps the conclusion may also be that a Member of Parliament has gotten in the way of the ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u869	Mr Van Dijk, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u870	That last problem is easily solved if you simply allow a party member to sit on that committee. And the investigation is, of course, done by parliament. So in that sense, you don't have to worry. The moment you do the parliamentary interrogation, you're gonna do that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u871	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u872	The argument that there are so many parliamentary surveys does not seem to me to be valid. You need to go into this case right now. Do you think it's worth involving Parliament in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u873	We have an independent investigation as a starting point. We are going to consider the other. But I have to say quite frankly: with the arguments I have just mentioned, we are going to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u874	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u875	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that asylum applications from asylum seekers from Afghanistan have been assessed negatively;]] [[Considering that the Taliban are now in power in Afghanistan and that reports of torture, ill-treatment and other situations of insecurity and inhumanity are increasing;]] [[Whereas, in the light of the principle of non-refoulement, this may have implications for the assessment of such asylum applications;]] [[calls on the Government to review all rejected asylum applications from asylum seekers from Afghanistan in order to assess whether the changed circumstances in Afghanistan lead to a different assessment of the asylum application, while not imposing the burden of submitting a repeated asylum application on Afghan refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Dassen, Mr Bromet, Mr Teunissen, Mr Kuzu and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-827]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u876	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the burden of proof for Afghan refugees to prove that they are in mortal danger in Afghanistan is so severe that many of them cannot comply with this burden of proof;]] [[calls on the Government to review the burden of proof for all incoming asylum applications of Afghan refugees against the risks posed by human rights defenders, journalists and Afghans who otherwise face a particular risk under the Taliban regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Teunissen and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-828]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u877	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a long debate, but in my discussion with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on our migration policy, I became a little clearer whether it has played a role. That is why I have two more questions for our Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for JenV. In what way has the Dutch migration policy influenced the process of the evacuation operation and the implementation of the Belhaj motion? And why hasn't protocols and policies been removed, when it was obvious that it could have saved human lives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u878	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u879	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The picture maintains that the cabinet has been stalling for a very long time, at the end of the day running and then tripping, and that it has hardly applied self-reflection to the question of how it is possible that the cabinet based its policy on assumptions, as they themselves say, and had far too little regard for the people to whom the Netherlands owes a debt of honour. The Netherlands is seriously failing people who have supported us for years at risk for their own lives, people who are now in agony. That is why the Animal Party strongly supports the motions of censure and mistrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u880	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u881	Thank you. The Chamber, heard the debate, whereas 23,000 e-mails have already been received from Afghans in the context of asylum; Whereas hundreds of thousands of immigrants have been coming to the Netherlands on a permanent basis in the last 10 years; Whereas, as a result, the Netherlands suffers, among other things, from a huge housing shortage; Whereas refugees can also be received in neighbouring countries; calls on the Government to establish a moratorium on asylum applications, and moves to the order of the night. The: This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen. She's getting No. 829 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u882	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the Netherlands is largely strategically dependent on allies when participating in missions and operations, and in particular the US;]] [[Whereas the crisis situation in Afghanistan teaches that it may be necessary to have sufficient military and diplomatic capacity for self-employed effective action;]] [[Whereas the years of austerity on the armed forces have seriously undermined this capacity, with great danger to the security of Dutch citizens and allies worldwide;]] [[points out that additional billions of investment in defence is essential and should be given top priority in the formation of a next cabinet and the establishment of a government agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Boswijk, Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Van Haga and Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-830]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u883	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that significant errors have been made in preparing for the evacuation from Kabul and that only limited clarification has been provided;]] [[decides to hold a parliamentary interrogation, including the claim of documents to the preparation of the evacuation from March 2020 to September 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Eppink, Mr Simons, Mr Piri, Mr Dassen, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuzu, Mr Teunissen, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-831]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u884	It would be tabled by Mr Omtzigt, but it has gone elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u885	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u886	Mr. Chairman. A great deal has emerged from this debate, including the fact that mistakes have been made over the past few months, as has also been pointed out by the Cabinet of Ministers, that there has been too little direction and for too long acted with restraint towards those who could or could not be evacuated. That's sad. It means that too little justice has been done to people. That's what we need to learn from. That is why, together with Mr Boswijk, I have signed the motion to set up an independent committee. I also think we should look forward. That is why I have tabled a number of motions together with Mr Van Wijngaarden. Mr. Chairman. I have two outstanding questions that haven't been answered. I hope to be clear about that. On what day did the Foreign Minister know that the French evacuation was offered? When did she know that? I had also requested that in the meantime contact the ambassador and the person who called her in order to clarify how the sentence about the three people could sneak into the mail. I hope that this has taken place and I can get some clarity about it. Mr. Chairman. It's tragic. This is what we need to learn from. I also look forward to making sure that we do justice to the people who are covered by the Belhaj motion, the people we all believe have helped the Dutch mission. I will follow that critically. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u887	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u888	Thank you. I will wait until the ministers and the Prime Minister have spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u889	I call Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u890	It's so annoying when I keep getting through those conversations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the end of the Dutch presence in Afghanistan;]] [[Whereas there is a need for a public place for commemoration, conversation and processing among groups involved in our engagement in Afghanistan;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet, together with veterans' organisations and relatives of fallen soldiers, to make plans for a publicly accessible National Afghanistan Monument;]] [[calls on the Minister to include the names of all Dutch soldiers killed in Afghanistan and also to pay attention to veterans and local Afghans who were loyal to us;]] [[calls on the Court to submit those plans to the Court by May 2022;]] [[Furthermore, we continue to spread common sense in the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is uncertainty as to the intensity of the contact with Afghans to evacuate the Netherlands under the Belhaj motion;]] [[noting that the Chamber is receiving signals from people in this group that there is no weekly contact;]] [[calls on the Minister to draw up an anonymous list on a weekly basis, indicating the number of persons to be evacuated by the Ministry under the Belhaj motion, indicating how many of them, and in what way, have been directly contacted during that week, and to share this list with the Chamber on a weekly basis until the Belhaj motion has been fully implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-832]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-833]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u891	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u892	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that until 9 September more than 44,000 e-mails with the request for evacuation from Afghanistan have been received by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs;]] [[noting that almost 23,000 of these e-mails seem to relate to the Belhaj motion;]] [[noting that the Dutch asylum shelter is full, that large-scale emergency shelters are being rigged and that the influx figures now match the numbers of the 2015 asylum crisis;]] [[noting that the Belhaj motion threatens to lead to an uncontrolled influx of asylum seekers who cannot bear the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain retroactively from broadening the groups to be evacuated as laid down in the Belhaj motion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-834]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u893	The second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to the IND, some 1,200 persons from the Netherlands resided in Afghanistan at the time of the evacuation;]] [[noting that three quarters of these were Afghans with a Dutch passport and status holders;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet has not yet mapped out the number of status holders (certain and indefinite periods) in Afghanistan and are still in Afghanistan;]] [[noting that status holders with a fixed-term residence permit are not allowed to return to their country of origin and that, on this basis, dozens of residence permits have been withdrawn in recent years;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the residence permit of status holders if it appears that they have been illegally resident in Afghanistan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-835]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u894	Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u895	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u896	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Taliban have established an interim government which includes terrorists on US or UN sanctions lists;]] [[whereas such a government should never derive any legitimacy or benefit financially as a result of Dutch policy;]] [[calls on the Government not to regard the Taliban as a legitimate representative of Afghanistan, not to recognise the Islamic emirate of Afghanistan and under no circumstances to provide aid to that regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-836]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u897	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands is not responsible for the enormous flow of asylum triggered by the break-up of Afghanistan;]] [[calls on the government to close the Dutch borders, to put an asylum stop in place and not to accept Afghans in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-837]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u898	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to give the motions an appreciation and to answer a single question. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u899	I see the Prime Minister is the first to make his contribution. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u900	Mr. Chairman. Asylum policy versus the situation in Afghanistan. We are applying asylum policy. Of course, the application of asylum policy always affects numbers. Then I'll be happy to deal with all the motions. The motions on the documents Nos. 813, 814 and 815 do not require appreciation from the government. Then the motion to part No. 816: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 817: Judgment Chamber. We take this into account in the evaluation and on that basis we want to identify the points of improvement. The motion in part No. 818: Judgment Room. We also take this into account in the evaluation. We would rather not anticipate that, so I would like to have room to do so after the evaluation has been completed. That's possible only after the end of the year. Anyway, that's our thought. Furthermore, it's fine to do this. It also fits in with the debate. The motion in part No. 819: Judgment Room. That is also what we would like to take with us in the evaluation. The motion in part No. 820: Judgment Room. I must add, however, that this is going to be very difficult to implement. We're gonna see if we can do this, but it's almost impossible. So I fear that we are not going to come up with a very nice answer, but we are going to try to argue that correctly. Maybe we'll find out when we're working on the argument that it's possible. But we're sad about it now. The motion in part No. 821 is not recommended with reference to the debate. This motion is really impossible. The motion in part No. 822 is not recommended. Of course I see the coverage of Afghanistan. It is clear that there is great cause for concern, but we cannot, on the basis of these images, determine which people in Afghanistan are at risk and when. For this we always use a secure description of the situation in the country, the message of office. We really want to wait and see. In the meantime, the decision of the departure Moratorium applies. In other words, exactly what we discussed in the debate. Against that background, the motion is dissuaded. The motion in part No. 822 is not recommended. This is not possible for safety reasons. It is ready in time, is our expectation. The motion in part No. 823: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 824: Judgment Room. Reception in the region is an important starting point for government policy. The same applies to Afghanistan. At the same time, this does not affect the commitment to your Chamber as described in the letter from, in the meantime, the day before yesterday. In other words, judge Room. The motion in part No. 826: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 827: dissuade. This does not fit in with the current decision and the departure Moratorium. We therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 828: also dissuade. There's a departure moratorium now. Country policy shall be based on official messages. We cannot anticipate its content. The motion in part No. 829: dissuade. The law does not provide for the possibility of prohibiting a person from submitting an application for asylum. The motion in part No. 830 is not for the cabinet. The motion in part No. 831 isn't for us either. That's not up to us. The motion in part No. 832: dissuade. It's already there, in Roermond, for peace missions. The motion in part No. 833: dissuade. It's totally unfeasible. The motion in part No. 834: not enforceable. Dissuade, because of retroactivity and other aspects. Then the motion to part No. 836. Then you will think: where is the motion in part No. 835? That's what I think now, but okay. The motion in part No. 836 is way ahead of schedule. That's why I didn't recommend it. The motion in part No. 837: dissuade. That's ridiculous. Then the motion to part No. 835. I found it here. Dissuade. Apart from the fact that the figures in this motion are not recognised, we should mention here that, as reported in the first term, the IND permits reconsider in the cases mentioned above. That's an individual test. The motion asks to withdraw categorically, without individual test. That's why we don't recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u901	Thank you. We have almost reached the end of this, but Mrs van der Plas from BBB has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u902	I have a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 833. The outgoing Prime Minister says that this motion is totally unenforceable. My question is why this motion is totally unenforceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u903	It is precisely because of the great problem with the feasibility of the Belhaj motion, which we all wish to carry out in spirit and in letter, that the letter from the cabinet last night described how we are looking for a way forward in consultation with other countries and IOM and UNHCR. I'm referring to that letter from the cabinet last night. It describes it in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u904	I'll check on Mrs. Piri. Does she have a question for the Prime Minister? That is not the case. I shall then give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u905	Mr. Chairman. There are two short questions. The first is whether I have been informed of reports from the French offer and, if so, whether I can give a date. We have not been able to find out that I have been informed. I don't think so myself. I myself asked a question on the basis of the NOS message. That was somewhere in August, so in the period since the offer. There was also the advice of the embassy, Ambassador Wijgers, in consultation with The Hague, in July, not to go into it. The rest has been discussed. But I haven't been informed myself, as I had estimated before. So I do not know the date of the information, I say to Mr Ceder, because if I have not been informed, I cannot put a date on it either. The other question concerns the three people. I would like to reaffirm that I have spoken once again with the Deputy Secretary-General, Mrs Carola van Rijnsoever, and with the Director of Asia. I didn't talk to the ambassador in Kabul. Once again to confirm what I said earlier about the conversations that first took place by telephone with Ambassador Wijgers and then in an e-mail response to them: no number has been mentioned in the BWO. In the first BWO the line was agreed that the usual policy, in accordance with the arrangements made for the interpreters and core families, would be applied to embassy staff and their core families to be evacuated. The telephone conversation referred again to the possibility of a follow-up discussion with the IND on the persons who might be eligible, but with the indication that, as with the interpreters, there is likely to be a restrictive application. That has only changed, as described by the Prime Minister in August. But we don't recognize the three.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u906	No, Mr. Van Dijk. Plenty of questions have been asked and there has been enough debate on this issue. That concludes this debate. First of all, I would like to thank the directors for their detailed answers to all the questions. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament and the viewers at home. Actually, we always assume that people are still watching. There are two points of order on the votes. I shall first give the floor to Mrs van der Plas and then to Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u907	Apologies. I was just rushing forward because I was late and I couldn't do it anymore. I would like to ask for roll-call votes on the motion of censure and the two motions of censure tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u908	Thank you. Mrs. Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u909	My request is that we vote in daylight, especially when it comes to the motions of censure and disapproval that lie ahead, at the beginning of the afternoon meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u910	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-15-tweedekamer-8.u911	We agreed that it would be most practical to vote as much as possible at one time. We have the Corona debate tomorrow. It has already been announced by BBB that a motion will have to be voted by roll call. I propose that we vote on all the motions at once after the Corona debate, because we agreed to concentrate as much as possible on one moment. We can therefore vote jointly and severally on the motions. I'm closing the meeting. Thank you.
