ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Before we start, I would like to welcome the interpreters to sign language. They are present for the first time in our temporary accommodation. I think I can summarize the opinion of the Chamber when I say that we are very happy that this is happening. The debate can be followed with the interpreters via the livestream on secondkamer.nl. By the way, the debates are also live subtitled, also in the Debat Direct app. A warm welcome to the interpreters sign language. There are about 18 speakers. I would like to agree with the Members of Parliament that in the first term we may address four questions or comments and six questions or comments to the directors. I'm gonna see if everyone's okay with it, even if I'm gonna stick to it. Four questions or comments to each other and six questions or comments to the directors. Of course, I will make sure that questions are answered as well as possible. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The one-and-a-half meter rule goes into the trash. I think that's what everyone looks like. If you want to get away, that is of course everyone's right. Some people won't be looking for stumpy bars, others won't be able to wait. As a liberal party, the VVD considers one's individual freedom crucial, but it is not unlimited, especially if it restricts the freedom of others or even threatens the health of others. We also have a responsibility to society as a whole and to each other. The choice to have you vaccinated is voluntary, but a large group of vaccinees should not be disproportionately affected by the free choice of a small group of people who do not want to be vaccinated. We deliberately choose not to impose stringent and restrictive measures on anyone who has been vaccinated. That is why we support the introduction of corona tickets in sport, culture and catering and for events. We still have a few questions. How is the limit of three-quarters occupancy determined at events inside? Why has tickets been chosen for terraces? As a VVD, we find that hard to explain. Is there an exception to that? What about the neighborhood cafe where the owner himself is behind the tap? How does he control it? And what arrangements are there with the municipalities and the police? I am quite annoyed by the mayors who are now calling for no or limited enforcement. As far as we are concerned, there is no extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u3	There is an interruption by Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u4	Before we just talk about the terraces, let me ask you something else. I assume that the colleague of the VVD agrees with me that motions from the Lower House that have been adopted, even if you have not supported them, should be carried out. I'm not asking that as a question, because then I've lost one of my four questions, but I'm assuming you agree. If you agree with me, you will also know that two motions have been adopted which say that no coercive or urgent measures should be taken, and that there should be no direct or indirect corona vaccination obligation, a motion by Mr Azarkan. Those two motions were adopted by a majority of this Chamber. If you're a democrat and if you believe that motions should be carried out, I don't understand what you just said. What you just said just now, just means that in the Netherlands you can't get into a theatre, a restaurant or a pub if you're not vaccinated and you don't want to get tested three times a week. All trespassing, unless you get tested, which you may not want at all. So that's one hundred percent urge! It's a hundred percent urge, if you don't want a stick in your nose three times a week because you want to go to the theater once, have a pizza with your family at a restaurant once, and go to the pub once with friends. So you have to get tested three times, otherwise you just can't get in. So I ask you, what the hell are you doing as a liberal? You close society to a lot of people who simply for a good reason are free for whatever reason; people are autonomous there in decisions not to be tested. You are therefore not very democratic, because the Chamber, Madam, has said twice: we are not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u5	I think that the PVV and the VVD are something else in this, because I always hear the PVV say: we don't want any more measures at all. I can't explain that. I think that we really need to take the relaxing measures step by step, including with regard to care. I think the PVV always has an eye for that. Then you have to make choices. Those are sometimes very difficult dilemmas. Absolutely. But I think there is still a way in which people who have not been vaccinated can go to all these activities. I recognize that this will be a little more difficult for them than for vaccinees, because they can walk right in. But that possibility is still there. The cabinet has also decided to make or keep it free again. That is what I welcome about these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr President, it would be fair to say that if colleagues or directors do not answer, a repetition of the question does not count as a second interruption. You heard my question yourself. Everyone, the people at home and in the Chamber, have heard them. My question was: are you a democrat? Two motions have been passed saying: no urge. That was my question. Even if you have not supported the motion but it is adopted, I hope that as a democrat you think it should be implemented. It's pure urge. It's even indirect coercion. It is said: "If you are not pricked and you are unvaccined, then you should be tested three or four times a week if you want to go to the theatre, a sports competition, a restaurant or the pub. If you don't, you won't get in. Then the door will lock for you." Then people start thinking: "I might have to get vaccinated anyway, because I want to take my kid to that soccer game or have a pizza with my family on Saturday afternoon at the restaurant. Then let's vaccinate, because we don't want a stick like that in our noses three times a week as a family." That's an urge, isn't it? That's the definition of urge! Again, please respond to what the Chamber has said. The Chamber has said that we are not going to do that. That was stated in Mr Wilders' motion of 18 November 2020: a direct or indirect vaccination obligation is excluded, as well as coercive or coercive measures. Why do you accept that the government is rejecting this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u7	I can answer this for a very long time, but I think that the measures that are now being taken are well explained, also in the light of these two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u8	But Mr Wilders asks what you think of the motion and whether it has been properly implemented or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u9	Well, I find it explanatory. I still think this is in line with this motion, because I also see that there are alternatives. There is a possibility of testing and those tests remain free. I therefore find it quite understandable in the light of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u10	But that wasn't my question. The motion does not say: there must be an alternative. Mr Kuzu's motion and Mr Wilders' motion say: there must be no urge. This is pure urge, isn't it? Because if you don't, you're just gonna be excluded from social life. There is a division in society, because you no longer enter a restaurant, a pub or a theatre if you don't get tested. Then you get the word: you know what, I just let myself be pricked, because then my family doesn't have to get a stick in the nose three times a week. That's pure urge, isn't it? That motion is talking about urge. I will try one more time, and then I will stop, because if the lady does not want to answer, it says more about her than about me. The motion says "no urge," but this is pure urge and a division of society. Why don't you tell the cabinet, "I might agree with you, but I'm a democrat. The majority has said twice that we are not going to do so, so we are not going to do it"? Why don't you tell me? Why do you not defend the rights of this Chamber, which has passed a motion not to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u11	I think there is a good alternative to vaccination: free testing. The motion points to a vaccination obligation and to coercion and urge, indirectly and directly. I think there's a good alternative. I also think that we should look at how we can give the entrepreneurs more space so that they can exploit their business again with full occupancy. I also believe that we have a responsibility towards those who have vaccinated and those who are vulnerable and cannot be vaccinated. We have to take steps for that, too. We need to slow down the easing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u12	First, Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then Mr Kuzu of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u13	It is nice that Mr Kuzu and I are standing here at the same time. For Mr Kuzu and I have also tabled another motion, namely for the steering of beds, which has been adopted. I don't think she's been accepted completely Chamberwide, but she's just hired. So in the same line, I have a question. You can continue your vaccination obsession here and talk about dilemmas, but this is just a technical approach. There are 1.8 million people who have not yet been vaccinated, mainly young people. Do you think that you are right to deprive the whole country of its freedom if we can simply steer the bed and then release the country in a technically responsible and medically responsible way?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u14	I think Mr Van Haga might have a vaccination phobia. It's okay. He gets to make that choice. But I think it's important that we do send that occupation. What I read in the documents of the cabinet is that there is also a focus on hospital occupation and ic occupation and that is mainly directed at them. We also think it is important that we also look at the economic impact and the socio-economic impact on people in the country. We always make that total balance, and I think that this is a justifiable package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u15	It's amazing every time... But first, about the vaccination obsession. I don't have a vaccination phobia. If you are in the risk group, and you may be in the risk group, you should be vaccinated. If you want to jump into the ditch, be my guest. I have no objection to that at all. So I don't have a phobia at all. You have an obsession with vaccinating the entire population. But my question was another one. There is an approved motion by Mr Kuzu and myself that says: we are going to steer on bed occupancy. Do you have any idea how many of those 1.8 million people would actually end up on the ice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think it says in the pieces somewhere that it could be 2,000 to 3,000; let me sit a few hundred beside it. The reason behind this measure is precisely that we are considering how to spread it over time, so that it does not come at once and does not completely drown the care and not have to postpone all kinds of hospital treatment. I think that gives people a lot of uncertainty. That is why it is important that this occupation should indeed be taken into account. You may want other numbers of people who can do so, but the government is actually looking at ic and hospital occupation at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u17	Finally. You obviously don't have those numbers ready. If you bring in the percentages of RIVM, you get around 800 to 900 people. But if you were to arrest 2,000 people, all of them would have to end up in the hospital at the same time. That is absolutely unthinkable. With the current ic occupation, with the current bed occupancy, we can handle the 1.8 million. If they all got infected over time, or that's bad, it's a second thing, and if that small percentage comes on the ic, then you're talking about a very small number, a behapbar number of people. Don't you think that, if you get that right technically and medically, you should just stop taking all these bizarre measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u18	At very high occupancys of the Ic you thought so, too. I don't think so. I believe that we should now gradually relax. But we need to take that space if we can get rid of it. If that is justified and we do not get large numbers of infections, which eventually end up in the hospital and on the ICU, then I think that these measures should be taken off again; I shall be speaking about that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr. Van Haga, your fourth... Yeah? Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u20	Well, it doesn't seem to make any sense. We can calculate that the bed and ic occupation is no longer a problem. Then we can pretend that we are going to relax, but what is now being introduced are, of course, just increases. I ask my question again, which you are probably not going to answer again: why is it that, if we can calculate that there is no problem with the bed occupancy and there is no problem with the ic occupation, you say: well, no, yes, we still have to look at some things, maybe another 1.5 meters here, mouth caps on the train, all nice? There's no need anymore, and that's just math. So I ask you, once again, just do the math. Then we end up with those 800 people, who would end up on the ic if they all got corona at the same time. Why don't we just let the country out again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u21	I think that we are fundamentally different in the discussion, because I believe that Mr Van Haga has always thought that all the measures could be taken. We're not on that line. We really want to do this responsibly. I am pleased that we can now take a number of steps, but I also think that we should listen to what concerns us about the consequences it may have for them and, above all, for patients if they become overburdened and the ic's fill up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr Kuzu van DENK, then Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks and then Mrs Van Esch of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u23	We're on a sliding scale. Vaccination fanatics take steps each time to ensure that more and more people have to choose to be vaccinated. Nota bene the VVD Group voted three weeks ago in favour of a motion by Mr Paternotte asking for its own contribution for testing. That's lucky to be off the table right now. But just to make it very concrete, because I'm really trying to understand: what is the definition of urge according to the VVD? What exactly do you mean by "exercise"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u24	We can have a whole semantic discussion about compulsion or urge. I don't think that's the case right now, because there's just an alternative. There's a choice. You can also test. Then you can also go to those activities. In the overall weighing of the picture... on the one hand there are the concerns for care; on the other hand we want to give people and entrepreneurs more space... I think this is a good story to explain, also in the light of your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u25	I don't accept this as interrupting. The question is: what is according to the VVD urge?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u26	I think I'm still going over my own answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u27	And I'm talking about whether or not it's an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u28	Of course, Mr. Chairman. I do not know what the supplementary question is. I stand by my answer that I believe that this is quite understandable, also in the light of your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u29	To get it out of the semantics, we have asked as a Chamber to have the Health Council give an opinion on it. They have explained very neatly what they mean by urge. I'll read it to you. "There is an urge when a person's decision-making space is restricted." It's about influence through options, financial incentives, and so on. So that's very well described by the Health Council. I usually know the VVD as a political party that listens to the advice of the Health Council and the RIVM. Why do you not follow the advice of the Health Council and say that this is a semantic discussion? The definition is very precisely defined by the Health Council. You cannot say that when we look at the definition of the Health Council, the measure of the corona pass is not a clear form of urge, which the Chamber has voted against in a majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u30	I could perhaps follow Mr Kuzu's reasoning if it were said: you can only get this evidence with vaccination. But you can also get it after recovery or through disease. So there is an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u31	Nevertheless, the freedom of choice of people is restricted, because if they do not want to be tested or not to take a vaccine, there is a restriction of choice. I am not afraid of vaccinations, but I am also not a vaccination fanatic, such as the VVD, who every time tries to take the step towards: people have to be vaccinated. Here the freedom of choice of people is restricted. Because if they don't, they have to be tested or vaccinated. This removes the freedom the VVD is talking about completely from society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u32	I don't hear a question. I hear more of a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u33	Well, I'd like to respond briefly. For if you have listened carefully to my speech, you have heard that I have indeed started with that individual freedom. We consider them crucial. But there are also limitations to freedom. Freedom is not unlimited. She's not without obligation, either. It also includes responsibility at some point. If you use that freedom of choice and then limit a very large part of society, I think you should consider it. I think I explained this in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u34	We are also entering into this debate with the question of what to do to protect the most vulnerable people in our society. But there's another side to it. I would like to hear from the VVD Group what the epidemiological purpose of asking for a corona pass on the terrace is. Isn't that just the question of what we could do to make sure that many more people are vaccinated? Isn't that the underlying idea of asking for those corona tickets in so many places, including the terrace and the sports canteen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u35	I think I have just said in my own speech that I would like to explain, for example, the terraces. I personally find that point very difficult to explain, because we do allow all kinds of outdoor events. I would therefore like an exception to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u36	That, of course, was not the full answer to my question. I asked about the purpose: what is the purpose of that? Can the VVD explain that? But does the VVD group also think that society is sufficiently involved in that fundamental question of what we should do to ensure that a high vaccination rate is achieved without sacrificing individual choices and freedoms of people, which the VVD Group has just mentioned? So is society sufficiently taken into account in this fundamental question, to which we must find an answer in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u37	The aim of the measure of corona admissions is not to raise the vaccination rate for me. The goal is for me to give more space to people, so that we can go back to the pubs with full occupancy, do events again with full occupancy and give entrepreneurs more space. For me, that's the purpose of putting in those corona tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u38	Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party, then Mr Baudet of the Democracy Forum and then Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u39	I am usually curious about this objective, because I think Minister De Jonge has indicated that the objective would indeed be to increase the vaccination rate. I wonder what the VVD thinks of the fact that there are investigations of the behavioral unit of the RIVM and also of ZonMw. There are scientists who say that this coronapas is going to work counter-productively. If your goal is to increase the vaccination rate, as this Minister has indicated, I wonder what the VVD thinks is going to be left if this is going to be counterproductive and scientists are already warning us about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u40	I may not have listened to all the Minister's words. What I have heard from him is that this may have the side effect that people decide eventually to take that vaccination, no matter why they may not have done it before. Let me be honest: I think it is extremely important that we simply raise the vaccination rate very substantially. That is not the purpose of this measure. I will ask the Minister a number of questions later: what action does he intend to take to achieve this, in particular to ensure that vulnerable people, especially those who cannot be vaccinated and in which the vaccine is not working, can simply participate in society again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u41	I'm still curious. Then it would be a side effect, but I think it's just the business here that the idea is to vaccinate more people. Then I insist that the behavioral scientists, even the behavioral unit of the RIVM, professors, have done an investigation that indicates that this is going to work counter-productively. This isn't gonna help raise the vaccination rate. People are gonna put their heels in the sand. Then I wonder why we are taking such a far-reaching measure and are going to create such a division in society, because that has already been warned of. Why don't we respect those behavioral scientists who say "don't do this" and why don't we look at them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u42	In my opinion, we are indeed doing it for a lot of people in the country who want more space and who want to get rid of that one-and-a-half-meter measure and those entrepreneurs who also want to get rid of that one-and-a-half-meter measure. That's what we're doing it for. And, of course, we need to see how we can reach the groups that might think through this measure 'well I'm not going to do it at all'. But for me that is not the ultimate purpose of this measure. For me, the goal isn't to raise the vaccination rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u43	The question was also about the behavioral scientists. I'm just trying to help out once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u44	Yes, but sometimes a lot of questions are asked in one interruption and then it's a bit of a choice for me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u45	Yeah, that's right, but maybe you can still respond to that. I also agreed that I'm a little flexible with interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u46	Indeed, we heard yesterday that some people will say by means of these measures: now I am going to be vaccinated. And there will probably also be a group that may persist or harden in opposing it. But yes, every measure we take... I think that if we did not delete that one-and-a-half-meter measure with the help of this instrument, then there would again be people who say: I am completely done with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u47	I have a slightly different kind of question. I was wondering what Mrs De Vries thinks of the serological tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u48	What exactly do you mean by "what do you think of that"? Maybe I can explain the question before I answer Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u49	Well, we're talking about people having to test themselves with a PCR test, so that's the test if you... Well, it doesn't work, but it should test whether you're sick or contagious. But the serological test, which allows you to see in people's blood if they have antibodies, and so, for example, that they are immune for a long time, immune for life. In my case for example: I've had corona; only, I didn't get tested at the time, because I'm against those PCR tests. But for me, and for a lot of people in the Netherlands, vaccination is so, if you already believe that corona is dangerous and that those vaccines work - which I don't believe... Anyway, suppose you believe that, it still doesn't make any sense for that group of people to get vaccinated. Strangely enough, however, we do not allow these serological tests. So it's not possible to say, guys, I'm already immune; look in my blood, you can see it, so I don't need to take a vaccine. Why is that? Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u50	I do like to hear that, if that serological test were to be there, Mr Baudet would apparently want to work with a QR code and corona tickets...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u51	No, that's not true at all, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u52	But apart from that, I think that is a good question in itself. I mean, and that might not sound very charming: I would also like to pass it on to the cabinet, or be able to do so, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u53	We have often tabled enough motions on this in recent years, and Mrs De Vries' party has always voted against it. They have always said: no, we are not going to include those serological tests in the possibilities of proving that you are already immune to corona, and so on. Apparently, you have never thought about that yourself, and then it should be passed on to the cabinet? What is that way of filling out your membership? You can find something of that yourself, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u54	Well, sometimes I also like to hear from, for example, the cabinet, or from experts, what are the advantages and disadvantages of it, what are their comments and limitations. That's how I fill out my membership. I'd like to hear it from others, too. We're having a debate here. It is not that I am only here on the spot to say: this is what I think, and I am not listening to what the cabinet, for example, has to say about it, or experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u55	But I'm just finishing up. So, for example, the blood bank is looking at how many percent of people have antibodies. And part of it is measured by the gene therapy of that vaccination, but part of it is with antibodies from the people who have had a corona infection. That's millions of people, and they're just immune. And so there's no reason... If you believe all this story, this whole story about "corona is dangerous," "vaccines work"; it's all bullshit, I say again. Anyway, even if you believe all that, it still doesn't make any sense at all about that rather large group of people... According to research, more than 95% of the Dutch population would have just antibodies by now, if you count those vaccinations as antibodies. Then it's bullshit to say that that group still needs to be vaccinated or tested. You can agree with me on an argumentative level, can't you? You don't have to look at Mom and Dad in the cabinet for that, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u56	Look, Mr Baudet is actually saying here: yes, that should be possible. But I would have found it much more sensible if, in his case, Mr Baudet had just been tested for complaints. That would have been better for us, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u57	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u58	You heard him, didn't you? So she doesn't go into my point at all, huh, not at all! Then there's a little bit of bullshit, kindergarten flies catching and so on. It's a disgrace! That's just ridiculous, isn't it? What I'm saying, makes total sense: it doesn't make sense to start vaccinating people if you already believe all that if they already have antibodies in their blood. But that's not what we're testing. And if you have that, if you have a serological evidence, that doesn't count as proof that you're immune. That's absurd, isn't it? Doesn't that mean there's nothing wrong with that whole story? That lady from the VVD can just go into that. Instead, I got some kind of you-bake. What the hell is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u59	I don't really hear a question, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u60	Then I go to Mr Stoffer of the SGP and then to Mrs Gündoğan of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mrs De Vries is positive about the coronapas. Let me be very clear: I am not. However, if we have a majority here at the end of the day behind what Mrs De Vries wants, so if we do have a corona pass, then you will have entrepreneurs who will have to meet it. Mrs De Vries has already indicated that there are entrepreneurs who, for example, only run a catering establishment. Then it's not easy. But there are also people with a company who say: my customers have a lot of trouble with it and stay away. If tomorrow it turns out that this coronapas is going to come after all when a majority supports it at the end of the day, is it then an option for Mrs De Vries to give entrepreneurs freedom of choice? Then they can choose whether to do so or whether to maintain the one-and-a-half meter measure. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u62	I have already mentioned this in the previous Corona debate and in the debate on the law. I would very much like that in itself. But I have also been convinced by the motivation from the minister and from the enforcers. They say that this will be a very serious problem for the enforcement and feasibility of the measures. I think we should look at that and listen to it, no matter how sorry I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u63	It is at least nice that Mrs De Vries says that she would like to do the same. Let us be honest: this enforcement is just going to be a very difficult thing. 'Cause you can't maintain everything. Is the next thing something else to do in the course of the day because you have all day to think about............................................................................................................................................................ Let us address people on their own responsibility. If you do a check sometime, you can see if the corona pass is being applied or the one and a half meter measure. Could we not, if we put that responsibility in society and the coronapas comes, come to just make both options possible for entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u64	If there is a signal that it could be a good option from the performers and the enforcers, then I can speak to you about that. I myself indicated that at the time when the law was being applied. In the previous Corona debate, I also had a discussion with this Minister. I'm not getting that signal right now. So let us ask the Minister whether that could be an option. Anyway, if I look at what has been said so far, I also think that it is poorly manageable and feasible. I'd like to make it easy on that side, too. I believe that this will ultimately benefit the introduction of the measures. If everything is taken for a walk, then we run the risk of having to reverse a number of relaxations. I really wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u65	I have a question, or actually a statement to which I would like to add a question. I think there is so much resistance to what Mrs De Vries is saying, because it is inconsistent. There is no single line of structural science. It is released one time and maintained the other time. I would like to ask whether Mrs De Vries is familiar with the Swiss cheese model.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u66	No, I'm afraid not. I need your help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u67	The Swiss cheese model is used for risks. That's what I use in the epidemic. The very first slices of a Swiss cheese are not enough to have sufficient measures to ward off the pandemic. Adding each slice together makes sure that it, all rolled together, delivers a safe model. What's happening here is this. By releasing the basic measures and only going to the coronapas, there is actually only one slice of Swiss cheese left. Actually, the system isn't waterproof. Do you agree with me, Mrs de Vries, through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u68	I wish it were true that we only had one basic measure, but there are a number of other basic measures that I believe still apply. Indeed, a system of corona access tickets has been chosen for this group, category and activities. I think that could work, provided it looks good in the future. I'm still going into the QR code and test capacity. With every measure you take, and every system you introduce, there's always a risk. I think it is a responsible risk at the moment to take this step. But apparently Mrs Gündoğan doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u69	Personally, I'm not even interested in my opinion. I just like to look at the knowledge and skills of others, as well as of Nurses & Verzorgende Nederland. The restructuring plan shows that they are clearly concerned about the ic capacity in the Netherlands. Yesterday I asked questions about that in the technical briefing, in which you were also present. I'm not alone in that. For example, Mr Bonten said that we can only let go of these measures when the vaccination rate is 95%. We're nowhere near that. Mr Gommers is also very concerned. So opinions are irrelevant. I would like to ask Mrs De Vries: can we turn to science and do so? I would simply say, then, that some form of risk can only be maintained if the Swiss cheese model measures are maintained better than under the measures that you envisage. You're taking unnecessary risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u70	I think the opinion and advice from the care is very important, but it is not the only thing I am looking at. I also look at the economic and social consequences for people's well-being. I'll weigh that whole package. That is where the care weighs heavily. At the moment when it would not weigh heavily, we would say: boys, let's not do all those measures anymore. But I'm gonna make that trade-off with those three strikes. We have always indicated this as a VVD. That's what we're looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u71	My last time, I believe, Mr. Chairman. You're not taking it. You take note of that. Acting on it would mean another outcome. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u72	I think I can follow a lot of the considerations made by the VVD. My question is really: is this corona access pass the only option the VVD is seeing right now? There was also a question about target groups policy. I didn't really think there was an answer to that. I was at the same technical briefing yesterday, in which four groups were clearly set out. Can we not focus much better on these groups and come up with an approach that works by group? We're talking 5%, 6%. Can't we approach the problem much better than we're going to shoot the whole society with a shotgun?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u73	I agree with Mrs Pouw-Verweij that we should look very closely at the target groups in this vaccination. I think we'll just agree on that. I want to give society and entrepreneurs more space right now. That's always a trade-off. What time do you do that? I think the corona access card could be a good tool for getting that done. That certainly does not mean that we should abandon what Mrs Pouw-Verweij says. On the contrary. I think there must be a lot of time and energy in it to look very specifically at how, in socio-economically weak regions, in disadvantaged areas, on the blinkers but also among the elderly, for example, the vaccination rate really increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u74	I'm glad we can find each other in that, I say through the chairman. I understand that the entrepreneurs need to be given room. That's what my party is absolutely for. But again, it's such a small piece. Research suggests that we can expect a maximum of 91%. We're at 85.6% now. It's so little. And that's when next week there's gonna be 20,000 new shots. Maybe we'll just get there on our own, with a little extra effort here and there. Is this really the means that we need to use at the moment, despite all the polarization it provides and despite all the resistance from society and from experts?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u75	I understand perfectly well that there is resistance. I understand that very well. I think we should do this right now. I don't think it's that easy to get that last part of the vaccination rate up. We will have to make a great deal of effort in this regard. That'll take time, too. At the moment, I think that we should give more room to the very large group that has been vaccinated. It's not just about the entrepreneurs. I am also concerned about giving more space to people in the country and more opportunities for taking up activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u76	This is the last time. After that, I'm gonna wrap it up. I agree and I think that this is going to take some effort. Is it not up to the cabinet and the politicians to make that effort, to go for it now and to pull a little more hard on that last piece, instead of actually putting responsibility back on the citizens and saying: there is a limit to freedom, and actions have consequences; you have had your chance and we are now pulling our hands off it? Because that's how it feels to a lot of people in society. Is it not right for us and the cabinet to do that last bit of effort, and I acknowledge that there is a need to do so, and not to the people themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u77	I think we should do both. That is what we differ on. I think that we need to give society and entrepreneurs some fresh air so that they can carry out their activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u78	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u79	Thank you. If we work with the corona pass, it can't be that people who are fully vaccinated are having trouble getting QR codes. How is the minister gonna solve that problem and support all those people to get that QR code? Mr. Chairman. Given the increased pressure on test capacity with the corona tickets, this capacity should also be in order, given the 24-hour period of validity. Is that the case? Mr. Chairman. The VVD considers it important that vaccination certificates, recovery certificates and test certificates are treated as much as possible, so that we give those who cannot or do not want to be vaccinated the opportunity to participate, regardless of the size of your wallet. The VVD is therefore pleased that the cabinet has decided to keep testing for entry free now. Mr. Chairman. The VVD would like to have a broader and more fundamental debate on the future, rather than so ad hoc after each press conference, to have a good talk about the approach in the autumn, the future and living with the coronavirus in the longer term. We have to say goodbye to the measures if this is justified, such as the previous curfew and now the 1.5 metres, with all the risks that sometimes come with them. The same goes for the corona tickets. What's the perspective? What's the prospect? When and under what conditions can we get rid of that again? For this situation cannot and must not last indefinitely as far as we are concerned. Mr. Chairman. Several entrepreneurs still have to deal with the consequences of restrictive measures: the catering industry, in particular nighthoreca, the event sector, but also seasonal companies for which the season has sometimes fallen into the water and for which the season is now in fact over. The VVD has always said: if there are severe restrictions, there must also be support. The VVD hopes that there will soon be clarity about the support to the companies, such as the nighthoreca and events inside. What's taking so long? This was announced this summer. When will we be clear? We want it as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few short points. The VVD has already indicated in the previous debate that if we impose a duty of care on companies for a healthy and safe working environment, those companies should also have and can register the necessary information on vaccination, especially those where 1.5 metres cannot be properly observed or where people are working with vulnerable people. Looks like this is gonna go down in the consultation circuit. The VVD would like to speed up. When will this become clear? Because the Minister's letter does not clarify this. Vaccination is the way out of this crisis. What is the government doing in concrete terms to increase vaccination rates among groups in disadvantaged areas, in socio-economically weaker regions, in the blinkers and in the elderly? For example, will vaccination be considered at or near the access testing sites? The VVD supports the proposal to give a booster to people with a weak immune system, which I believe should be formally said: a third shot, and we certainly do not exclude more groups for the future. How does the cabinet keep the finger on the wrist? Mr. Chairman. We can do more and we can do more, and yet we want to ask everyone: use your common sense and please continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u80	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mr. Chairman. Today exactly one and a half years ago, the now outgoing Prime Minister made his lockdown speech from the Tower. He said: there is no easy or quick way out of this very difficult situation. No one knew where it would go exactly then, but it was clear that it would have become an unprecedented drama if we had the virus raided. Measures were needed, but they really hurt: children with learning disadvantages, students with loneliness and depression, entrepreneurs whose business was locked up and elderly people who were locked up and only in nursing homes. We did this to protect each other and vulnerable and not to get to the point where we had to choose which patient there was another bed and which one wasn't. Those images of desperate doctors in that hospital in Bergamo in 2020 I won't soon forget them. We are now a year and a half away and I thank science on my knees for the vaccines that she has given us. Because soon the mouth caps, tickets and basic rules will be all over the place. We are already seeing this in Denmark, where 97 of all 100 Danes over 50 years of age have been vaccinated. 97%. As a result, there are now only 18 Danes on the ventilator. That's how they're gonna be able to lift all the rules now. All thanks to those vaccines. What Denmark can do, so can we. However, we are not there yet, because in the Netherlands too few people still opt for vaccination, unfortunately. The reasons are sometimes principled, sometimes practical, but often also inspired by persistent and sometimes disgusting Indian stories. We have to do everything we can to do something about that. The GGD is doing its best; we can see that. But is everything really being pulled out of the closet to reach people? Four weeks ago, the Minister promised to consult the pharmacists on what they could do. Why hasn't that meeting taken place yet? And in a briefing from the RIVM yesterday the general practitioners are mentioned, but the general practitioners now have almost no role in the vaccination campaign. They're hardly pricking anyone anymore. Why? We also see that 50-plussers are at a much greater risk of getting seriously ill due to corona, but I do not hear or read any concrete examples to reach those 50-plussers. I'd like a reaction, because vaccinating is the way. The 95% of Mr. Bonten is not easy. This has to be top priority. So don't leave a stone untouched, open all registers and answer all the questions that live on humans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u82	Vaccination is a very good idea and medical disinformation and Indian stories are stupid. So far, we are in complete agreement. But I am concerned that the group of Dutch people who believe more in the medical disinformation and in the Indian stories and in the idea that there is a big conspiracy from the government to inject everyone with a chip with experimental gene therapy and with all of it, is going to feel stronger in that belief because there is now an indirect vaccination obligation, or at least an urge to have it vaccinated. I'm worried that these people will say, "You see, now they're trying to get me stabbed away. If it was a good vaccine, they wouldn't do it et cetera et cetera." I think those people will only harden in that belief. I would very much like to hear what Mr Paternotte thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u83	Well, we should really talk about what is the alternative to the fact that we are now working with corona tickets and thus opening society as much as possible. Because I honestly haven't heard that alternative since we've been standing here for an hour. On the question of whether we should look psychologically at how people experience that, I say: I think that is really very different. I find such a letter from a mayor from Nunspeet, who says 'I call on everyone to be vaccinated, because scientifically it is a very good idea, but I personally do not do it, because I am fundamentally against it' a very good example of how complex these considerations can be. There will indeed be people who have distrust of the government; we saw that yesterday at the briefing. There will also be people who hear bizarre stories, who stand on all kinds of parties throughout the country and hear from a certain someone that it's experimental gene therapy, which is total bullshit. There will also be people who say what I sometimes hear: I haven't done it yet, because it hasn't been necessary yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u84	I want to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u85	It's about gene therapy; do you have a personal fact about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u86	I didn't mention anyone, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u87	Let me take a look at Mrs Pouw-Verweij, because she stands with her good behavior in front of the interrupting microphone. Are you ready, Mr. Paternotte?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u88	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u89	I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u90	I'd like to make a personal statement, because I'm clearly being addressed here. The vaccine is experimental gene therapy. It works in a different way than traditional vaccines. It doesn't inject a dead virus particle into your body, but it injects a spike protein into your body that aims to induce an immunological reaction that will teach your body, as it were, to respond to what that virus would be. And so that's a form of gene therapy, or genetic engineering. Your genes, your immune system is being manipulated to give a reaction to the coronavirus. That is also one of the reasons why these vaccines do not work at all and after six months have already been worked out as far as they work, because the virus mutates continuously. So the effectiveness of that spike protein decreases extremely quickly. That's why it doesn't make any sense to take it. And that's why we're never gonna get out of here, because in six months you're gonna have to prick again, and again a new one, because it doesn't train your immune system to actually tackle the whole corona virus, but only one element of it, and that's that spike protein. The point of the experiment is also correct. It has been speeded up, without all these tests being carried out in the long term. We know from the past, for example in the case of the Mexican flu, that a vaccine can have very severe side effects in the long term, such as narcolepsy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr President, I do not know how much...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u92	It wasn't a personal fact. This was actually your last question, Mr. Baudet. It was really just an interruption. I give the floor to Mr Paternotte to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u93	It was about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u94	No, it was really your last question. I give the floor to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u95	The vaccine is safe. It's been through all the research phases. It's been investigated by health authorities all over the world. There's been billions of shots. I just gave the example of Denmark, where only 18 people are now on life support in intensive care, in a country with 6 million inhabitants. That is a factor of 3 or 4 less than we have in the Netherlands, because they have vaccinated much more there, especially in 50-plussers. I don't know what it was necessary for, but I didn't mention Mr Baudet. We just had to listen to this jump-off of fake news and Indian stories, but it doesn't add up. The vaccines have been tested safely. The nicest thing about the debate so far was that Mr Baudet was just making a whole speech against Mrs De Vries about how vaccines lead to antibodies in the blood and thereby protect against the coronavirus. I was hoping that we could've left it at that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u96	Thank you. Mrs Pouw-Verweij's final question and then Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u97	I would like to say something that is almost a point of order, or a point of order. As the only doctor in the Chamber, I feel somewhat the need. Doctors have very clear definitions for certain treatments. The medical definition of gene therapy is not a mRNA vaccine. You can use the terms you want, Mr. Baudet; that's fine with me. But that this mRNA vaccine would be gene therapy: there is no doctor who would take those words in the mouth. In addition, there are experimental treatments, but we are talking about a very different research phase than that in which this vaccine is located. So you can say what you want about it, but I think it is important to have rejected it for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u98	I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u99	I have a question for Mr Paternotte, because he is about to become the vaccination pope here in the Lower House. I would like an honest answer from Mr Paternotte. Does he really think of this coronapas as something we're going to protect people with? We all know that people who have been vaccinated can also be contagious. Those people can go to a cafe untested and infect tested unvaccinated. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's Does he really see it as a means of getting it all on the right track, or does he think that this is a means of getting people to that 97% as soon as possible? I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u100	Yesterday's technical briefing gave us an explanation of this. I know you had another debate in front of you, so you couldn't be there. I thought what was shown there was very clear. That was indeed not excluded from the possibility that vaccinees may develop the virus, which happens and can transfer, but that chance is much less. It is even more likely that someone who has only done an antigen test will transfer the virus than someone who has been vaccinated. That's what we heard in that briefing yesterday. That's based on scientific research. That's a big difference. We also saw a very nice picture on which you saw that unvaccinated people infect each other to a very high degree, while vaccinees hardly do that to each other. That difference is really huge. So if you put vaccinees together, then the chances of them infecting each other are very much less. That's what we're dealing with. You ask: what is the purpose of that corona pass? I read that we are now faced with a very complicated dilemma. Already seven hospitals have to say to heart and cancer patients: "We have no place for a while in the next six weeks. That should be for your health, but we can't do it now, because there are too many beds occupied by unvaccinated corona patients." How do we deal with that now? Are we going to muddle for a while and continue to keep the 1.5 meters and other restrictions, or are we going to open society safely? We also read the latter in the opinion, but then we have to use the tickets. That's the choice we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u102	The reason we have to use it is that too few people have been vaccinated. In Denmark they can lift the measures. Why can they do that? Because there are many more vaccinees there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u103	That's not an answer to my question. I asked Mr Paternotte what he himself thinks of these plans. Does he think that this is really going to help keep people healthy, or does he think that this is actually a good way to go towards vaccination urge or coercion? Mr Wilders mentioned that too. That's what I want to know. I also know that the odds are much smaller. You didn't hear me say that I didn't. But it's possible. Anyway, we're straying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u104	It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u105	Returning to the question, I would like to know what you think of this measure. Do you find this vaccination urge and then take it on sale, because then we can go up, or do you like it for another reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u106	I think it's especially good, because... I saw a theater director who said: "I'm very happy about this, because now I can fully open that theater again. People still feel safe inside. Then I can get artists to play for a full room again." That is of course what we want, namely that a pub can be a pub again and we can all watch a football game again without the crutches being set at 1.5 meters. You can do that with those corona tickets. I note that, of course, we would like to see these tickets not needed at all and we could do the same. But then the experts say: then you get very quickly that the number of hospital admissions is rising rapidly. That's what you see in England, for example. There are over 8,000 corona patients in the hospital and that is going to increase even further. That can't handle the care, so you have to say to cancer patients or heart patients: sorry, we don't have a bed for you right now. In America, you can see that in a lot of hospitals. I don't want to go through that, but I don't want to go back to lockdowns. I also do not want us to have to restrict opening hours again, make people work at home and such measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u108	Those tickets are a great alternative to that and I think that is why a best large, quiet majority of the Netherlands says that they are fine if we have to work with them for a while. It's not ideal, but fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u109	Mr Kuzu and then Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u110	In France, on the other hand, treatment is postponed because a corona vaccination requirement has been introduced for care workers, which means that people are no longer allowed to work in hospital. As a result, treatments are postponed in France, but my question was not about that, and I can only ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u111	You don't mind if I respond to it in a minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u112	I'll let you respond to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u113	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u114	If it's up to D66, children from 13 years old, young people from 13 years old, will have to show a corona pass when they go to a café, go to a restaurant or go to the museum or the theater. D66 is also strongly in favour of children receiving cultural education. Then you can have a theoretical situation that a school trip is being organised and that children, young people who say they don't want a vaccine, are not allowed on school trips. What exactly do you say to these kids? Do you consider culture education less important for children who have not been vaccinated or do not want to be tested than entering a coronapas?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u115	We're talking about teenagers, of course. When you talk to a 15-year-old and say "you're a child," he generally gets very angry. Yeah, I get that. So we're talking about teenagers. You're trying to paint a picture of children. That school trip? Well, I think there are a lot of school trips where you won't need it. If you do need it, then maybe a test will be done. Yesterday at the technical briefing we were also given child-friendly tests where you collect the saliva and you do it not in your nose but in your mouth as a kind of lollipop. I do not think that is the reason for saying that we would not be able to apply this system, which is also recommended to us by the experts. The point you are making about France. I'm not in favour of a vaccination obligation in care. We never argued in favour of that. We do say that it makes sense that you want to know if people have been vaccinated, if they come into contact with very vulnerable patients. I therefore find it much more logical that someone who has not been vaccinated is still carrying protective equipment on poli dermatology, but perhaps not in the place where cancer patients are who have medications that severely suppress their immune system and make them particularly vulnerable. That's what we think. That's why we think it makes sense for you to ask the question to people who work in health care: gee, have you been vaccinated? By the way, most people in healthcare in the Netherlands have been vaccinated, because it is also very important for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u116	Thank you. Mrs. Van Esch of the Animal Party and then Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u117	One correction: the travel restrictions have not been abolished in Denmark. Let's put it first, because they're essential. We fought for it together with D66, but let's not forget it. It is very important, even in Denmark. Those are the ones that are preserved. That was not my question, but I wanted to make that correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u118	You mean the flight bans, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u119	The travel restrictions they introduced in Denmark. I'm curious about the following. If I've read it correctly, D66 only wants to allow vaccinees in nightclubs and nightclubs. That goes even further. This brings even more division into society and excludes even more people who do not want to be vaccinated from this society. I'm curious about that. I just asked the question to the VVD. The behavioral unit of the RIVM indicates: this method does not work to increase the vaccination rate; you have other methods that you can use. If you go one step further in this division, I wonder how D66 wants to solve the problem of polarisation in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u120	I was just finished with my introduction, but I certainly want to come up with our plea in a moment to at least not rule out 2G. Maybe it's okay if I do that in a minute. Denmark is, of course, a justified point. I often mention Denmark, because my mother-in-law lives there with her girlfriend, so I come around. I could just travel there, but they did put in flight bans on long distances. They also say now: you can allow people who have been vaccinated and have a negative PCR test, because the chances of taking the virus are there, but it is very, very, very small. I think that is a sensible approach that we could adopt in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u121	Maybe it's my last interruption, but I'm sticking to it: constantly ignoring those behavioral scientists, Mrs De Vries did that just now, I find that really worrying. There's an RIVM behavior unit. There are professors who state: this side is not working. There is even a study that indicates: there are other methods and means that work better and more effectively to increase the vaccination rate. And then we say, "No, we choose another form," even though a lot of scientists say, "Don't do it." I would like an answer to that. I don't understand that logic. I just asked the VVD, but I didn't really get an answer. I wonder if D66 can give it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u122	For me, these corona tickets are a means of opening society as much as possible. We also have a responsibility for that 85% of the Dutch who have said that they should be vaccinated and have made the best choice, for themselves and for others. Fortunately, we agree with most of the people here. For them, I don't think it's fair to say that we have to keep that 1.5 meters for a very long time, that you can't go dancing, that you can't go into the pub and that you can't complete that theater. As far as I'm concerned, this corona admission ticket is a means to that end. In addition, I agree with you very much, and I also read those texts of the behavioral unit, which say that we must look very cleverly at how we can best help those who are not convinced yet, or who simply have not yet been vaccinated because of logistical problems. That's why I asked that question. Yeah, those general practitioners play an important role in that. Many people also saw that reportage from Kerkrade from that general practitioner who faces the challenge of having that conversation every day. But if that doctor then convinced someone who says, "Okay, can I get that shot?', Then the doctor must say "you must make an appointment somewhere." It often falls away again. Pharmacies have offered to help. I told them last time in Denmark they were just calling people to ask, "Oh, are you sure you don't want to get vaccinated? Do you need any help? How can we make that possible?" You can't do that for privacy reasons, so you shouldn't do that, but just pull all those registers open. I agree with you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u123	I hear Mr Paternotte worrying about the pressure on care, and that seems to me to be a very legitimate concern. At the same time, I should like to recall the fact that D66 voted against a motion by myself and Mrs Gündoğan, who says: let us help people in care by letting them wear mouth masks and protective equipment. Because also people in care are ordinary people, ordinary Dutch people who have to make their choice between whether or not to vaccinate and have all kinds of reasons to do so. How do you rhyme with that? Because if we are concerned about the pressure on care, we could not, for example, send on hospital capacity but on the containment of infections. Then, of course, Mr Paternotte says: yes, vaccinate everyone! But unfortunately, it's not that simple. Is making protective equipment available and possibly mandatory in healthcare not a very good way? Why are you voting against it? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u124	I think you are referring to the FFP2 masks and the motion on them. We are not against that in principle. If scientists or experts who advise us on this would probably not be the OMT who would say that it is necessary to do so and that those medical N95 masks are not enough, we would definitely embrace it. On this point, we were persuaded by the Minister, who said: I am not currently being advised to impose FFP2 masks. We are certainly not against it in principle, because I also read that they are even more effective than the medical N95 masks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u125	However, this is giving confidence to the same minister who, during the same debate, also advised a motion and Mrs Gündoğan who asked for masks to be kept in the house. Among other things, your party will go for that. And what do we hear? We still have to hold on to the mouth masks in the O.V. Then I find it at least nice but also somewhat naive to keep faith in that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u126	Yes, because as far as I'm concerned, mouth masks in the O.V. are not an end in themselves either. It would be nice if we could abolish it at some point. However, since I read this in the OMT opinion, I think it is perfectly logical that, in the context of protecting vulnerable people, we should continue to do so, no matter how difficult it is for all conductors who have to maintain it. I also speak to conductors who say: I am done with the fact that I have to talk to people all the time or that I have to explain that it is really not enough if you have it under your nose. But it is more that we have the idea that we do not have to define these kinds of choices, which we must base on science, for infinity every time per chamber. I'm not always opposed in principle. I really get your point when there's consensus on these FFP2 masks. There are countries that do use them. Most Western European countries don't. It's fine to put them in, but I don't know if you should do that by chamber motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u127	Mrs. Simons? No. Mr Paternotte continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u128	Yeah, this was my introduction. Mr. Chairman. Up to that 95% we face a challenge. It is actually a very thin cord, because how can we live in freedom as much as possible and prevent the hospitals from flooding? The only way to do that is with a ticket. Of course, there is an alternative, which I have just said, for example, that sectors should be completely or partially shut down and all of them should remain at home. I really don't want that kind of lockdown action back. I've developed an allergy to that, and I think that goes for all of us. That is why it is proportionate to use that ticket. It simply removes thresholds, so theaters, cinemas and restaurants can be completely full again. I do have a few more questions about the execution. What is the idea behind asking for a ticket to the terrace? After all, that's outdoors. Soon you get the situation that it doesn't have to be in the park, but on the terrace next to it you do. And what about pickup? If you're picking up from a place where you can sit, is that proof necessary? If you're gonna drink an AA in the sports canteen as a 14-year-old, do you have to show me a ticket? Is that what we want? Events worked with 100% access during the field labs, but they are now allowed to receive up to three-quarters of the capacity. Why the difference? Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the nightclubs. That point was also mentioned by Mrs Van Esch. During the day anything is allowed, but at midnight the lights go on and the party ends. The virus may come from a bat, but that doesn't mean that corona is only active at night. That happens just fine during the day. As far as D66 is concerned, we can give more space to events and nightclubs. That is also what the OMT says: it is safe to open these locations 100%, but only for people who are protected from corona, because they have been vaccinated or cured, as in Germany. According to the OMT, these visitors are twice as contagious as if they only did a quick test. In case of possible infection, the chances of getting into the hospital are extremely small. So yes, my group is in favour of this, particularly in a situation where the pressure on care is increasing again. This is many times better than the alternative, that the doors remain locked. That's why I'm asking the Cabinet, what are we gonna do if the hospitals go full again? Then what is the message to all those who are protected from corona? Then what is just to do? Finally, Mr President. Tuesday we get the balanced advice on the boosters. In Belgium, twice as many people are eligible for a third shot. Why? What's the difference? And what does this advice mean for our donation policy towards developing countries? Because we also have the task of achieving a high vaccination rate worldwide. Only when we have vaccinated enough worldwide can we be sure that speeches from the Tower are really past.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u129	Thank you. There are still a few interruptions. First, Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union and then Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u130	I can only endorse Mr Paternotte's last words. I would like to tell him that he is probably of the same opinion as I am that the cabinet can also make an effort at the WTO itself, rather than always putting up barriers in the distribution of vaccines. I think we share that. I would like to talk about the degree of vaccination in the Netherlands. I heard Mr Paternotte say to the OMT that we need a 95% vaccination rate in order to get rid of all the measures. Until then, the corona admission ticket, which we hope will be applied in the most limited form, as the cabinet now proposes, is, in its own perspective, the means of living together. I would like to ask him how real he thinks that 95% is. For how long is that his purpose? Let me explain my concerns. When we look at the National Vaccination Programme, there is always, in fact, a fixed 5% group of people who say: I am not going to have my child vaccinated. That's a regular group, whatever we think of it. We now see, with the polarization in this society, that that group is larger than the fixed group. That is why my question is: how long will the corona pass be valid if we really aim at that 95%? Or should we also look through the eye hairs? And what are we doing in the slightly lower range?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u131	Unfortunately, this is due to the fact that we do not want the hospitals to flood. Some hospitals are already unable to treat heart patients and cancer patients. I think that's very intense. The predictions we have seen indicate that there can be up to 3,400 people in intensive care and up to 22,000 people in hospital. That's because a lot of people haven't been vaccinated and the virus hasn't been through. At some point many more people have of course been through the virus and the chances that people will still be in intensive care are less. But in the meantime, we'll get about 2,000 to 3,000 more, and maybe even more. That's gonna have to be spread out. But at some point, of course, there will be a moment when enough people have been vaccinated, I hope, because that saves lives and health damage, or when enough people have been through the virus. A number of people will have become seriously ill and some will have been well. They therefore have antibodies and then the risk of overload of care is no longer there. I do not know exactly when that point has been reached. Mr Bonten says: if we have vaccinated 95%. He knows about it, so he probably will. If we're gonna stay lower, it's gonna have to be because people are going through an infection. When that's the point, we don't know. But I'm sure when that point is reached, we'll be at the front of the line saying, "Get rid of those tickets."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u132	I would also like to ask you to speak a little less and to repeat a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u133	Of course, I understand that Mr Paternotte hopes that we will achieve that 95% and together we hope that as few people as possible will have to go through that disease. We agree on that. But my concern is that we are now really pressing on the unvaccinated group, where there is also just a large group that is in doubt and where misinformation has been, by saying that you can do something with free tests for the time being. Mr Paternotte also writes in an article that does not apply to nightclubs, because otherwise we cannot continue to do so. We're only putting that group at a distance, even though they're already suspicious of the government. I wonder how D66 intends to achieve that 95% by putting pressure on this particular group. Those are not your voters or my voters, but that is a group that we will need to bring the right information. How do you intend to achieve it by proposing this kind of thing? I would like to ask him: consider whether we should look at measures that are more conducive to unity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u134	I think it's very important that we go to those people. You're talking about your constituents and my constituents. I see that Amsterdam and Rotterdam are two cities that are in the top 10 places where the least vaccine has been given. I lived in Amsterdam for a long time. Eight other municipalities where the less vaccinated are municipalities where the Christian Union is quite large, I think. So I think we really do have a job to do. I believe that the general practitioners and pharmacists can play a role in this. I think there are many more things that can come from science. I believe that all ideas for this are also welcome. I think there is now a situation in which virtually everyone has had the chance. We also have a responsibility to all Dutch people who have been vaccinated. I find it rather difficult to explain to people: "In fact, you should be able to go back on the dance floor all night. That could indeed be safe. But we're not gonna do it anyway, and we're gonna keep this place completely closed. We prefer to retain those support packages, because we are not prepared to take the step to allow only people who are protected from corona." I find that very difficult, too. I don't think that's good in society either. That's the pragmatism I've seen in many German cities. Preferably, I don't want tickets. And if there's no other way, then we're for tickets so you can get in with tests. But if that really is not possible, then we are indeed open to tightening access with 2G tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u135	Then we'll make another assessment. What freedoms do we give priority to weighing at that time? For me, that is the freedom to make a choice with regard to vaccination that you do not insist on. That is what I really hear in Mr Paternotte's words, even when I look back at the previous debate, which stated that tests should still be paid for. In doing so, we are pushing those groups that are now having doubts or are at a distance from vaccination towards vaccination. But the reaction is right: go away; don't come near me with your information. I think that is harmful and I regret that. So I will continue to take care of that unit, because I think that in the longer term it will really reduce the number of sick people; that is what we are going to do together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u136	Mr Paternotte started his story with a look back to a year and a half ago. There is one group in our society that has been deeply disappointed in politics, in this House of Representatives and in the Cabinet for a year and a half. They're our caregivers. They have received applause from society as a whole, including politicians. We've all collapsed, and they haven't heard from us since. The SP thinks that's a big embarrassment. We expect a great deal of our concern, namely that they are going to take the hits again, that they will again receive the patients who are still arriving in hospitals and elsewhere. The SP believes that we cannot let it happen that by the end of the year we do not take steps to increase salaries in healthcare. Now, together with the Christian Union, we have made a proposal to settle this year's salary increase. We are thinking of EUR 600 million, to be paid out of a very limited increase in the tax on profits. I would like to ask Mr Paternotte whether that is a proposal that could embrace D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u137	Of course, we're going to look at that proposal anyway. We consider care pay to be a very important issue. You have also been able to see this in the pass-through of our election programme. We even wanted to go a little further than the plan of the SP and the Christian Union that is on the table today. The reason we think that's so important is exactly what you're saying. For the past year and a half I have seen how hard work has been done and how high the workload has been. I saw that vacation after vacation couldn't go on again, because there were still too many people in the hospitals. That affects the debate we are having here, about the corona policy and how we do it responsibly. I'm hearing too many parties who don't want to. And indeed it also affects salaries; you are absolutely right about that. I'm gonna take a look at your proposal. I believe that the cabinet has promised to come back to that next week. Next week is Princess' Day; then comes the briefcase with all the documents and the budget to show what the plan is. I think it would be a good idea to wait for that, because that will be the debate that can be held next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u138	If D66 wants to continue raising salaries in health care, you have an ally in us. That's no problem at all. If that's the objection, we'll figure it out. Of course, it is mainly about how we are going to pay for this and what assignment we can now give to the cabinet to arrange this with Princess Day or immediately afterwards. We are thinking of an increase in the tax on profits. I would once again ask Mr Paternotte whether he thinks that is a good way to start at least. I agree with you that it is only a start with the increase in salaries in care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u139	Of course, I'm standing here at the corona debate. My colleague Paulusma is working on this. By the way, she was a nurse herself, so she also knows very well what you're talking about. I think she was also at the petition at the Hofvijver yesterday. Next week is the debate on the General Political Reviews. This is also about the budget and how we distribute all the money in the Netherlands. The cabinet has promised to come back to it. We also want to keep that promise to the cabinet, because I believe that we share some of the same commitment. I think you're about to put forward your specific proposal. I'm just gonna take a good look at that. I'm going to share that with my group. But I share with you the importance that we do for the caregivers. Of course, there is something else here today that is very important for those caregivers. I heard that from all of them. They said, "Don't let us be in the situation again, that the hospitals are flooded with corona patients and the workload is so incredibly high again."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u140	Mr Paternotte does not answer the question, so I think it is a shame to burn all my interruptions. I am asking a very specific question, and I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u141	I think I've already answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u142	Mr Paternotte, of course, is talking about his own answer, and I think he has answered it. But I would like to look at Mr Paternotte to see if he has anything else to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u143	I believe that I have tried to respond by explaining why we consider this issue important, when we look at it and what we expect from the cabinet. I think that's what we should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u144	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Then I give the floor to Mr... No, Mr. Wilders first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u145	I would like to ask Mr Paternotte of D66 when it gets to his head, to his skull, that the corona crisis is over. Corona will never be over; I think we both agree on that. But the crisis is over. We've had 200 men in intensive care for weeks with corona. That's 200 too many, but it's constant. There aren't 1,000 or 1300; there are 200 men on the ICU. 95% of people have antibodies. In the vulnerable groups and in people between 60 and 75, that is even 98% of the people. I expected you to stand here as a liberal and say, "Guys, of course, if things were to go wrong again in the future, we should see what should happen. But now there are 200 men on the ICU. That number hasn't increased in weeks. Almost everyone in the Netherlands has antibodies. We're gonna have to cut it down. We need to get away from these measures. We must give the Netherlands freedom back." But what are you doing? You will be applauding if the Minister of Health does not respect the unvaccinated, but gives them a sweep and actually blames them for this measure. And you're going to introduce a new measure, these stupid corona passes. When will it be enough for you as a liberal? When do you say I'm gonna cut those restrictions on people so they don't even get into a pub or a restaurant if they don't want to? When do you say, "I don't do that. I'm a liberal. I'm a D66 man. I'm gonna make sure we get our freedom back with these figures and not create a dichotomy"? Why isn't that your story? You're from D66, aren't you, the Communists, or do I know what?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u146	Mr Wilders totally denies reality. There are already seven hospitals that have to tell people that they have to delay heart surgery for a long time, much longer than wise. The same applies to treatments for cancer and kidney transplants. That could be Henk and Ingrid. The scientists who advise us on this are saying: if, as Mr Wilders would like, we throw it all loose, because those 200 are there after a period in the summer holidays with good weather, in which the schools were not open for the most part, in which people had the advice to work at home and call it all but on............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then you have to tell people, there's no room for you in the hospital anymore. We don't want that. If you're being honest, you'll also tell the voters that I'll go for it. For I hear no alternative from you, other than to contradict the advice of all the scientists and say: I will open everything up. You know that this is not going to happen, because the majority of this House will not make that choice, but you will have to take responsibility for being honest with your constituents about what that means. That means you're totally ignoring science.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u147	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u148	This is not the beginning of an answer to my question. I say...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u149	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u150	Is it my turn, or is it your turn?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u151	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u152	I say: open up the Netherlands again; there is no need and stop scaring me. Stop scaring people. D66 is the party that only wants to impose measures on measures and take away freedom. You're just a fake pliberal. You're a fake pliberal. You pretend to be in favour of people's freedom. And while you're at it, what is it? 80% to 85% of the Dutch people have been vaccinated, 200 people with corona are lying on the ice, 95% of the Dutch people have antibodies and 98% of the 60-plussers have antibodies, you say: if you choose not to be vaccinated and if you don't want a test stick in your nose three times a week, you can't go to the pub, you can't go to the theatre anymore, you can't do all that, and the Netherlands will lock up for you; then the Netherlands will close for you and we'll keep you away. For nightclubs you even want the so-called 2G approach, which the Germans also have: you only enter if you have been vaccinated or had corona, so not even with a test anymore. So you're just restricting freedoms. That's not liberal, is it? You're a fake pliberal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u153	Mr Wilders totally denies reality; I say it again. Because we have appointed a group of people who have studied for it, who have decades of experience with it and who advise us on what is possible. Here we have a Member of Parliament who says: I have been a Member of Parliament for 23 years and I know more about it than all the virologists and epidemiologists; you can completely open up without the hospitals flooding. And that's when we see that happening in America and that it's getting really bad in England right now. Mr Wilders is not honest about this to his own constituency. He has no alternative. He just wants to say that everything is open. I don't think that's fair to the people he represents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u154	Finally. You know, it's always something like that, isn't it? This way you can always come up with something to take away people's freedom. I am well aware that the cabinet, the Prime Minister, Minister De Jonge said: no, the most important criterion for us is ic capacity; how many people with corona are on the ice is the most important thing for us and we must avoid code black for ic capacity. For months now, at least for weeks, there have been no more than 200 people on the ICI. Most people have been vaccinated. Most people, almost 100%, have antibodies. And what do you say as a liberal? "We agreed on that once, but I've found something else. There are people who say that in the future maybe the flu comes and that maybe that's why people come to the hospital. You know what? We're going to keep people out of the restaurants and we're going to kick people out of the theater, because if you don't want to be tested and if you're not vaccinated, you won't get in from D66." I repeat, you are the biggest fake pliberal in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u155	That all sounds very nice, but all I'm saying is that I'd rather listen to what Marc Van Ranst, Christian Drosten, Jaap van Dissel, Marc Bonten and Marion Koopmans say about this than to what Geert Wilders just said about antibodies, I don't think it's about antibodies in the whole population, because we don't measure them; it's about blood donors, about immunity and the statement that there are no more risks. Because you're really not the expert here on the basis of 23 years of parliamentary membership.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u156	Mrs Van der Plas of BBB also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u157	I am actually pleased that Mr Paternotte is so keen on people from practice who have learned and who know it all. I would therefore like to ask him whether he would also like to convey that message to Mr Tjeerd de Groot, because there are a lot of people in agriculture, including scientists and farmers from practice, who know very well how it works, but despite that D66 continues to insist on reducing livestock. That may be a little off topic, but I will take advantage of the opportunity, otherwise it will become a little selective, in the sense of: here we believe in the practitioners and scientists and suddenly not there again. So I assume that D66 is now also going to base itself on the practice in agriculture, and that the halving of the livestock is hereby removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u158	Thank you. I would like to give Mr Paternotte the opportunity to respond very briefly to this, because this is outside the scope of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u159	I know that my colleague Tjeerd de Groot appreciates that he is also occasionally cited in this kind of debate, so thank you for that. I think that we can simply look together at the effect of reducing livestock on zoonoses, because, as far as I know, this could have a positive effect on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u160	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u161	I would ask the Minister not to make me laugh. Madam President. For nine months, this cabinet has been decommissioned, and thus without any mandate from the electorate. And yet far-reaching decisions are made, as if one were missionary. That's totally unacceptable. I even call that abuse of power. The corona crisis is over, there haven't been more than 200 people on the ICUs for a long time. And the only thing the cabinet should do is to abolish all measures, as other countries such as Denmark and England have done. But what do Rutte and De Jonge do? They're going to introduce a new, far-reaching measure. It's beyond comprehension. They decide to introduce corona tickets, fit with those QR codes in restaurants, pubs, cinemas, so people who have not been vaccinated and do not want to be tested every time, no longer have access to a large part of public life. It's unbelievable. Let me be clear: the PVV is not against vaccination. On the contrary, I've had myself vaccinated, too. But people who, for whatever reason, choose not to want to be vaccinated deserve as much respect as people who do. And it's shocking that the cabinet doesn't have that respect, that we're going to create a division between vaccinees and non-vaccines. It just can't be, and certainly a outgoing cabinet can't do that. Stop it! In my opinion, what you are doing is even illegal in your missionary status. But not only that, it's also unnecessary, pointless and false. It is unnecessary, because I told you the crisis is over, 95% of adults have antibodies and even 98% of risk groups between 60 and 75, so almost everyone has immunity. It is pointless, because people who have been vaccinated can also have and spread the coronavirus. So QR codes are bogus security, because you can also get the virus from someone who's been pricked and standing next to you in the pub, or sitting a table down in the restaurant. So it doesn't guarantee you won't get infected. So don't fool people. And it's fake, too. It is false, because the real reason is that the cabinet is trying to increase the number of vaccinees in this devious way. That just makes it pure vaccination urge. That's what you do: vaccination urge. And therefore also indirect coercion. And 81% of the non-vaccines, according to research, feel all this vaccination pressure right now. Because you only get a QR code if you've had or have had corona, if you've been punctured or tested. And that does indeed mean that, if you do not want to have a test every time you want to go to a restaurant, cafe or cinema, you still have to get stuck. It's called, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of Health, "an urge," 100% "an urge," and that's 100% unacceptable. That is something that has been adopted by Parliament, by me and by Mr Kuzu. About this, that you can't do this. And this outgoing cabinet chairman, much crazier it should not be that a measure that goes so far should not even take, because that is simply illegal, dismisses a legal motion from the Chamber that says not to do so. The Netherlands is not far from a banana republic. It's fake, too. It's fake to the catering industry in the Netherlands. They're right to be pathetic. They need to start checking QR codes as some kind of police officer, which is totally unnecessary, and they're already running out of staff. 'Cause the catering sector is going through a hell of a lot. They are the hardest hit by all business sectors. They had a 40% turnover drop last year. Now they're gonna get this for their own good. It can't be described with a pen. Greetings, homage to all those entrepreneurs in the catering industry and elsewhere who are not going to check their guests and pay no attention to the illegal rules of Rutte and De Jonge. But I hope, of course, that the cabinet plan will not get a majority today. I will therefore table a motion in the second term not to introduce the corona pass. I hope it gets a majority. Mr. Chairman. I urge the cabinet to give the Netherlands its freedom back. No more restrictions on freedom! From pubs to restaurants, from events to cinemas: let it go. Get your hands off it. No restrictions, no division, no corona passes and no registration of vaccination status either. Don't! We need to get back to the old normal. Mr President, I will conclude. Instead of coming up with new measures, you, Mr. Rutte, and you, Mr. De Jonge, should have invested much more in care. Instead, you have closed down hospitals and ic-units in recent years, while the Netherlands needs more hospitals, ic-units and nurses in case of another crisis. That's where you need to focus. Make sure we're prepared for the next crisis, if it comes, by getting more hospitals and ICU units instead of less. That's when you make sense. Leave the people alone with your scary, illegal rules. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u162	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u163	Let me compliment Mr Wilders on taking a picture of this at the time when he was vaccinated and showing that he made that choice. Very good. We can see that in some places in the Netherlands it is left behind. The Zuyderland hospital, for example, indicates that they really have a tax problem and that they already have to postpone a lot of care. We see that the vaccination rate remains in a few places: in the bibles and in the big cities, but also in Kerkrade, Roermond and Venlo; Geert Wilders country. My question is: do you have any ideas to convince people there to take the vaccine after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u164	No, it's not my job to convince people to take a vaccine. I have told you what my personal conviction is. I haven't been too bad to show you that either. But people have to make their own decisions. People have to make their own decisions wherever they go. And if they want to do that, that's fine. But if they don't want to do that, it's fine. What I cannot stand is that you, Minister De Jonge, the Prime Minister and everyone in the Chamber have said in recent years: we respect it if you decide not to be vaccinated. I think you have also said in the past: I respect it if you decide not to. Now it's all at once: how can we convince people to do it? How can we punish them by not letting them in the restaurants if they don't get vaccinated and don't want to get a stick in their nose three times a week to get tested? It's just a ban to go out to dinner and go to the theater. That's alien. That's fake. That's mean. It is particularly contrary to what you said earlier: that we must respect the decisions of those who say for whatever reason that they will not be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u165	That's too bad for the people at Zuyderland hospital. They would, of course, have liked to have heard from you an idea of how you are going to help them to ensure that their work is still possible in the coming time. You will also see that the hospitals in Denmark are almost empty, that very few corona patients are there and that much more has been vaccinated there. Perhaps then you can at least help a little by answering the question why you chose to take the shot yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u166	I believe a vaccine can help against hospitalization and severe disease caused by corona. That's as ready as a whistle. I believe that. But I also respect people who for whatever reason say "I don't believe in it" or "I have another reason I don't want to do it." Those people do not have to explain mine either, I say to Mr Paternotte. They don't have to answer to me. We live in a free country, Mr. Paternotte. Once upon a time, your party, D66, stood for something democratic and something liberal, and it was about freedom. Freedom also means that you must have the right not to be vaccinated without explaining or having to justify yourself. You punish those people by saying that you have to get tested three or four times a week... those tests are valid for 24 hours, I believe... if you have a bit of a social life. Then you force people into the prick state that's urge and coercion or forbid you people to be part of social life. That's alien. That's totalitarian. That's half communist. You should never do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u167	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I shall then give the floor to Mrs van den Berg and then to Mr Hijink. Then I would like to suspend for half an hour, also because there is a need for a short lunch. I got some signals about that. So after Mr Hijink we suspend for half an hour. Mrs. Van den Berg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA welcomes the abolition of the 1.5 metres. This is another step to get out of the corona pandemic. The end is in sight, but we're not there yet. Our solidarity is being called for. That also leads to tensions. Solidarity also means: a personal apple. Solidarity between people is the starting point for the CDA. The CDA therefore supports that the government wants to protect the 700,000 people who are unable to do so, for example because they are immune to the vaccine. But "vulnerable" must not be interpreted too unilaterally. Solidarity must be at different levels. For the CDA, it means not only sharing financial risks, but also taking responsibility for what you do, not only for yourself, but also for others. It is not just about solidarity with physically vulnerable people, but also with young people, who have been very limited in their social activities for a year and a half and suffer mentally. And what about solidarity with entrepreneurs in the cultural and event sectors, who are desperate and awake to financial concerns? It is also a question of solidarity with people for whom regular care is being postponed every time because acute care is taking place again. Some have been waiting for a new hip for over a year. That's also a loss of health years. And what about the solidarity of those who have not been vaccinated with the caregivers who have been working in front of the snot for a year and a half? Because of the people who come through corona on the ic, more than 95% have not been vaccinated. Mr. Chairman. The CDA is opposed to vaccination, but 16 million people cannot be asked to show solidarity and accept restrictions because 1.8 million people will not be vaccinated. You don't just vaccinate to protect yourself. It's also your contribution to protecting your fellow human being and helping to relieve the burden of care. Many people still have very understandable questions about this or are anxious about it. It is very important that everything is done to further increase the vaccination rate among groups where it is now low: migrants, those who have language problems and those who are low-literate. What specific actions will the Minister take in this regard? Mr. Chairman. The corona pass must be temporary. The Minister now wants to work with the corona admission ticket in the hospitality, sports, cultural stages and events. These alone are 80,000 catering companies which need to take additional measures to meet this situation; companies which are already suffering from a shortage of staff and which have had a very difficult time. We would like to know from the Minister why the corona ticket should also be applied to outdoor terraces. As a temporary and as short a measure as possible, the CDA can accept the corona admission ticket. The Minister states that the number of ic intakes below 25 should be on average and the vaccination rate above 90% in order to be able to stop. When's that? Earlier we talked about the date of 1 November, but now there is a weighing moment on 5 November. That's too late, isn't it? Can we enter the December month without a ticket? Quite rightly, there is now no demand for an own contribution for a test certificate. As a CDA, we have previously advocated mobile access testing sites to which young people also have easy access. It is also important that a paper vaccination certificate is accepted everywhere, especially because older people often have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u169	There's been an interruption by Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u170	These mobile testing sites are not yet in place, which brings with them a threshold for testing for many people. That's what my question is about. Mr Van den Berg of the CDA just had a story about solidarity with each other, with people with weaker health, with young people and with catering entrepreneurs. On the other hand, we need to focus more on vaccination of the group of people who are less powerful in the language. I couldn't agree more. In the light of these principles, the question is whether the corona tickets proposed by the Cabinet are the way to achieve the goals mentioned by the CDA here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u171	I think we should look separately at how we can reach the groups under which vaccination rates are still low. We'd like to hear from the Minister what he's going to do very specifically. Now we say: the great good is that we can let go of the 1.5 meters. We're gonna have to do that gradually. We need to create some sort of safety net for that, just so we don't overload care. We believe that this is acceptable temporarily and in a transitional phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u172	Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u173	The release of the 1.5 meters is also a choice. You can make another choice. I would like to ask Mr Van den Berg of the CDA if she agrees with us that the reason for asking for such a corona pass in many places is that it is very much encouraging people to go for vaccination. This is particularly true when testing sites are not exactly around the corner and a lot of people have to drive a long way. I live in Nijmegen, a big city. Even I have to ride my bike for half an hour before I get to the nearest test site. So the testing isn't very easy. Does Mr Van den Berg agree with us that this looks very much like an urge to convince as many people as possible, especially young people, that they should be vaccinated? Isn't that the conversation we should be having here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u174	We would find the urge if we went to a situation of 2G, which Mr. Paternotte describes. In fact, there is no alternative. We are certainly not in favour of this at the moment. The other side is that in July we argued earlier for mobile testing sites to make testing easier. I also hear young people saying, you know, it's actually a lot easier for me to get that shot. They therefore have no objection in principle to this, but have not yet gotten to it. The side effect of the corona pass may be that they say: then I choose the vaccination. The end is, of course, that if we do not opt for vaccination, it may take longer before we have built up sufficient resistance in society. So then many more people have to get sick before we can take next steps. We would regret that. So we say, on the one hand, do these corona tickets as a tool to make sure that everyone can participate in a much better way than in the last year and a half, and as Minister on the other, continue to be hard on reaching all the groups to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u175	Something just triggered me in the answer to Mrs Westerveld. I heard Mrs van den Berg say that we are not yet in favour of this 2G approach. But is that gonna happen? Is the CDA going to be in favour of that at some point? And when will that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u176	No, as far as we're concerned, there's no 2G approach. We have said every time, and I think we have supported motions on this, that we do not want an urge. 2G, so that you have no alternative, we would see as an urge. But we also hear that we are talking about this now. Soon there will be a lot of people saying: yes, but we really want only the 2G to be there. Then perhaps we will have a completely different debate, with very different facts. I cannot see what that will be like in January or February next year. But the CDA has been the starting point for a year and a half: no urge. No freedom of choice would mean that there would be an urge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u177	Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u178	You may disagree, but what's about to happen to that coronapas is also an urge for the SGP. Let me be very clear about that. My final question to the CDA is about the fact that it is now "temporary." How long is this "temporary"? Are we talking about two weeks, four weeks, one year, one and a half years, infinitely? Where does this stop? Where does that urge stop? Where does the corona pass stop? When's it gonna be over?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u179	I just asked the Minister the same question. It was initially stated that on 1 November we might be able to get rid of all the measures. Now there's a new weighing moment on November 5th. That means you're not gonna make it to November 1st. Hence my question: can we enter the December month without a ticket? I would very much like an answer from the Minister. Again, it's a temporary emergency aid for us, but it's not something we're really excited about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u180	You will continue your speech. Mr. Stoffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u181	That's not an answer to my question. When's it gonna end? Am I hearing correctly that December is the outer moment for the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u182	I believe that this also depends very much on developments in healthcare. If care becomes completely overloaded, you will still have to live with certain measures. I heard Mr Stoffer say in another interruption: we might rather have the one-and-a-half meters than the corona ticket. Well, that's the choice. But as long as we do not have enough people in the Netherlands who are protected, there is the threat that care will become overloaded. We can't accept that, so we're all gonna have to figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u183	Mrs Van den Berg, you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u184	The nighthoreca holds additional restrictions. But many young people need to go out. Can this not be allowed with additional requirements, such as a negative test which is only eight hours old? Is the Minister prepared to investigate this? And on the basis of which indoor events can only have 75% occupancy? Because 100% or 75% is the difference between turning a profit or not. And what financial support is there when available for sectors that are far from being on top of it or are still subject to restrictions, such as the cultural sector, organised travel and nightlife? Finally, Mr President. Work not only provides income, but also meaning and social contacts. People just need to get to work. However, employers must ensure a safe working environment for all employees, including those physically vulnerable, on the basis of the Arbowet. What is the Minister going to do when to ensure that employers in health care, but also outside, have adequate information to set up a safe working environment? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u185	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP. Then we'll suspend for half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SP has always said: vaccinations must be the way out of the corona crisis. The Dutch people, as has to be said, show themselves on their best side here. 85% of all adults have had a first shot. Fortunately, because these people protect themselves from hospitalization and society from new lockdowns and overload of care. And precisely because so many Dutch people have already volunteered to be vaccinated, we see great risks in the tickets that the cabinet is about to introduce, including in the catering industry. The whole system of testing for access has not exactly been a great success in recent months. The commercial system was as leaky as a basket and fraud-prone. What assurance does the cabinet have that the tickets will now help? And is this testing to bully, or is it really the Minister's concern to protect public health? Because it is not the case that vaccinated people can pass on the virus, and that tickets for people with vulnerable health do not guarantee that they can have a virus-free evening in a café or restaurant. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Health does not hide the fact that the purpose, a co-purpose, of tickets is also to increase the vaccination rate. Let me point out that the SP also hopes that as many people as possible will be vaccinated. But if this is the real aim of the proposal they are making, then it is questionable whether a ticket is a legitimate means of increasing the vaccination rate. Is it necessary, for example, and is it effective? For example, we heard from Van Dissel yesterday that even if you work with tickets, it remains a risk setting. For example, it was the nighthoreca. Is the measure proportionate? Are there any better alternatives? And above all, wouldn't it be much wiser not to increase the differences between people further, but to work on your powers of persuasion as a cabinet? Take away the doubts about the vaccine. Put refusers and doubters not away as conspiracy thinkers, but research where doubt comes from and how to take care away. Why don't you go into the neighborhoods where the vaccination rate is still low? Go to the people instead of alienating people from you. Get GPs and the GGD to talk to people. Show people what the risks are if you don't let them vaccinate you when the virus goes around. We think that way there will be more movement than with a coronapas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u187	There is an interruption by Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u188	I know the SP as a party that has faith in science. The scientists are actually making quite clear what choice we have now. So what we could do now is not change anything, just for a little bit longer, that capacity limitation for theatres, cinemas, restaurants, etc. all just go on for a while. It's possible. Is that what the SP wants? And if not, do you have an alternative to the coronapas, which means that we can at least continue in a way that does not overload the hospitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u189	If Mr Paternotte says "you should actually follow science," he should follow the advice of the OMT and should not actually open the nighthoreca yet. Because the OMT also says that even with tickets the nighthoreca, dancing in a locked room, is actually not wise, even with a ticket. So we would say: that 1.5 meters, you could make an opinion of that, as we have other advice, no shaking hands, etc. You could do that. You could indeed choose the following, as the OMT says: wait a few weeks before opening the nighthoreca. And then we don't really see too many objections, as we are now doing in the hospitality industry. You can just go in there now, you can get a place at the table and you can eat there. And also the catering industry itself actually states: for us this does not feel like a relaxation, but rather as a stricter policy. So we'd follow that line sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u190	Mr Paternotte, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u191	But this is an honest story. Then the SP says: we want to keep that 1.5 meters, we want only a third of the people, without tickets, a cinema, theatre, etc. to enter, and we want to continue. That's clear. Except for the nighthoreca. You say we shouldn't open the nighthoreca yet. Well, the cabinet also proposes not to open the nighthoreca, so in that sense I don't quite understand what your criticism of the cabinet is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u192	We say, let go five feet, that's possible. And we also think it wise to make it an opinion. We are not in favour of tickets. Why not? Because it's also gonna give us some form of false safety. I would remind Mr Paternotte of the situation we had this summer, when we got a peak from here to Tokyo with tickets, because the system was as leaky as a basket. So what guarantee do we have that if you did, it would work? That is still separate from the discussion that has been going on for two hours, about exactly what contrast in society you want to knock on your door. We don't like that. Nor do we see the fact that a billion euros will soon be spent on commercial testing and commercial companies that are going to make a lot of money out of it. We prefer to spend that money on public health. I see Mr Paternotte has stopped listening. Let's go into the neighborhood and convince people of vaccination so that we can further increase that vaccination rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u193	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u194	Mr. Chairman. The SP finds it rather harsh that hundreds of millions are being released for an expensive system with QR codes and enforcers, while that money could also have been spent on care. Diederik Gommers has recently calculated in the newspaper the state of the ic-capacity in our country. In 2019 there were staff available for 950 ic-beds and now there are only 925. So one and a half years after the care has taken so many blows, the capacity is ultimately lower than before the outbreak of the corona crisis. That's incredible, isn't it? For next year, a shortage of 80,000 employees in healthcare is expected, especially in care for the elderly and home care. The absenteeism in care is high and has only increased over the past year. How many more alarm bells have to go off before we wake up here and see that it doesn't go on like this? Where are these investments in care to maintain care in our country? Specialists say we need 100 to 200 extra places in intensive care for a long time. Is the cabinet finally prepared to make money available for this and to train enough people to be able to humanize it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u195	There is an interruption by Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u196	I am concerned about the previous point, because I understand Mr Paternotte perfectly. Now, do I understand why you're suggesting that you want to get off the five feet, but you don't want a corona pass? In my opinion, in the past, you have indicated that you always wanted to follow the OMT recommendations. I seem to recall that you voted in favour of a motion which asked the cabinet to do so just before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u197	We do not always follow any OMT advice as a kind of automatic robot. Nor do we automatically follow every proposal made by the cabinet here. We do not believe that the tickets as proposed today, including as a means of pressure to get people to the vaccination street, are a good idea. It also costs an awful lot of money. These are very large amounts of money. We want to spend that money to convince the group that is still in doubt or has not yet decided. We want to convince those people, because the goal is the same. We also want this vaccination rate to go up. We just don't think this is the right way to go about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u198	But you've already said that four times. That wasn't my question. I think it's about saying, "I just want to let go of that five feet." Then you also accept that in the end this may lead to a lack of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u199	I don't think so. You have to look across the board at what measures you can relax. That's what the OMT says: don't do it all at once, but in steps. We think that is a very sensible line. You can keep that 1.5 meters as an urgent advice, or whatever you want to call it. We think that is excellent. We think it's a form of false security. That's what was exchanged in the briefing yesterday. Also with tickets the hospitality or nighthoreca remains a risky setting. That's literally what I'm saying. Then you can introduce a very expensive system for a billion euros, but it doesn't add anything to people's safety. I shouldn't say that like that. It adds too little to people's safety. Mr. Chairman. I have just spoken with Mr Paternotte about salaries. Caregivers warn of a healthcare infarction, the complete freeze of care now that the outage is so high. The number of corona patients is no longer decreasing and too few new colleagues have joined. Yesterday, the SP, together with trade unions and caregivers, took action against the Prime Minister's Tower. Diederik Gommers was also there. He was right to say that it is very easy for the cabinet to assume that the care, as a safety net of the corona policy, should be taken care of again. A lot of carers feel that way abused by this cabinet. "They know that we don't abandon our patients anyway, so they don't have to raise our salaries and don't have to invest them." That's how they drive there. That may sound cynical, but that is the feeling that a lot of carers have. Mr. Chairman. Because this cabinet doesn't work, we as the House of Representatives should do it ourselves. The SP therefore proposes today, together with the Christian Union, to make a first start on catching up with the large pay gap in care. We ask the Cabinet to invest EUR 600 million extra in the salaries in healthcare and to pay this by raising the tax on profits for the largest companies a little bit. We hope for support, not only from the fellow parties in this Chamber, but also, of course, from the cabinet itself. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u200	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. As announced, I'm suspending the meeting for a short lunch break until 2:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u201	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. We are working on the first term of office and I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u202	Mr. Chairman. Only together can we control Corona. With this credo, this outgoing cabinet has been calling on us to stick together to the corona measures: to keep our distance from each other, to work as much as possible at home and to have us vaccinated. But there is little left of the feeling of being together. Coherence has turned into discontent and distrust. The corona crisis has also become a crisis of confidence, and that is what I am really charging this cabinet, a outgoing cabinet that rules on an arbitrary basis, that leaks its own plans prematurely and that keeps its own promises again and again. Why should you still follow rules as a resident or entrepreneur if the government itself is the biggest game breaker? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants to make the corona pass mandatory from next week on. We in the Labour Party are not against a coronapas in principle. That is not why we voted against the bill. That was because of the scope and implementation. Such a coronapas requires a lot from the visitor, but certainly also from the entrepreneur who has to maintain it. How much credit does this cabinet have with the club owner, the restaurant owner or the manager of a local pub? All hard-working entrepreneurs who had hoped for relaxation, but who now feel that many of the measures are increasing while they are already in debt, have a shortage of staff and are still bound by measures. My first question to the cabinet is: what exactly does such a coronapas look like? What if I go to a bar? Do I have to show my coronapas at the door or if I sit down? Is that just based on a scan, like I've been through in Latvia, or do you still have to show me your ID? In short, just take us in that perspective. Why did the cabinet choose not only to enter inside, but also outside the coronapas, where there is air and ventilation? I don't understand that choice. I would therefore also like to argue in favour of at least getting that part out of it. How do we deal with the sports canteens, the volunteer clubs? Do we ask of them the same regime? Doesn't it make sense to argue for an exception to that? Mr. Chairman. We are all prepared to take action together, but then it must be logical, followable and feasible. How feasible are plans if not only catering owners, but even mayors of large cities say: we are not going to maintain, because it is not feasible? I'd like a reaction from the cabinet on why it thinks this plan can work. They're just very essential questions. They are not so much principled as just real and factual. Mr. Chairman. After the vaccination rate increased this summer in high-speed trains, this increase has now come to a halt. The question is how to reach the last groups, whether or not you're for a coronapas. There are very large groups that are never affected by such a corona pass, such as migrant workers and people in vulnerable neighbourhoods. Those aren't the people sitting on the terraces. Communication, customisation, door-to-door, with volunteers, with general practitioners and with pharmacies is essential to increase vaccination rates there too. That's where vulnerable people are. I also hope that is my question, Mr President, that the cabinet recognizes that. Such a coronapas will never touch these people, whether you call it urge or not, so you really will have to deal with these groups in a different way. Proper information must be provided to ensure that these people are also reached, because there is simply disinformation or misinformation. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw attention to the people who cannot be vaccinated and those who cannot be tested, on the basis of medical advice or history. If people are going to have to show a QR code, what are we going to do for these groups? What are we gonna do for the elderly? They say: I don't have a smartphone and it's pretty complicated to get a QR code. How are we going to make available a QR code, a pass or a yellow booklet there is the weather record for these people, to arrange that they also have access? It seems arbitrary, but a lot of elderly people don't think it's that complicated at all. But they do want to be helped in that, without having to buy a smartphone for that. Finally, the Lollipop tests. We were able to experience them yesterday. For example, there are perhaps more innovative ideas that allow testing to be more accessible and easier, and actually on every street corner. "Corona can only be controlled together" asks for a cabinet with a plan, a cabinet that has an eye for all groups in society, and that is honest and open. Only then can the cabinet regain the trust of society as a whole. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u204	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am completely tired of the fact that the press is consistently informed rather than the cabinet. We could also read in the media last weekend, after the Catshuis consultation, what the plans are, while we as a Chamber were not sent the documents until Tuesday night after noon. This not only undermines a good discussion in the Lower House, but also prevents a good discussion about the plans. That really bothers me. This whole discussion about how to open up society deserves a fundamental debate in which we can weigh up medical advice, in which we can weigh up ethical advice. This deserves a debate on usefulness and necessity and proportionality. That doesn't deserve to be discussed on Twitter or with one-liners. And we get that this way, because the cabinet communicates this way. I would like to ask the outgoing Prime Minister what he himself thinks is that a few months after it was promised that a new administrative culture would be created, there will be a consistent leak from the cabinet. I would like to say that it is time to turn it around. First of all, these documents must come to the Chamber and have that fundamental debate here, and then the press conference. Mr. Chairman. France came before us. Last summer they chose the large-scale use of corona tickets. But about why President Macron made no mistake. With tickets he wants to work towards a vaccination rate of 100%. While our cabinet calls it a side effect, the French government openly shares its intentions, as it should be in a democracy. Mr. Chairman. I am also tired of the fact that the cabinet is not fair and transparent about the use of corona tickets. For in the last 24 hours I have spoken with a lot of virologists and doctor-microbiologists. And I can assure you that none of these experts claim that a corona pass on a terrace has added value in the containment of the virus. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Cabinet whether it recognises that the broad use of corona tickets should in particular also increase the vaccination rate. And yes, I am also fed up with the fact that a small group of people who are consciously not being vaccinated and who are also deliberately spreading disinformation keep society in the grip, and that we, that society cannot continue with that. This also puts vulnerable people at risk, people who cannot be vaccinated and people who have vulnerable health. But let us simply mention that dilemma with each other, because then the Chamber can have a fair debate on it. Mr. Chairman. The OMT believes that the coming period is a very exciting one. After all, the opinion of the OMT may lead to a significant recovery of the virus. That's what the team says. That is why they say: go through every relaxation step-by-step. We can then see that the outgoing cabinet is taking the advice in the wind. There will be relaxation, but it will be faster and more relaxed than the OMT recommends. I ask the cabinet whether we are not running the risk that we will have to tighten up again later because the care is not up to it. Mr. Chairman. The OMT also makes it clear that the chosen design of the tickets is the least secure of the options outlined by the team. A certificate of entry based on either a negative test result or evidence based on vaccination status alone is preferable. Because vaccinees can still pose a health risk, because they can still transmit the virus. I would like to ask the cabinet why it does not choose to ask for a negative test certificate in risky places of everyone, including vaccinees. I would also like to ask the cabinet how to deal with people who cannot be vaccinated or tested, or who simply have problems because the systems are not working. Mr. Chairman. This debate should be about the fundamental question: how do we deal with the individual freedom of people who do not want to be vaccinated, even if it harms society and society? In a democracy like ours, we should not apply the tyranny of the majority, but have a duty to protect the health of all of us together and to take explicit account of the vulnerable minority. That really is the foundation of a democratic rule of law. But because of the way in which the government works, the communication and the intransigence that it sometimes shows, this debate is also about trust. When false arguments are used to impose urge, I can imagine that people no longer trust the government. Let us be quite honest: some people also have all kinds of reasons to distrust that government, especially in the light of the scandals that have taken place. Mr. Chairman. My group knows the dilemma. We believe that people have the right not to be vaccinated. At the same time, we also find it a real dilemma that vaccinees suffer from people who deliberately do not allow themselves to be vaccinated. The fact is that the more we prick, the more we relieve care and the more freedoms there are. That is why I would like to ask the cabinet how the government deals with this dilemma, how we deal with entrepreneurs who refuse to maintain them, and where the municipalities get extra enforcement. Mr. Chairman. One final point. GroenLinks strongly supports more testing. Last night I was outside the Action Group on Schools Secure, with Mrs. Kuik and Mr. Paternotte, which shows that tests can also be easily accessible. If the cabinet brings society much more into the decisions that are being made and offers far more tests as an alternative, then we can restore confidence in society. That should be one of the goals of the conversation we're having here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u205	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A year and a half ago, a virus that was caused by the way man treats animals and nature. Corona is a serious virus. The fight against it is important. We're not here yet. People are still hospitalized and hospitalized every day and care is still under severe pressure. But for the Party for Animals virus control has never been the only interest. For example, the general mental health, mental health and well-being of young people in my group have always been part of the balance of interests. Unfortunately, we have seen that the cabinet did careless and inimitable things in this balancing of interests, which have damaged confidence in the cabinet. Take the corona law, the curfew. We would be stuck with that for three weeks, but it was repeatedly extended by the cabinet. Take the improper closure of the schools, which has not yet been discussed. And now there's this coronapas that the Health Minister told us wouldn't be there. We still hear Minister De Jonge say that there could be no compulsion and urge and that rewards for having you vaccinated were not the issue. In his view, that would not be good for the willingness to be vaccinated. The Health Council pointed out in February that the coronapas is a far-reaching form of that vaccination urge. The cabinet has been unable to reach the large groups in cities that are overrepresented in the unvaccinated group in recent times. That problem has been known for a long time and has not been solved. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet has simply not done its job well. It has not been possible to reach people in a language they understand, so some of the people have not been able to make an informed choice. Now the cabinet comes up with this horse medicine. A vaccination provides a high level of protection against serious illness and hospitalisation, but does not guarantee that the virus no longer spreads, especially that delta variant. The fact that people are given a green check mark when they are vaccinated could, therefore, be an irresponsible form of security. Then pretending that the coronapas would be the solution might bring us even further away from home, not least because it causes a division in society that no one says they want. Recent research on behalf of the RIVM has already been mentioned as ZonMw and the RIVM's own behavior unit, the minister actually gave on a paper what you have to do to help people get that informed choice. Nowhere was the recommendation: use urge or compulsion. The Minister said this and that was also the position of the majority in the Chamber. I would like to emphasise that. We have agreed here with each other, in a majority, not to want that compulsion and urge. And then, chairman, the point that has not yet been mentioned: privacy. I have heard a lot of people say: I have been vaccinated, but why should I share my private medical data with random other citizens? Mr. Chairman. Cabinet policy is sweeping and undermining the rule of law. The formula 1 was allowed to continue, but festivals were not. The schools were closed to force parents to work at home. The Netherlands has thus fallen legally through the ice, according to a professor of human rights this summer. My group is very much in favour of the rule of law. We are dealing with bogus security, vaccination urge, violation of privacy and a government that is swarming and even undermining confidence in the corona policy and the willingness to be vaccinated. Mr. Chairman. I can imagine that the question would then arise: what should happen? Since the start of the corona crisis, the Party for Animals has been asking for a coherent approach to the crisis and to protect Dutch people from large unhealthies, fast food chains and soft drink giants. The Scientific Council for Government Policy said it once again yesterday: the situation in the care sector is unsustainable because there is not enough health promotion. On the initiative of the Party for Animals, the Chamber called on the Cabinet and gave it every opportunity to improve the basic health of Dutch people. But to this day, the cabinet has left it behind. As far as my group is concerned, we are ensuring that the information on vaccines is made available to everyone, but for the time being we are keeping the system of fixed seats and nightclubs open, and we are clearly saying that these sectors should be compensated, and therefore those support packages should continue. As far as our group is concerned, travel restrictions will also be maintained and we will continue to work at home for the time being. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The Party for the Animals it will not have escaped anyone's notice..................................................................................................................... I trust that the majority of this Chamber will join us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u207	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we're at a crossroads. A new phase in this crisis is beginning, because the vaccines work, fewer people are severely ill and the infection rates are low. And yes, then comes the moment when we can make the leap towards releasing the measures. But what is the right time and how? In doing so, the Christian Union wants to opt for trust in society and not unnecessary government interference, but rather encourage it to live well and take care of each other. It is important to maintain these values now too. That's why I have three benchmarks. It remains our mission to prevent division, to protect vulnerable people and to make choices that are sustainable for care. During the press conference, however, the Minister chose a harsh tone towards unvaccinated people. Does that help? The group of 1.8 million Dutch people is diverse. A lot of people are in doubt. The vaccination rate in the vulnerable urban areas is low, and we know that there is suspicion of the government. A loud tone and repeat that the tests are only free for the time being: it doesn't help. The Christian Union has previously indicated that it has great difficulty with this form of urge and that is unchanged. And yes, as far as that doubting group is concerned, there is a profit to be made: with a permanent, findable place with familiar faces and involvement of volunteer organisations, appropriate information and communication. Avoid testing being seen as bullying. Make sure it continues to contribute to preventing infections. Mr. Chairman. In addition to this fundamental effort with regard to urge, I also have many practical questions about the access pass. Because what is arranged for people who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons? Does this entry permit actually have an effect on preventing infections? In a busy disco you can imagine this, but not at the coffee in the morning on the terrace on the Markt in Gouda or at the beach pavilion in Katwijk. For a family with unvaccinated teenagers, the yellow M is impossible, while a visit to the furniture giant or the garden center is not included. How does the cabinet view proportionality? Is there more customization there, really focused on the places where the level of infection is higher? I ask the cabinet to go on the basis of the Temporary Law Corona Access Cards for the new version. In May we talked about making more possible with regard to major events. An ordinary café visit was not the purpose at the time. Has it been considered to maintain the 1.5 metres in some sectors or to allow a choice? We read in the OMT recommendation that alternatives have been considered. Think of working at home and the group size from 30 people. Why wasn't that chosen? Can that be substantiated? Finally, does the cabinet intend to withdraw the tickets? At what vaccination rate? Or does the cabinet have other plans? Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the pressure on care in hospitals is high. We can see that there's an unprecedentedly high absenteeism. The flu season has yet to begin and we know that the relaxations unfortunately increase the occupancy of beds in hospitals. How does the cabinet assess the available ic capacity? Have the nurses been heard? After the applause and the bonus, we can now implement the ESC opinion, we want to keep the care up to date in 2022. The ordinary nurses, the people with the greatest distance in terms of salary from wages in the market or the public sector, must once again find that valuation is not just words, right now. With how the system works, we can't wait until the fall. Then the care should wait another year for a raise. So I'm curious about the cabinet's plans. Together with the SP colleague, I have made a proposal that 600 million should be deployed and that, in the long run, 1 billion should be made available to the people who are really at the bed. This can also be done, through corporation tax, the profits of companies. Because after 80 billion support from the State, very rightly and what did it help, what was the effect good! The other way around may be asked to give up a very small amount of the profit for the care. England and the U.S. came before us. Mr President, two other points. First of all, with regard to decision-making. Leaky plans, press conferences without OMT advice, of everything public: it does not change and I have difficulty with that, because in this corona debate we also have to give an opinion on the vaccination registration of health care personnel, and passerby. Those are major themes, which we actually see coming from far and wide and which then have to be discussed in four minutes now, fortunately, in five minutes, thanks to your grace, Mr President, but still. It is really very little time for points that we see coming for a long time. Wouldn't it be better to organize that with each other, I wonder? As far as vaccination registration is concerned, the Christian Union is standing next to the trade unions. It limits freedoms, while providing false security. We will not support that. Mr. Chairman. I started with it: we're at a crossroads. Do we opt for an approach that mainly operates from distrust of groups or do we strengthen society itself to ward off corona? As far as the Christian Union is concerned, now that things are getting better, we stand equally firm for fundamental rights, for freedoms, for the prevention of division. We should take the leap sometime, that's clear. The cabinet is looking for ways to let go of the measures, and we are happy to do so with them, but let us try to keep all people of good will involved. Encourage that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u209	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u210	Mr. Chairman. I've been thinking a long time before I wrote these words, because I was actually planning something completely different. I wanted, as usual, to try to convince you and your Chamber again with rational and scientifically substantiated arguments of the insane character of the dystopia that is rolling out our cabinet at an increasing rate, in lock step, strikingly in synchronised and with many other countries around the world, about the plagued Dutch population. You will be responsible for a medical apartheid state, complete with first- and second-class citizens, for a common reason: a bug that is as terrifying as the first to be the best cold virus. Mr. Chairman. How many times have we stood here to debate non-working mouth caps, non-working evening bells, the effects on young people and entrepreneurs who were no longer in business, the suicides and bankruptcies, and non-working measures such as closing down the catering industry or the 1.5 metres? Your room didn't listen, talked about it, and was either in clappers or on phone calls. Even now that this nightmare, this contagion, this horror film comes to its peak, now that the cabinet really has the guts to transform the Netherlands into an apartheid state, every sense of reality and every courage remains with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u211	Excuse me. There is an interruption by Mr Hijink, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u212	Mr Baudet spoke of a "medical apartheid state." The need to associate with all wrong regimes is very deep in Forum, with the term "medical apartheid state." Mr Baudet felt that vaccinees and non-vaccines would stand side by side in a form of apartheid. I would therefore like to ask Mr Baudet whether, in his view, there are situations in a society in which groups of people are treated differently on the basis of their health and health status and are placed in different groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u213	These are theoretical discussions in which there is no doubt that something is being held up or can be shuffled off the sleeve. This is not a theoretical discussion. No, we are talking about a very concrete, very real situation, where people in the Netherlands will be placed in two different camps as from 25 September: the people who have been injected with experimental gene therapy and the people who refuse to do so, the people who accept that the government will have total control over our lives with a QR code and the people who do not accept it. That's apartheid. Then there are first-class and second-class citizens. We will never accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u214	I would like to speak with Mr Baudet a year ago, when Mr Hiddema and Mr Baudet made proposals. At that time, in this Chamber, in the previous Chamber, proposals were made by the Forum for Democracy to establish a two-stream society, to set up a society in such a way that people with vulnerable health would isolate themselves from people with a healthy body, so that this latter group could continue to live as they wish. At the time, Mr Hiddema spoke of a "reverse lockdown." Proposals have been made by Forum or should not be examined to see whether separate train compartments should be provided for vulnerable people to sit in, so that they could separate themselves from those who liked to keep wine tastings. Separate train compartment! When Mr Baudet talks about'medical apartheid', would he like to recall the time when he himself proposed a regime in which a division became the norm and where vulnerable people were separated from people with good health?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u215	What I meant when I was talking about that... that's all in the early days, when I didn't realize what a grandiose deception this whole corona story is. I made a big mistake then by being in favour of a lockdown for a short time. I'm sorry about that. I didn't know at the time we were being fooled so incredibly. I didn't get that until later. Then I made a number of suggestions, here in politics, to get out in an orderly, controlled way. I have never proposed anything, as Mr Hijink puts me in the mouth here, to force people to sit in other coupes and things like that. I said: there are people in the Netherlands who are afraid; can we not offer all kinds of things to them, while we open up the rest of the country? I've been looking for all kinds of ways to open up as quickly as possible, offering the people who were afraid things, such as home delivery of groceries and special areas in public transport where they can sit at a distance if they want to. I mean that kind of thing. But it is in no way an obligation or other rights. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u216	Mr. Baudet, you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u217	Is it clear? Yes. Almost mechanically rubber-stamps you as a Chamber and you as a cabinet Netherlands straight into hell, in which 1984 pales. You will be shrugging your shoulders on how many millions of QR slaves are soon facing a traffic light, in which the government determines under what conditions and at what moments they are allowed to live as their app is for a moment on green. You watch carelessly how a legion of untouchables is created. Those are the unpainted, the QR-refusals, the wappies, as you probably call them, who refuse stoic to participate in your medical experiment with a mandatory and undoubtedly infinite series of injections. I refuse to try to convince you and your Chamber on this subject any longer of the abject insanity offensive that the cabinet, clearly headed by the World Economic Forum, the World Health Organization, Bill Gates and so on, is working on, while you are hurting me to say that it is obviously deliberately choosing to participate fully in it, against all the better knowledge in it. Maybe a few among you are faking some pacific position at a level of detail, but in the end all the parties I see here are just going to sign at the cross, the cross on which the Netherlands is hanged. You know that, I know that, and Klaus Schwab, who, as we heard from Rutte, closely follows the debates in the Netherlands. No, Mr. Chairman, all this...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u218	Would you like to speak through the chairman? It's the Prime Minister. I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u219	We know from Mr Rutte, the Prime Minister, that Klaus Schwab is following the debates very closely. No, Mr President, I am not addressing you today to the House of Representatives of the States-General. But through you, Madam President, I am addressing the Dutch directly. I am specifically addressing the many millions who have not been hypnotized by watching and listening to panic porn on panic television and radio at night, the many people who doubt the official narrative, the people who, above all, want to remain free citizens and do not want to be whipped like chickens in a battery by farmer Hugo and his cruel servants. Free people of the Netherlands, Forum for Democracy is here for you. I'm here for you. We will continue to fight for your freedom and for our freedom whatever happens. We'll be that sturdy, but lonely anchor pole you can put on, that bar where we can talk freely, laugh and hug, without sickening mouth caps or QR codes. Anyone who loves freedom, who does not accept this madness, is welcome to us. If we're excluded from society, we'll make it cozy ourselves. Because we Dutch are a proud people and not slaves to a system that none of us have chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u220	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Then we go to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u221	Our democracy is valuable and, at the same time, extremely vulnerable. In a world where problems are becoming increasingly complex, danger is constantly lurking. It is precisely then that we need moral and decisive leadership, leadership that honors and protects democracy, leadership that explains complex problems, communicates clearly to its citizens and creates frameworks. But on all these points, our cabinet has failed. With this failure, a breeding ground has been created for populists and demagogues who sell disinformation as if they were hot sandwiches. Mr. Chairman. The fact is that many people who are sensitive to that disinformation feel abandoned by their government. And blame them. Only 21% of the Dutch believe that the cabinet is moving in a clear direction. In the previous debate, I already compared the leadership of our cabinet with the dodo, the coronadodo, to be precise. But I failed you. The dodo only harmed itself, but the cabinet, with its wandering policy, mainly harmed others. This cabinet is the proverbial soft healer who makes stinking wounds. Your attitude as a cabinet, your communication as a cabinet and your policy as a cabinet have turned benevolent people into government shudders and averse people. Mr. Chairman. In the absence of clarity, I have some questions that the Minister can ask for clarification. It is your concern to inform and protect your citizens. Firstly, can the Minister explain to us, step by step, why the cabinet is abandoning the basic measures and trading in them for a corona pass? Can you tell me how many more hospitalisations are expected to come from releasing the measures and how many hospitalisations will be prevented by the corona pass? Only then can we discuss the usefulness and necessity of replacing the basic measures with the corona pass. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, can the Minister explain clearly to the healthcare workers, the care heroes, as he himself mentioned earlier, that he is releasing the basic measures? Care collapses, not later, but now, with autumn coming. Whole departments are closed due to failure. The collateral damage of deferred care is incalculable. The pressure on the ic is already high. Do you really believe that replacing the basic measures with a coronapas is a back-up for care? And how does the cabinet judge Mr Gommers' view that care should be kept manageable, but that it should be chosen for the scenario with the most risks? Mr. Chairman. Third. For many people, this remains unclear. The Minister indicated that vaccinees were significantly less contagious than unvaccinated. As a Volt, we hope to do so, but can you also show us the latest hard scientific figures? And can the Minister explain the added value of stricter ventilation requirements and CO meters for busy indoor spaces such as schools and nightclubs? The risk of transmission in these places is too high and the logic of the measures to reduce this risk is lacking. Mr President, I will conclude. Big leaders take their people. They don't turn on their people, they talk seriously and compassionately and empathy with them. They inspire them. Think of leaders like Gandhi, Atatürk or Franklin Delano Roosevelt. But at the moment there are also closer to home leaders who dare to do so. Look at Draghi, who carries out difficult reforms decisively, or Merkel, who sits down like a mother and speaks to her people with warmth, tranquillity and intellect. The Netherlands deserves such a kind of leadership. But that leadership is lacking at the moment. Mr. Chairman. Let there be no misunderstanding: Volt is in favour of the coronapas, but not under the current circumstances. The coronapas should serve as an additional layer of protection, not as a substitute for the basic measures. Because in a society where 1.8 million people have not been vaccinated and 700,000 people do not use the vaccine, the cabinet must maintain the basic measures. Only then does Volt want to look at the introduction of the coronapas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u222	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u223	Mr. Chairman. Today's debate may be brief. After all, the Chamber has been very clear: no direct or indirect vaccination obligation, no vaccination requirement, but no vaccination urge either. The cabinet must stick to this. Minister De Jonge has previously stated in no uncertain terms that there will be no benefits for vaccinees. So the QR access code cannot be created; end of debate. But that's not how it works. The cabinet intends to reduce the corona measures in a complicated way half-heartedly. This leads to improper pressure on vaccination. My group does not have a good word for that. Earlier, my group expressed appreciation if things were to go well. If that is not the case, I would also like to mention it. Mr. Chairman. The choice of a corona access pass is a bad choice. In fact, that choice is stupid and lazy. This choice is unworkable, costs entrepreneurs and cannot be maintained. Even the mayor of Amsterdam has announced that he will not go into enforcement. The test-for-access fiasco cost 1 billion and did not lead to a decrease in the infections. The probability that a QR code access system will do so is very small. This was about the elaboration, but there is a consideration that is more fundamental. With this step, the cabinet deliberately chases people against each other in armour. We are on the verge of a division in society, in order to achieve a minuscule increase of 85,6% to a maximum of 91% vaccination, while the technical briefing made it very clear what the less than 15% unvaccinated are. These are a handful of groups: young people, people with a migration background, people with strong religious beliefs and people with little trust in institutions. The assignment for the cabinet is therefore clear: identify what approach per group is needed. Is it bad, for example, that there are a few areas where people do not allow themselves to be vaccinated on the basis of religious beliefs? Or do we not have to worry about Urk because everyone has already had the virus and is now immune? Then go focused on groups, with information that connects to their background. Send Moroccan and Turkish doctors into the Schilderswijk to talk to the residents. Focus on targeted target groups. Offer information. Come with an outstretched hand. Offer more possibilities for vaccinating, no less opportunities for unvacinated. Then the last group, the group with little confidence in agencies. In March 2020 79% of the Dutch had confidence in the national government. In April 2021, this was reduced to 49%. Not even half of the Dutch people trust the Dutch government anymore. Normally, trust in the government is fairly stable. Direct cause of this dwindling trust, according to research, is the dazzling corona policy. The limping jumps of the cabinet pay off in discontent and mistrust, apart from the sham of the new administrative culture. Mr. Chairman. My group's position is clear. JA21 is for voluntary vaccination for anyone who wants it, with extra focus on protecting the risk groups. JA21 is against improper pressure on vaccination, especially when it comes to children. This must be a voluntary choice at all times. Proper information should be promoted, with information and availability, but no pressure should ever be put on. The vaccination rate is high and is still rising, but this policy increases resistance and puts people in the sand. Healthy policy means balancing and seeking a balance between different interests. The one-sided focus of this cabinet presupposes that there is only one direction, a direction that sets people against each other, which is not going to work, which is costing entrepreneurs and which is not going to be maintained. The balance's been lost. My group is not in favour of this. We are therefore adamant against the corona pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u224	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u225	Apple pie on a terrace, a family dinner, a drink with colleagues: anyone who has not been vaccinated will have to be tested for this every time. The threshold for unvaccinated people to participate in public life is increasing. It's a deliberate choice of this cabinet. And it is a choice that really goes too far with regard to the SGP. The one-and-a-half-meter society is exchanged for the QR society. This is a dangerous, very dangerous route for the cabinet. The plan harms confidence in a government that claimed for months that there would never be vaccination coercion or urge, directly or indirectly. The coronapas stimulates the division in society and puts elderly and digibetes at a disadvantage. I say to the Prime Minister: on that Nokiaatje, I don't think you'll get a QR code either, so I'm curious as to how you're going to do that. Oh, look, it's modernised. Okay, Mr. Chairman. Access tests will remain free for the time being. But in the press conference, a strong line was always put under the word "for the time being." In this respect, we are not under any illusions as a SGP. That corona pass is only temporary, the Prime Minister says. But I'm very curious how temporary that is. When are we going to abolish it? The cabinet seems increasingly to see the restriction of fundamental rights as a tricky side effect. There will always be a group that will not be vaccinated, no matter what you take out of the closet. That was shown by colleagues earlier. Vaccines can still get sick and infect others. The effects of vaccines are slowly decreasing. In other words, there will always be reason to use a coronapas. My question to the cabinet is: how are you going to escape that iron logic? If you don't feel like getting tested, you're gonna get poked anyway, says Minister De Jonge. Does the Minister really think that this intrusive attitude is pulling people over the line? I gotta tell you, I get that you're gonna put the heels in the sand. I mention people with little faith in government, government policy and vaccination. Behavioural scientists at RIVM say and warn us: respect and acknowledge the legitimacy of different opinions and perceptions, as insisting always works counter-productively. Everyone has had a chance to be pricked, the Minister says. But is that right? Have we really reached everyone? And why doesn't the Cabinet put much more time and energy into listening to, talking to and reliable informing people with concerns or objections? Mr. Chairman. The SGP fears that this will not be the case. The ease of control is too great. In other countries we already see serious examples of this. Under pressure from the interest groups, the cabinet wants to examine the working situations in which the coronapas can be used. What impact does this have on the position of employees? If your boss knows you don't want to get vaccinated, there's a chance there's pressure to find another job. What signal does the cabinet send to all those health care workers who have worked their asses off for us all over the past year? Mr. Chairman. In dealing with the law that forms the basis for the coronapas, the cabinet said that entrepreneurs have freedom of choice and can choose not to work with the corona app, but to maintain the one-and-a-half meter measure. But that freedom of choice is now being exchanged for a duty. This gives a different meaning to the law. The SGP strongly wonders how enforceable the coronapas is, especially in places where this measure is considered to be extra disproportionate, for example because the number of infections has been low for a long time. Anyway, Mr. Chairman. What does the SGP want? The SGP wants this. Stop the fixation on vaccination. We need a wider arsenal to fight the virus. The SGP understands that clinical trials for a number of antiviral medicines are at an advanced stage. Does the cabinet choose to buy them on parole and is working on an import plan so that these medicines can be provided to patients as soon as possible after authorisation? I'd like an answer to that. The SGP often requested an extension of care capacity in and outside the hospital. Why has the cabinet barely managed to do this? And Israeli research suggests that a through infection provides large and long-term protection. A recovery certificate is now only useful for six months. Why isn't this just valid indefinitely? And: also make sure that a serological test, in plain words a blood test for antibodies in the blood, allows you to request a recovery certificate. I would strongly urge the cabinet to do so. And finally, make much more use of people's own responsibilities, and enable citizens and businesses to do the right thing and the right thing by themselves. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u226	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK, who has taken something, I see. If it's okay, the messenger's watching. I call Mr Kuzu van Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u227	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. This cabinet is going crazy. This cabinet is way out of line. And this cabinet is actually completely lost. Because despite the fact that the infection rates are stable and low, despite the fact that hospital admissions are stable and low and despite the fact that intensive care recordings are stable and low, despite the fact that 80% of adults have already been vaccinated and despite the fact that 90% of the Netherlands have a form of immunity, this cabinet wants to make the Netherlands a coronadictatature. The restaurant stays tight after 24:00. And this cabinet comes up with the crazy plan to introduce a coronapas for access to society. This cabinet introduces a QR society. You're gonna have to get tested, or you're not gonna get in. You need to get vaccinated, or you can't be part of it. You have to prove you've been vaccinated, otherwise you're a risk to society. People who, for whatever reason, do not want to be vaccinated, do not want to be tested, are excluded by this cabinet. That is a disgrace, that is urge, that is disproportionate, that is division of society. And not only does this cabinet kick 1.8 million Dutch people into misery and exclusion, it not only legitimizes the division into society. This cabinet also cheats, does not keep to the agreements and statements made by the Chamber. Because it was a motion tabled by my colleague Azarkan on 28 October 2021. I have printed him out for Mr De Jonge and Mr Rutte, who says:'says that there should never be a direct or indirect vaccination obligation in the future'. With the exception of the VVD and D66 vaccination fanatics, the entire Chamber was in favour. Mr. Chairman. Mr Wilders has also tabled a motion on this subject which states that pressure and compulsion should not be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u228	Don't I get a plate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u229	I printed it out really big, so it's readable for everyone. But if Mr Wilders wants one too, I will have a few more printed. You can frame it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u230	He can go to Mr. Wilders right now, because he's being taken away from there. No, no, we're not doing a demonstration here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u231	At the end, I would also like to offer these words to the cabinet, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. With the coronapas, the cabinet introduces an indirect form of vaccination obligation, because if you don't vaccinate, you have to get tested, and if you don't, you can't go to a café, restaurant, cinema or theater. Each political party already has its own definition of "force" and "force." It is therefore also a good thing that we have asked the Health Council what the definition of "demand" is: there is an urge when a person's decision space is restricted or when someone is affected in such a way that he or she actually has less freedom of choice. Mr. Chairman. If you deny non-vaccinators access to society, it's a form of urge. You can't have a semantic discussion about that anymore. The worst part is that this cabinet lied again. Mr. Rutte and Mr. De Jonge lied. As can be seen on the board, Minister De Jonge said about an indirect vaccination obligation: "We are not going to do that. In fact, I think we should also make that legally impossible. Because voluntary is voluntary, so voluntary is not secretly mandatory, but then via another route." This statement was made by Hugo de Jonge in EenVandaag on 22 April 2020. It's a reminder. What Mr De Jonge is doing is to introduce a vaccination obligation via a secret route. That's not the end of it. Even if we are used to it, the Prime Minister also lied very loudly. As can be seen on this other sign, he said: "If there is no vaccination obligation, then I legally assume that it is not possible to force people either. It just can't be. It just can't be. So companies can't impose that as a condition." These statements were made last year by Mark Rutte during the General Political Reviews. Mr. Chairman. What the cabinet is doing now is introducing a vaccination obligation. Applying this as a condition means urge. That is against the ruling of the Chamber. In conclusion, this cabinet is lying. This cabinet reintroduces division into society. The cabinet keeps the Netherlands in a coronadicature. My group is clear: away with these unfortunate ideas of Rutte and De Jonge, away with the corona pass. My group will not agree to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u232	Thank you. It's the Prime Minister and it's the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u233	I know that, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to hand these signs over to both ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u234	I'll ask the boss. I will allow it now, but I would like to point out to the Members of Parliament that this is a plenary session. Demonstrating is what we do out there. I don't want to give other MPs any ideas. Sometimes it's nice to hand over a book or something, but this is an exception. I'd like to ask the MPs not to do this anymore. We're not demonstrating, we're debating. Thank you, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u235	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u236	Then I will go to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group. I hear Minister De Jonge say he wants the signs so he can re-use them for his own term. Yeah, that's what you get. Action response. I call Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u237	At least the signs are recycled, so that's nice. Thank you, Mr President. hugging each other again, being able to go to a party deep into the night, not having to wear a mask, visiting the nursing home again without restrictions, planning and handling all the catching-up care, happy children who can do nice things with their friends again: how nice would that be? We have had a difficult time together as a society: overcrowded hospitals, people who are sick at home, unable to go to work, entrepreneurs who have had a hard time or even gone bankrupt, young people with mental problems due to social isolation, lonely elderly people who have seen no one for a long time, and large outages and absenteeism in care. We could never have imagined this situation two years ago. The worst seems to be over, but we're far from there. What exactly do we want? We need to make an informed choice, based on solidarity for each other and knowing, in all honesty, that more freedom also means that we are at risk. It's a difficult dilemma; everyone's talking about it. But in my view, freedom is not without obligation, certainly not with corona lurking. I know what I want. I'd like to go back to normal. But unfortunately, that doesn't just happen. At the moment 1.8 million people have not yet been vaccinated in our country. This group is so large that the pressure on care in winter is likely to increase again due to the influx of covid patients if we do nothing. This also means that the catching-up and regular care will stagnate again. Then I'm not even talking about the huge absenteeism due to the workload in the care that's already there. With the flu period approaching, I'm afraid we're gonna get even more breakdown in care. We really can't afford that. And yes, people who have been vaccinated can still transfer the virus. We have heard that a few times today, and also yesterday during the technical briefing. But research also shows that this transfer is much lower after vaccination. That's what we see in the numbers on hospital admissions and on ICU. There's almost nothing left but unvaccinated. Betting for the highest possible vaccination rate is, of course, and remains, the most important. Unfortunately, there is also a group of vulnerable people who do not respond well to the vaccine, or who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. They have lived in isolation for the last year and a half. The introduction of a corona ticket will enable them to participate more safely in society. Mr. Chairman. Then the catering business. Like most colleagues, I am deeply concerned about the catering industry. The entrepreneurs in the catering industry have had a very hard time, and still. And no, I'd rather go out without a pass. But yes, I do support the corona admissions. But we also need to realise that this may cause blockages for people to go out again. In other countries we also see a significant reduction in the number of hospitality visits. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to continue the support package for the catering industry at least until the end of this year. I would like to ask the Minister if he can explain why nightclubs and pubs can only open until 00.00 hours. With the introduction of a corona admission ticket, I believe that this measure is unnecessary for the entire hospitality sector. I would also like to ask the Minister whether he could distinguish between the so-called dry and wet restaurants. A corona ticket for a café I can really understand, but for a cup of coffee on a terrace or dinner in a restaurant it seems really unnecessary. We are therefore placing unnecessary measures on this catering industry. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another group that would like to be vaccinated but which is difficult to arrange for themselves. They're non-mobile home residents, often elderly. Before the recess, some of these people hadn't been vaccinated yet. The Minister indicated earlier, following an approved motion from me, that it was not necessary to use the district care and that home vaccination.nl would do so. I'm just curious as to how the vaccination rate under this group is now. Mr President, I have one more question. That's the last one. There is still a group of people in the Netherlands who are not digital. They're often elderly. We can request paper QR codes. I understand from a lot of people that that's actually going very well. I also hear older people say: could we not apply for it from our general practitioner? That would be a little easier for them. I would like to ask the Minister whether this could be possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u238	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u239	Thank you. President and inhabitants of the Netherlands. Who would have thought, in March 2020? Then the credo was: wash your hands, not hoard, and if you have any complaints, stay home. Who would have thought that one and a half years later we would live in a polarized and split society in which groups of friends, neighbors, colleagues and families were confronted in opposite ways? A society in which we started to name Henk and Ingrid and Mohammed and Fatima the vaccinees and the unvaccinated. It's unbelievable. The outgoing minister and the outgoing prime minister continued with the coronapas the division in the Netherlands. Instead of the missionary minister De Jonge making an effort to remove the concerns or ignorance of Henk and Ingrid, Mohammed and Fatima about vaccinations, he calls them decadent, antisocial and a great danger to society. With statements like this, he drives many people further away from the government. That's what worries me. Can the outgoing minister undertake not to use this terminology anymore and to engage in talks with these people? I am also curious about the status for children with a medical indication and other people who cannot be vaccinated and cannot be tested. They are now in danger of being excluded because they still do not receive recognition of their medical indication and therefore do not receive a QR code. I'd like an answer from the Minister. Vaccined people are treated differently from unvaccinated people. This is at odds with the principles of the democratic rule of law: equal treatment of equal cases and unequal cases according to their level of inequality. That's where it wrings. Because a vaccinated person can also be contagious, but does not need to be tested. A vaccinated person who does not need to be tested can thus in a café an unvaccined person who has been tested and thus negative infected. Can the outgoing minister explain this to the Netherlands, so that we all understand the logic? Let's talk about the "don't bitch, if you don't want to have a vaccination, you're just gonna get tested, aren't you?" I'm just gonna call this canal belt bullshit. People who say this have no idea what life outside the Ring A10 looks like. An example. A resident of Eemshaven who wants to eat at the local restaurant Diekgat has to drive to Groningen for a test. That's 60 kilometers back and forth. Then it is to be hoped that that person has a car, because with public transport this trip takes three hours to and from. If you want to eat a nice piece of meat in Steakhouse La Pampa in Gelderen, Gelderland, you have to drive 44 kilometers back and forth to Zutphen. If you're on public transport, you'll be on the road for two hours and 16 minutes with three transfers. And then that test site has to be available, because it wasn't when I checked. So we come back to the vaccination compulsion or urge. Because, as it is said, you just have to be vaccinated. The vaccination control circle is complete. Mr. Chairman. The relationship between the coronapas and the goal is far removed. This policy affects many young people, for example the 13- to 18-year-olds, who are just beginning to live their social lives; young people who hardly end up on the ic's or really get sick. They have to go to the test street all the time to have a social life. And then hope that as a youngster you don't live in Eemshaven or Spiriteren, although I would like to emphasize that here our countryside is of course beautiful to live. There is also an unworkable situation for entrepreneurs. Additional staff is an additional cost. However, the aid measures have already been abolished. There's no way the entrepreneurs are gonna pay the bill. Can the outgoing minister explain to us how entrepreneurs are compensated? Mr. Chairman. Let's tackle the shortage of staff in healthcare. Let us put all the millions still to be spent on a debacle such as the corona pass, in promoting a healthy lifestyle, in sports clubs, in subsidies for ventilation in school buildings, theatres and restaurants and in disease prevention. That's what's happening. And, finally, let's follow what the RIVM Corona Behavioral Unit recommends. I quote: "Communicate inclusive. Respect and acknowledge the legitimacy of different opinions and perceptions. Emphasise that everyone is part of it. Avoid people or groups from feeling isolated and excluded." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u240	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Less than a month ago, I expressed my deep concern at the release of virtually all measures in schools. Earlier this summer, we saw what such a rushed step can mean. And well, meanwhile, the figures of RIVM make it clear that you do not expect the infections among children to have more than doubled. In response to this phenomenon, an OMT member said that children pass the virus on to each other, "so be it." But oh woe to you when you point out the smear policy that is used with this: that is uncivilized. But it was this cabinet that conducted policy without vision. Without an eye for the long run. A policy that focused on virus spreading and raging, rather than on virus control and containment. The scientifically proven effect of mouth caps, messed with the test capacity and sectors such as catering and arts and culture are abandoned, while the large multinationals were able to count on billions of support. We saw tens of thousands of people go loose at a nature-destructive event in Zandvoort, while festival organisations are in the hair. Mr. Chairman. Then you can't be surprised when trust in policy and government disappears like snow before the sun. Because who does this policy actually work for? I have said it many times: not for the vulnerable groups, not for the young, not for the students, not for the catering and festivals, not for the arts and culture sectors, and certainly not for everyone who works so hard in the care sector. But according to the minister, it's all because of the under-vaccination rate. I have already referred to this in the previous debate, and I am looking again at the Minister. Can he reflect on the role of the outgoing cabinet when it comes to mop-up policies and falling confidence? That falling confidence is being exploited by the extreme right to create a breeding ground of fake news. We've been able to see another piece of it today. Such fake news has turned its back on the substantive debate on policy and on everything that is going wrong at the moment. This makes it difficult to discuss, for example, the corona passes. For many, the great need to be politically critical quickly feels like joining extreme right-wing sounds. Those sounds, it won't be a surprise to anyone, I reject, but be critical, I will certainly. Because you know, Mr President, although the Chamber has passed several motions with the explicit request, what do I say? From the Chamber it's an assignment! In order not to take measures such as the corona passes, the outgoing cabinet has once again shown that we in the Chamber do not really have so much milk to crumble. This last policy choice with regard to the corona passes is a sham solution to a problem caused by this cabinet's mispolicy. It is a solution that is not sustainable. It is a solution that does not respect the vulnerable groups and our care staff. It is a solution that gives the impression that the global crisis, this pandemic, is behind us, as if it were decided by the Council of Ministers. If you really take healthcare professionals seriously and don't shuffle them away by waving away their concerns, then you know that we are still in the middle of the crisis and that the fear and fear of a new wave in the autumn are great. The release of the measures is, once again, far too early. Abroad, they describe it as "The Dutch are going rogue again." How does the government view the course of the virus circulation this autumn? Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that it is thanks to this policy that we are faced with this kind of torn-up, polarising choices at all. Since the beginning of the pandemic, BET1 has argued for containment, with the aim of effectively protecting people and preventing contamination. It was and is still the choice of the cabinet to steer on the ic-capacity. In other words, to make people sick, in line with what can still be worn in hospitals on paper. Every time I say that sentence, I think: it's inhuman, from the beginning. Mr. Chairman. I shall conclude with an observation. If, from day one, we had chosen fair policies that respect the different interests, nuances and the right of everyone to be facilitated by the government in a healthy life, we would not have to have this kind of debate today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u242	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Finally, we will go to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u243	Mr. Chairman. The lie rules. Minister De Jonge first deceived the youngsters with his slogan Dancing with Janssen. Then Minister De Jonge stated several times that there would be no benefits for people who have been vaccinated. And now we see that these were all lies. After the whole society is destroyed for fear of a virus similar to a heavy flu, we now slide to a situation where the state imposes medical apartheid. Unvaccinated people are excluded from society and treated as lepers. Whereas people who have had corona have a much higher immunity, and vaccinees can still get sick and can also infect others. Mr. Chairman. The interest of the Netherlands will never accept this and we will fight the coronapas on fire and on sword. That is why I call on the catering industry, the cultural sector and all parties forced by the government to discriminate against their guests in order to disobey this criminal appeal. We're not in on this. That is why I call on all young people, let us say 50 years and younger. Don't get tested again. The aforementioned group of young people is at negligible risk, but by getting tested, you are maintaining this dictatorial nonsense. So if you have any complaints, stay home, but don't go back to the test street. Mr. Chairman. After the fantastic success of Formula 1 in Zandvoort, the festival industry can again be full on the organ. So how does the Minister explain the 75% visitor limit? And it is nice that the completely pointless one-and-a-half meter rule for the catering industry is released, but can the Minister explain why closing hours are maintained until 12:00 a.m.? The aid measures will be discontinued on 1 October, the hospitality and the festival industry will still be heavily affected and the increases will be presented as relaxations. Another lie. Where does the minister think the hospitality department is gonna get the staff to check out that disgusting coronapas? Many staff have been working in such a dystopian test street for a long time now. I have one last question for the Minister. If all 50-plussers get corona in one go, how many will end up on the ICU? I asked Mrs De Vries earlier; she did not know. But that's what it's all about, isn't it, the ic occupation? Do you remember the adopted motion Kuzu/Van Haga to steer on the bed occupation? How did the Minister implement this motion? Mr. Chairman. The limits of the rule of law are being exceeded. Fundamental rights are being violated. The interest of the Netherlands wants a parliamentary inquiry as soon as possible, and as far as we are concerned, the perpetrators will go to prison as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u244	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. After the suspension we start with the first term from the cabinet side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u245	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u246	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u247	There's been a technical malfunction, I understand. There's no image and no sound. I'll suspend the meeting until it's resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u248	It has been repaired again thanks to our technical staff and support. I give the floor to the Prime Minister. Perhaps he can repeat his brief introduction and I shall give the floor to Mr Wilders. Then we also know a little about the context that Mr Wilders is going to respond to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u249	Mr. Chairman. In one sentence, the core of my opening argument is............................................................................................................................................................. It is also not proportional to just maintain the 1.5 meters. Then the question of proportionality of the 1.5 metres, but also to compensate for the risks, comes the widespread introduction of the corona pass. We believe that this is proportional. I just tried to illustrate that by using the terraces. I have just taken this sensitive issue because there are different views on it. I heard it in the Chamber, and I'm sure we'll discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u250	Mr. Chairman. I'm asking the Prime Minister: are you sure the cameras are working again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u251	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u252	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u253	Then there's my next comment. I would like to remind the Prime Minister that what he has done with the entry of the corona pass cannot be done for various reasons. First of all, you are expelled and it is actually illegal what you do with sensitive new issues. I refer to the Professor of Parliamentary History, Mr Joop van den Berg, who says that a outgoing cabinet is still formally competent to take decisions, but that it is the Lower House that determines the limits and that the cabinet must, above all, take serious account of the place of the opposition. In other words, that goes beyond controversial or non-controversial. This professor says that you should be reluctant when you are expelled and a large part of the opposition disagrees with you. The professor says that there is a certain duty of restraint, especially if the opposition is against something in large numbers. That last part in my own words. So I don't think you should have done that. You're a missionary. You're no longer a missionary for nine months. After the elections, there was no new cabinet. You have no mandate from the electorate, at least not as a cabinet. So you can't do that. I'd like you to reflect on it, because it's more than just babysitting the store, and it's not dealing with a crisis or anything. We're not exactly in a crisis situation. The other points, such as the 1.5 meters, are also abolished. So there's no constitutional reason to do this right now. A second reason is that I have also told my colleague in the VVD that motions have been adopted by the Chamber, by myself and by Mr Azarkan, I am always saying to Mr Kuzu, but it was Mr Azarkan of the DENK Group, who say 'we do not want an urge'. I believe that there is no one here in the Chamber who disputes that what you are proposing with these corona passes is at least a form of urge. So I'd like an answer. Why did you do it? This is illegal under state law. You have two motions from the Chamber that you, certainly as a outgoing cabinet, cannot put down next to you. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u254	The Minister of Health would say: the virus is not missionary. Actually, that's true. We are still faced with an extremely dangerous situation and, if we do it wrong, with major risks in health care. Two is this: we explicitly said when the cabinet was decommissioned that the cabinet, in addition to representing all the matters needed in the interests of the Kingdom of Germany, I thought that the wording was similar to that in the case of decommissioning in two areas. The first is the follow-up to the terrible affair with the childcare allowance and the second is the fight against the corona virus. Then to the content: I do not agree with that. I really don't agree. Besides having a vaccine or vaccine. having been through the disease, is the alternative that one can enter using tests. Then it is not that we are creating a division in society. That's not what we're doing. We are trying to ensure that there is a balance between all interests in the country, that everyone can still go anywhere and that we protect the vulnerable as much as possible. But above all, through this combination of measures, we are trying to ensure that care is not overloaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u255	I'm getting a little tired of it. It's like some kind of VVD virus: I'm not getting an answer to my question again. This was a reaction to something I didn't ask for at all. You can say that you intended not to allow Corona to be a missionary, but that doesn't make it legal. That doesn't make it legal! I can also say that I think that I can run a red light in future, but that doesn't make it legal. The question of legality is as follows: as a outgoing cabinet, you have a duty of restraint under the law of the state and you must take into account a large part of what the opposition finds in the Chamber. That's about the rule. You heard the room today. I do not know if there is a majority in favour, but at least a very large part of the opposition has doubts even within the coalition there are parties with doubts about that coronapas. That means you're just going too far in missionary status. You shouldn't do that. I want you to give a serious reaction to that, not "we said we'd do it," because that doesn't make it legal. Secondly, I find it regrettable that I have to repeat it again; it simply goes from my time, from your time, and from our time, I have pointed out those motions, the motions that say: no urge. At the moment you say "yes, you can't go to that bar, that restaurant, that theater and that sports competition if you're either vaccinated or you've been pricked," then people who have to be pricked three or four times a week because of their busy social agenda or sports agenda, will be driven to that prick bus. That's urge. At least that's an urge. That motion of a missionary chamber may not be placed next to you as a missionary cabinet. So you are wrong twice, and I would like to have a serious reaction to that twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u256	I would ask the Prime Minister to really focus on Mr Wilders' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u257	That's what I was trying to do, and that's the answer. In addition, I would like to say that, of course, there is also ordinary legislation adopted by the Chamber. There is the temporary law measures to combat the coronavirus and there is the law on the corona pass. These are all laws that have been passed lately and which, of course, the Cabinet is completing. That's our job, too. There's no other way. We must, of course, continue to fight the corona. It would also be strange to say: we are expelled; there is now a new phase in the state of the virus, but we leave all the measures as they are. This means, for example, that a lot of people who are fully vaccinated still face the 1.5 metres in all kinds of places. So you're looking for a balance, precisely because of the importance of proportionality. You are looking for the balance between whether you can still maintain the one and a half meter measure, we think not, given the state of the virus.... and the question what should be the opposite. That is also the job of a outgoing cabinet. I'm gonna keep that real. I also insist that it's not an urge or a compulsion. We are very much in favour of more people being vaccinated, but we do not do so in this way, with this measure. That's not the policy. It may be a side effect of this measure, but it is not the purpose of this measure. Hugo de Jonge will deal with that later. We are taking a whole series of measures to stimulate vaccination, but this is not one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u258	Finally, on this point. Look, I think it's illegal because, again, you're supposed to respect restraint. Retention does not mean that you can just about introduce the most far-reaching measure you have taken over the last year and a half. I think that, besides curfew, this is perhaps the most far-reaching measure, which, indeed, colleagues have already said, will damage the confidence of many people in the government. People will find it unacceptable that, while they have good reasons not to be vaccinated, they will not get into half of public life if they do not want to be tested three times a week. That is a huge step forward. You cannot deny that this is a far-reaching measure, and it does not fit in with what the professor calls "the duty of restraint." So it's illegal, and I hope people just don't follow your rules. I have never said that before, but I am saying it now, with a outgoing cabinet illegally taking such measures: I hope it will not be enforced. Also a big, fat plume for all those catering bosses when they raise their middle finger against this policy. I hope they do. And I say to you... yes, you may respond immediately, but now I am speaking! I say to you, Prime Minister, no matter what I said to your colleague from the VVD: this is aliberal. You shut people down, you divide society for nothing. The crisis is over. You are wrong, and I would like the Chamber to adopt my motion not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u259	Mr President, perhaps you will allow me to put one question to Mr Wilders, just to understand what he is saying. This is not a debate trick, but I want it sincerely. Does Mr Wilders say: let the 1.5 meters stand? Can I ask him that? Is that what he's suggesting? Keep the package the way it is now. Is that what he's saying? I'm asking him... Now don't be annoyed, Mr. Wilders. Wait a minute. Now I have the floor. I ask you, you, honestly, do you say "keep the measures as they are now"? But if you say, "take off the 1.5 metres, but I cannot agree with what is necessary to do so safely, namely to introduce the corona ticket more broadly," then we really disagree. I'm just asking very sincerely: do you say "just leave the 1.5 meters in position"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u260	I am saying that is lame, because last time the Prime Minister was in mid-August it was in the debate in which we tabled a motion to abolish all the measures. So do not come to me with the question of whether I want to abolish the 1.5 metres. No, I want to abolish all the measures, because we no longer have a corona crisis at the moment. That's what I want, Mr. Prime Minister. You have to stop doing that! You shouldn't say we're going... In fact, there is a reluctance to do so. The reservations are not about abolishing the measures, but about new policies, new measures. To introduce this coronapas, which means that so many people are cut off from public life, is, I think, one of the most far-reaching measures that you, as Prime Minister, have coordinated in the corona crisis. You can't, because you're a missionary. The voter has to judge that first. You can't do that, because that's not reluctant. You also have room motions on your pants that say you can't do that. So you're more illegal than you are illegally engaged in your policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u261	But then Mr Paternotte was absolutely right in his interruption with Wilders in his first term. The facts are there the way they are. Right now, 200 people are in the hospital, Mr. Wilders. Right now, we're dealing with a reproduction factor of 1. Big numbers are still getting infected every day. There is a huge risk if you abolish the 1.5 meters now, but do not combine this with the wider entry of the corona pass. All the experts in the OMT also say that. We are not introducing this measure because we like it. We prefer to do this as short as possible and we would like to get rid of it soon. But there's too much risk now if you do that. And then, I say to Mr Wilders, it's very easy. He says, "Let go of the five feet." So he's taking a big risk in health care. Take a look at what Diederik Gommers said about it this week. What we are doing, he already thought was a risk, while the OMT opinion on that point simply suggests it. The OMT says that releasing the 1.5 meter epidemiological distance standard is only possible if the corona access card is widely introduced in risky settings. That's what it says. Why is that? Because of their concern for us too, the 1.8 million people in much too short a time lead to the arrival on the intensivecarebeds. As a result, people who come to the hospital for other problems cannot be helped properly, because then someone who threatens to choke on corona always comes first. That's the risk. Of course, we risked that before. It is irresponsible, I say to Mr Wilders to argue in favour of releasing the 1.5 metres. Above all, you must not take these mitigating measures any further. That's really not wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u262	I would like to give Mr Wilders a chance, because every time you address Mr Wilders directly. I shall then give the floor to Mrs van den Berg and to a number of people who are also waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u263	Sure, but if he speaks to me, I'll come back here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u264	Sure. That's why I'm giving you the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u265	You know what's irresponsible? What is irresponsible is to introduce a division into society when the crisis is over. That's what you do. Don't touch Mr. Gommers. That's the guy who's on television every day with his nose on, and I know what's going on. I've heard him and others of his kind say it ten times. They said, "Look at Zandvoort. It can't be. Impossible! We're getting a boom of new infections and infections." What did RIVM say on their website this week or last week? "We haven't seen anything of an increase in infections." Don't let it scare you like that. Those great scholars aren't always right either. Do you know what the facts are? The facts are that you and your health minister, us and the Dutch people, have told us that the occupation would be on ice for the measures. Well, there are now 200. In theory, code black won't be in sight for the next ten years. Let's hope it stays that way. Code black isn't in sight for the time being. If the time comes, if it comes to that again, you will know that the PVV does not run away from responsibilities. However, that is not the case now. There's 200 now. 95% of people have antibodies. Almost 85% of the people have been pricked. So to introduce new, the most far-reaching, measures now, is really... Mr. Prime Minister, you're irresponsible, not me. You're gonna have to step down. You must let go of the power. You must give the Netherlands back its freedom, because if it is up to you, we will still have measures in ten years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u266	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party and then to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u267	The Prime Minister started with the outdoor terraces and basically set them the same as the indoor horeca. You know it's not that you're free outside, that you couldn't get an infection, but after 1.5 years, we all know that the probability of this is considerably less than inside. I would like to know from the Prime Minister why he says in the proposal: you should also have that corona ticket for the outdoor terraces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u268	Yes, there are a number of reasons for that. In itself, I understand the question. Of course you think at the terraces: is that necessary? I think it's wise. Here's what I'm gonna do. The terraces are often arranged as Mrs Van den Berg and I eat a cake there, but at some point there is another audience who will also have a drink. It'll be more crowded, more chaotic. That's the first risk. On top of that, we are already asking a great deal about the enforcement of this directive if we cut parts out of a single package. It must be as clear as possible. There is also the practical side of the matter. If you are sitting on the terrace without having to show that QR code and you have to go to the bathroom or pay for it, then the CTB must be shown at the entrance. That's what makes it difficult. It's gonna rain and everyone's gonna run in from the terrace and want to sit inside. So we really don't think it's wise. For example, if you were to say that for the toilet visit you would release the corona admission ticket, which might also be possible, then the situation is that you de facto no longer have CTB in the catering industry. So we don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u269	First of all, it is my experience that public toilets have been realized on many squares in the meantime, precisely because we all know that it is easier outside. Moreover, I think all the municipalities have allowed the terraces to be more extensive, so there is really much more space. It would, of course, be ten times easier for people who just want to have a cup of coffee, or a drink at night. Also looking at the basis of support in society, we as CDA think it is important to really let go of that for the outdoor terraces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u270	I don't think we agree on that. None of that is a disaster, but we do not agree on that. We really think it would be wise not to cut out the outdoor terraces for the reasons I mentioned. I also honestly say that these are not, of course, black and white discussions. It's not like one or the other is 100% right. It is, of course, the misery with the package of measures that you have, of course, been trying for a year and a half in a society with all kinds of traditions and customs to impose restrictive things, sometimes difficult to describe precisely the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u271	I would like to take a look at Mr Van Haga to see if it is all right for Mrs Kuik to go first, because I think she wants to respond to this last point. That is good, and thank you very much, Mrs Van Esch. Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u272	There's no such thing as a hundred percent safe. If you had looked deep into my heart, I would have said, leave it as it is for another month. But that ship is gone, so you'll see what you do for the visitors, the entrepreneurs and the feasibility. Then I do look at the terraces and I say: take the outside air off. That's not unique either. From my own experience: I was in Riga last summer. There you could just sit on terraces and go to the toilet. But the moment you want to order or sit inside, you show your QR code. So it is not impossible and nothing is completely safe, but let us not just stare blindly at the examples we see abroad, as in France. There are also really other countries, countries that exclude their terraces. I hope that the Prime Minister will acknowledge this and know that I will therefore also put forward a proposal to separate that outdoor air from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u273	Let us then wait and see what we can do about it. If you don't, you're gonna get a repeat of your point of view. I think it would be a good idea to see what the proposal is going to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u274	I wanted to come back to the words I just heard this Prime Minister say: I do not think the coronapas is a vaccination urge. The Health Council said in February: the coronapas is a far-reaching form of vaccination urge. I wonder if the Prime Minister will not agree with the Health Council, which indicates that he has a different view.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u275	On this point, on the whole ethical consideration, the Minister of VWS comes back so comprehensively, in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u276	Yes, but I find it disturbing when I hear this Prime Minister saying: I do not think the coronapas is a form of vaccination urge. With that, he literally says what he thinks and there are scientists, among others at the Health Council, who think otherwise. I'd like to hear this from the Prime Minister. He even said literally, quite clearly, that he doesn't think so. Do you not agree with the Health Council, which says that this coronapas is indeed a far-reaching form of vaccination? That's a very simple question with a yes-no answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u277	I object to the words compulsion and urge. Let me start with that, that's one. Point two is that there is an alternative to this approach. The third point is that the Minister of the United States of America is addressing it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u278	Well, as far as we're concerned, all the measures go straight out the window. We will also co-sign Mr Wilders' motion to at least get that coronapas off. But I was surprised that the Prime Minister just said that the underlying motivation for this was that the ic-beds would be overloaded and that there would have to be scaled down again. But if you look at how many people already have antibodies against corona and you're just counting on the RIVM figures I've asked that question and I'm going to ask it again, which I'm sure you're prepared for, how many 50-plussers are gonna be on the ice if we all get sick in one go, which of course is a myth?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u279	The exact figures are reflected in Minister De Jonge's contribution, but I'll tell you something else. That's just the story of the Outbreak Management Team. That says at the moment: there has been a continuous influx of patients over the past six weeks and the reproductive number fluctuates around 1. The seven-day average is now five weeks that around 60 people per day are admitted to hospitals. The ic-recordings fluctuate around 15, between 12.1 and 17.6. You can actually see it's constantly over 200 beds in the hospitals. In all these beds there are people with corona and that means that behind these stable figures there is a situation with pressure on the care chain and pressure on the employees in the care. That pressure is huge! It is huge and that is when these relaxations are yet to take place. The other factors that could have a further impact on the situation in this autumn are, first of all, the extent to which the transmission of the virus is inhibited by vaccination. We don't know all about that yet. We also don't know exactly how we're going to end up with that vaccination rate. Nor do we know exactly what people's behaviour will be with regard to compliance with the measures and, in particular, with regard to the follow-up of the opinions. We still have the risk, even now, of the introduction of the virus by returning travellers. We're going on the wrong season. The seasonal effect is coming again. We don't know exactly what the situation is with the reduction of antibodies. Fortunately, we don't have any clues at the moment, but the last thing you'd want to do is virus mutations that could escape the accumulated immunity. So it's not like we have a carefree property here with all of us. It's a real risk. You can let go of that five feet now, and that's what the OMT is telling us right now. I really think they have come up with convincing arguments for that. But that must be combined with sensible measures in the near future, for example, to ensure that the discotheques, unfortunately, remain closed. Unfortunately, there will have to be restrictions on the rooms, inside, where people are not replaced. Unfortunately, however, we will also have to introduce a wide range of corona admissions. That's really wise, and if you don't, you're taking too big a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u280	I think there is then a mistake in thinking, because immunity against corona..... the percentage of antibodies.................................................................................................................................................... Over 70 years of age, 99% of people have antibodies. If you're going through that, then... That is why I specifically asked about the figures for people over 50 years of age. A very large proportion of this has already been vaccinated, so those people have antibodies or have already experienced the disease. You figure that out, you get to 803 people. Of course, that's just a number and it must be 800, 900 or 1,000, because a margin of error is everywhere. So they would all get sick at the same time, but that is not going to happen at all! In the meantime, you have failed to scale up the number of ic-beds in the last year and a half. But even under the condition of the 1,100, those who have now, there is certainly no reason to be afraid. That even applies to the situation with the flu that is coming. Flu is something else, of course, but similar. This dystopian measure is certainly far too far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u281	We're dealing with 1.8 million people who haven't been vaccinated, and the risk of that leading to 3,200 to 3,400 recordings on our intensive care beds. The task we all have is to ensure that this does not happen in too short a time. The risk is very high that these 1.8 million people will become ill, at least most of them. I don't want to, no one wants to, but that may be the result of being unvaccined. But what you don't want is that it happens at such a rate that those 2,200 to 3,400 people end up in intensive care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u282	I have four or five interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u283	Everyone has six questions or comments and you have had two. So you have two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u284	Okay. Well, I'll just stand there for a little while. I remember the little interrupting debate we had about click-and-collect a year ago, I think. Then I asked why you chose those four hours. Then you said: I just think that a civil servant struck the air and thought "it's a part of the day." Actually, there was no justification underneath. This is the case with every measure being introduced. I'm really trying to figure that out, but I can't. The stupidity and the arbitrariness in the policy are truly repulsive. I get the same feeling at those closing times. Closing times are now maintained at 12:00 in the morning. Why did you do that? You've always said... It's also in all those OMT opinions. The OMT advised that, because you said it yourself when the music goes out after midnight, people get too close to each other. This would make it more difficult for people to adhere to the basic rule of 1.5 meters away. That was after 12:00. But that five-footer's off now. What's the basis for the 00.00 hours?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u285	You can also see this in the advice of the Outbreak Management Team, namely: do it step by step. If you let go of everything now, so the 1.5 meters and then all the restrictions, and in return, not even, as some here suggest, the proportionate necessary measure of the wider introduction of the corona access ticket, then you take too much risk. What's the job we have? Ensure that the 2,200 to 3,400 people assumed to end up in intensive care are spread so as not to compromise normal, other care. That's what we're doing here. In the coming weeks and months, therefore, we are sending out very strongly how things are going in hospitals, in such a way that we spread the risk over a longer period of time. That's against the backdrop of the fact that I've just mentioned it... that you know you're not going into the good season and you're also running a number of other risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u286	This is bullshit. If that's what the Prime Minister wants, there'll be a coronapas. Then everyone inside is just safe. Then the argument was that after 00.00 hours you were so drunk that you couldn't maintain the 1.5 meters, but the one-and-a-half meter measure is off. So you are not going to comment on the fact that the justification of the twelve-hour measure has disappeared. I'd like to hear that from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u287	Why we can't let go of everything is because you can't do everything at once. That is also in line with the OMT opinion. Take, for example, the 75%. That was two thirds. Would you put the pop temples, the Paradiso's of this world, at 100% there aren't people there, but of course they're there; they're mixed up and enjoy a beautiful pop concert, a rock band or wherever they're going, that's too big a risk. Two-thirds was too certain. So we say that it can now go to 75%. Then Mr Van Haga will ask if he can see the justification of that 75%. Of course, it's impossible to give. You do know that you have to do it step by step, that you have to see what the effects are and that you can then take a next step. That has to do with the nighthoreca and the discotheques, which are closed. This also has to do with the 75% restriction in the inner locations where people are not sitting on a chair. You do all these things because you end up trying to prevent you from lying there in the intensive cares already 200 people; that's actually way too much................................................................................................................................................... Around 3,000 ic-recordings are still going to come from too large a group of people who have not been vaccinated. Otherwise, it would mean sending people away who come for hip surgery or other things that might also result in an ic-recording.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u288	It is good that you mention the 75%, because that was indeed my follow-up question. How the hell did you get those two thirds or 75%, partly in the light of the fact that you know that the tilt point is 90%, 95% and that you can only make money? You know this very well, because your colleague spoke to the industry about this. If a civil servant makes something up and says "75%, three-quarters, that's a nice, round number," that's no use to the industry. How then can you take without justification such a round number that is good for no one?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u289	The justification lies in the need to take the measures step by step and not do everything at the same time. It's two thirds now. You're going to 75%. Of course, you hope to go to 100% as soon as possible. I will come back later to how we want to support this sector. We believe that we can do this wisely. I agree with Mr Van Haga that the marginal euro ultimately also determines the profits in this sector, and that, of course, it will be very difficult if we occupy 75%. It is precisely the last 5%, 10%, 15% in which the profits are made. That is what we have to compensate for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u290	Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u291	Cow business. False contradictions, too. We're giving society a coronapas. On the other hand, we are going to lift the one-and-a-half meter measure for everyone. I think that's really fake. It is one group against the other group move and organize a division in society. The Prime Minister just indicated that he does not support the use of the words "force and urge." Last year's discussion in the Chamber, but also in society, is about compulsion and urge. When I look at the chart or chart of the Health Council, we see that we are only one step away from a vaccination obligation, which is then legally imposed. Does the Prime Minister dare to speak here, as we have made countless progress in terms of urge and compulsion, that there will never be a vaccination obligation imposed on people by law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u292	I've said it so many times: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u293	That's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u294	No, there's not gonna be any. It is the answer to your question. "Can you say it won't come?" The answer to that is yes. You know that the Finance Minister always says no, except to ask if he just said no, because then he says yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u295	It is a good thing that the Prime Minister says this, but in the past he has often said things that have come to little effect. So I wonder if that will be changed in the future. Then I'll make another big plate. Where exactly is the Prime Minister's objection to the use of the words "force and urge"? Why isn't he so served by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u296	Because I think it is very important as a liberal, but as a foreman of the cabinet, I am also, of course, trying to speak for the confessional movement and the coalition, as well as for the social democratic movement and the green movement and opposition: I think we live in a country in which personal freedom is very important. I think people make their own choices, and from those choices you want to try to organize in a safe way that everyone can participate in that society in a good way. That you protect the people who are vulnerable, that they do not have to stay at home for fear, that they can also participate as much as possible. That is why we maintain the mouth caps, for example in public transport, at least not on the platforms, but in the tram and in the bus and in the metro. But that is also why we are looking for this balance, where you say: you know, there are now so many people vaccinated that we can now take a next step with letting go of that 1.5 meter. But that's really not without risk if you know that around 3,000 Ice Beds are going to be filled. We know how limited that capacity is. Then you should also be willing to say: people who have not been vaccinated and who have not had the virus, we ask to test themselves now before they enter such spaces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u297	There is, however, an essential difference with the use of mouth caps when this comparison is made. This is about physical integrity. This is about a personal choice where something is injected into your body. This individual responsibility, coupled with individual freedom of choice, is essential in order not to restrict people in their daily lives. Imagine a school class I used the example in the direction of Mr Paternotte with teenagers who are going on school trips or to a theatre or a museum and who make a conscious choice, for whatever reason, not to be vaccinated or to get a cotton swab in their noses every time. Then what are we doing? We shouldn't do that at all, should we? Why are we ruling out kids? Why are we excluding young people? Why are we excluding 1.8 million people, when the Chamber has made clear statements about this in the past? And if you use the argument "we do not want intensive cares to run smoothly," I say that the Chamber has given you countless times the suggestion of increasing the capacity to do so. If the argument is that we have to protect the most vulnerable, I say that it is also the individual responsibility of the vulnerable people to take a vaccine. That freedom of choice is there. I say very clearly that I have also taken a vaccine myself, but I also respect the choice of all the people who deliberately do not choose it. And I do not think that making that distinction is what we need to do, because it is precisely what we have been warning about for a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u298	The choice we are faced with here as directors and as politicians is to try wisely to always find a balance. It is also complicated to explain to the Netherlands at a vaccination rate that is so high that we continue with the 1.5 meters? That means that you can't comfort someone who really needs to be comforted without feeling very guilty or thinking "oh, I don't follow a behavior rule" and that you still impose all kinds of restrictions in the hospitality industry. That's crazy about the vaccination rate, too. So the balance you're looking for is whether it's still proportional to continue with that 1.5 meter..... we think of not.... and what it takes to let go of that, given that there are still risks, already existing and possibly this autumn. For example, we're thinking of the seasonal effects and other effects I just mentioned. Then I think it is proportional to say to the Netherlands that it is necessary to introduce that corona ticket on a wider scale in the face of letting go of 1.5 metres for a while. That doesn't mean at all for people that they're forced to vaccinate. I agree with Mr Kuzu: everyone ultimately decides that for themselves. We encourage it. We tell people that it's wise, that the chances of you getting into the hospital are low, if you get the virus already. The chance of an ic-recording is now 97% smaller if you have been vaccinated. However, in the end it is indeed the choice of people themselves and therefore it is important that there are alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u299	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u300	Mr President, the last one. I realize I'll leave two for the US Secretary of State after that. If, through the President, I say to the Prime Minister, "it is not a duty, people still have freedom of choice to be vaccinated" and you say on the other hand, "we enter a pass, which means that people no longer have access to hospitality, cinemas, theatres and so on," then there is no freedom of choice anymore. You'd force people to move in a certain direction, wouldn't you? Then how can you maintain that there is no urge, no compulsion, and ultimately a duty?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u301	I go back to my previous reaction to this remark, which I understand. There, of course, there are always sensitivities and ethical and social considerations that we have to deal with each other. Let's say you wouldn't do this now, with this high vaccination rate, and you would keep it 1.5 meters, while experts say you wouldn't need it anymore, but you should be willing to ask people who haven't been vaccinated or who haven't been through the disease to test themselves before entering these kinds of occasions. It's not everywhere, but it's in a number of places, more than we did. That's the balance you're looking for. I think that is a fair balance. I think he's proportional, too. Then you can have another discussion about whether or not it should be on terraces, but that is within the main choice. I think that main choice is real. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have answered a lot of questions about proportionality. There was also a question about enforcement. A few things about that. Perhaps I should go straight to the discussion yesterday, which the Minister for Justice and Security had. He had a good meeting with the Security Council. Of course, it's very complicated, because this too is all extra work for the municipality and maintainers. In that consultation it was agreed that it is of course up to the entrepreneurs to check whether visitors have a valid CTB that corresponds to their identity. The municipalities are responsible for monitoring and enforcing entrepreneurs. Failure by the entrepreneur to comply with the obligation of inspection can also really be dealt with. That could be a penalty charge or, in extreme cases, closure. In the event of excesses, boas and police may be called upon. This will be further developed in the coming days with the Security Council and the municipalities. An enforcement arrangement for the enforcement of the CTB is under way. That actually happened in very good consultation with the mayors at the Security Council. There is also additional money, additional support for this, namely 45 million. This has not been made available to the cafés, but it has been made available to the municipalities to check the cafés. And once again, in excesses, there will be a solid administrative procedure. Then there was the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u302	There is one question from Mr Hijink of SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u303	It's about the 45 million that's being made available for enforcement. We are aware that this money is actually going to be used to finance the private security sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u304	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u305	I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if that's true. He says, "Yeah." I wonder why this is chosen, because the police and boas have for a very long time indicated that they have too little capacity to do their job. It is now striking that this measure will benefit almost 50 million people in a sector full of the VVD lobby, where in recent years a network of VVDs has been created to do everything in their power to draw a lot of money for the private sector out of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u306	It is true that you often encounter VVDs somewhere in the security domain. Ferd Grapperhaus was still a member of the CDA the last time I asked him. I think it's crazy, too, but it's still him. Furthermore, of course, you are doing this temporarily. So this is not a structural budget, but it is one-off money. The amount is therefore not structurally available. Municipalities cannot therefore adopt boas on a structural basis. So it makes sense that you use a commercial sector that is available to deliver people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u307	The Prime Minister jokes a bit that incumbent ministers are not yet lobbying for private sectors. If I were a Prime Minister of the VVD, I would be a little more careful to say something about that, given recent developments. But it is true that former executives, for example Ard van der Steur and Teeven, are very committed to more money for private security. And it is quite a coincidence that in this measure to maintain tickets, the money as a whole benefits the private sector, and we are not looking at how we can strengthen the role of the police and boas. The SP has very serious reservations about this. I also find it dubious that it is happening again in this combination with the tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u308	The money that is available is one-off money. You can't put that in structuralally raising budgets for the police. All this must be done, but that is a matter for the budget and the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u309	I say in advance: let me make it clear that my name is under the motion tabled by Mr Wilders. So we don't want that coronapas. But let's say it's a pass. I now understand from the reaction to Mr Hijink's interruption that there will be money for private supervision, and so on. But when I hear it's temporary, something starts tickling at me. If that money goes to the municipalities, you have to hire people there or you have to sign up for it. It's all gonna take time. So before those private supervisors and so on are there, that coronapas is most likely to be abolished again. At least that's what I'm assuming. How does the Prime Minister see that in practice? You can't pull a can of people out of the market in one go tomorrow to supervise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u310	There are companies where people work with the v'tjes. Of course, you can hire those people quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u311	But I think they're qualified people. You didn't just stand there, did you? After all, they are now also working. Or are we, for example, going to lift the security of the House of Representatives and let the people who work for it do things elsewhere in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u312	I hope not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u313	You can't just open a can of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u314	I hope not, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u315	We'll leave the House of Commons safe. But that's how this sector works. It is a security sector that is able to deliver capacity quickly; this is how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u316	Let's talk about enforcement. We often see mayors splashing all over the place, so to speak. The mayor of Amsterdam, although we do know them, calls for a lot of things not to be maintained. I also hear sounds from Twente, where they say "just maintain." It must be clear that the agreements are clear and that the municipalities are going to do the same. I'm a little surprised... September 25th is approaching with raging strides. When will it become clear to the House of Representatives exactly what these agreements are?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u317	Well, what I just said: I'll ask Grapperhaus to send a letter about this if it's written right on paper. But that consultation is taking place. It also took place last night, in a very constructive atmosphere. This will be further developed over the next few days in an enforcement arrangement. I'll ask Grapperhaus to send that to the Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u318	Thank you for that, but I hope that the mayor of Amsterdam and other mayors who are now calling 'we are not going to maintain' will simply continue to maintain.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u319	I suppose so, but mayors are also part of the public debate, so I don't mind them saying what they think at some point. It should be possible. But my experience is that you finally come to a common approach in good consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u320	When can the Chamber see the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u321	I'm gonna check with the officials. I don't have that conversation myself. That's what Grapperhaus does. I think it's gonna be somewhere next week. In the course of next week, it will come to the Chamber, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u322	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u323	Let's see. Then we have also answered a lot of questions about the CTBs on this issue. By the way, De Jonge will be discussing this in a moment, but more along the ethical issues. We've had three quarters, just like the closing time around midnight. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to support for companies. A few things about that. We're trying to see if you can set up a TVL-like arrangement for the nighthoreca for the fourth quarter. We are also going to make a scheme to ensure that for that 75%, those unplaced events, there will be a supplement scheme. That is what is currently being worked on. As soon as the decision has been taken, of course, a letter will also be sent to the Chamber. There is, I understand, also a debate with the troika ministers: Block, Koolmees and Hoekstra. I think it would be good to have that debate further. We're really trying to figure out how to limit the damage as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u324	I was just reading the Volkskrant: in Italy Mr Draghi goes one step further. He can, because his leadership has a lot of support. In contrast, only 30% of respondents here in the Netherlands are positive about the Dutch approach. Then it's about corona. It was 73% once. In addition, only 21% believe that the cabinet is moving in a clear direction. I told you just now, your attitude, your communication, your policy, is swarming, and that's why you lost a lot of support. You lost more than half of the Dutch. What are you going to do about that, I ask through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u325	My impression was, also on the basis of the polls this week, that there is a great deal of support for the approach we are taking here. You see it very consistently in this week's polls: it is said to understand that at such a high vaccination rate you release the 1.5 meters. We also understand, according to those polls, that the majority of the Netherlands says that at the same time you do ask for such a corona admission certificate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u326	I was just talking about leadership and pointing to Merkel and Draghi. Then there'll be a little more concern and take it more seriously. When I say that more than 50% of the Dutch people have lost confidence, I hope that the Prime Minister will take the question seriously, that he wants to get the question understood how he is going to win back those half of the Dutch, both in terms of their head and in terms of their heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u327	I myself am quite finished with that virus and all the measures, so I can imagine that this applies to a lot of people. This is also reflected in the figures in Germany and Italy. I had a long conversation last week in Dresden with Angela Merkel. There the situation is really no different from that in society. We had to work our way in through the screams of the great demonstrations at the beautiful museum to see the restored Vermeer: Letter-reading girl at the open window; you know it. That is not something unique for the Netherlands. I think after a year and a half, everyone's done with it. I think we have finished these debates, too, but we still have to do so. We're not through it yet. I will never stop explaining in the Netherlands why we are doing what we are doing and to have a great deal of understanding for the people who are touching this hugely, for example the entrepreneurs. If there are restrictive measures, I will also be aware of the impact on society or on groups in society. But I think that, even when I talk to Mario in Italy or Angela Merkel in Germany, we all face similar issues. I am glad that we have now reached a point, thanks to the vaccinations, that we can take this step. It is also seen as a very big step abroad. I have looked in the German and British media for a moment: what the Netherlands is doing now is really seen as a very big enlargement. I'm glad we can, but we have to be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u328	The Prime Minister is champion of debate, but not in answers. I asked him very clearly how he wants to regain the 50% that has lost trust. It then arrives with Italy and Germany, where the aid is significantly higher. That is where the enlargement of the corona pass is about to take place, and that is not an issue at all in Italy, except for a few small protests. Here half of the policy is alienated. So I'm asking the Prime Minister again. It's not a debate contest. How are you going to conquer the heads and hearts of half the Dutch you've lost in the last year and a half. I don't think that's gonna happen by saying: I'm done. That pandemic's gonna be in the shape of an endemie for a while. So how are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u329	Next time I go to Dresden with Mrs Merkel, I'll take Mrs Gündoğan with me. Then she will see that that city was converted into a fortress because of the visit of the German chancellor. This also has to do with the question of acceptance in Germany. This is the case in many European countries. We will also always do our best in the Netherlands to explain in peace where we stand, what the facts are and what is needed. We do this, for example, with press conferences and with this kind of debate in the Chamber. We will also always do our best to understand people because of their impact on their lives and to support entrepreneurs who have a major impact on their businesses as well as possible. That is a consistent policy that we have been pursuing for a year and a half. According to Bloomberg, this has led us to a situation in which the Netherlands is not saying it; Bloomberg said it is number two in the world in the fight against corona, after Norway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u330	Well, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u331	Well, read it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u332	...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u333	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u334	I'm gonna finish this. I'm gonna keep doing that. But in the end, Mrs Gündoğan, leadership is also that you can't just steer the polls. That's what I really want to say to her. Leadership is also taking difficult measures. Leadership is also saying to the Netherlands: these are the facts as we see them; it may not be popular, but this is the sensible next step. My experience in the 11 years I have been Prime Minister is that the country that eventually accepts and understands. This also happens in the personal lives of people at home, wherever they have to deal with difficult decisions. They understand that's how this works.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u335	Well, I'll help the Prime Minister get on the road with the answer, to find half the Dutch he's lost a little bit. That could happen by showing interest in the facts. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what is the state of play of the OVV report? The OVV has been working for a year and a half. That report might give us a great deal of inspiration to take our fellow countrymen with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u336	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u337	So what is the state of play, I ask the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u338	Well, Mrs. Gündoğan, if I knew that, it would have been weird. It's an independent institution. So it would be weird if I knew that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u339	Another question in the order "champion debate."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u340	Champion debate? Sorry...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u341	It's like being a leader interested in the facts of your country. If you have not wondered once in the last year and a half about this and whether you can be informed in the interim, I ask through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u342	Mrs Gündoğan, seriously, you can blame me for anything, but this is bullshit. The OVV is an independent club. You would quite rightly have made a motion of censure to me if I had reported here that I had been in contact with the OVV to ask what is going on with the investigation. You can't do that, can you? What kind of weird question is that? And another thing. I'll tell you that, Mrs. Gündoğan. This job of mine is all about leadership, namely making difficult decisions, facing the facts, telling the Netherlands what's going on and trying to get support for your policy. That's what Hugo de Jonge and I have been doing for a year and a half. That goes with falling and getting up. We make mistakes and admit them. We also see mistakes in other countries, but I do not hide behind them. We, too, make mistakes. Look at June 26th. That's a big mistake. We've fixed it. We will continue to make mistakes in the future. We don't know everything. We're trying to make conscientious policies. The Netherlands is always willing, I think, to forgive a mistake. But there is one thing that the Netherlands will never forgive, and that is not making decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u343	It's gonna be a little tickle. They are two different things: whether you interfere with the content of a report and whether you are interested in the progress of a report. I think I have learned very well that these are two different concepts. I repeat my question: is there any interest of the Prime Minister in these facts and progress, which will allow policy to be better steered, so that support for them can be brought back from 21% to 73%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u344	Yeah, but not at the O.V.V., because it's independent. Mrs Gündoğan was right to give me a motion of censure if I did so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u345	I think the OMT and the RIVM are also independent, but you also consult them regularly. I may be new to this, but this just doesn't seem logical to me. So let me ask you again: where is the OVV report?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u346	Again, the Security Research Council is conducting independent investigations. With all due respect, I can't do that, can I? Surely the government can't call the O.V.V. to ask what's going on with their investigation? I can't. At some point they come up with their opinion on the policy. I have an interrogation myself sometime in the next few weeks. A lot of players around the corona crisis are being questioned. I thought they're now working on the first phase, until September 1st last year. That is at least the question I have been asked to prepare myself, so I can tell you that. I've been asked if I can talk to them about the corona control in the first few months, so that's until September 1st. In my view, then, their plan is "but I'm not sure; I'm not their spokesperson "to come out with it somewhere in October." But of course we also have other organisations that we understand with: of course the OMT and RIVM. We also try to take note of the Red Team's views. We try to take note of what all experts say in every talk show in the Netherlands and international reports. So you're trying to get feedback from all sides. What works in other countries? What works here? What can we improve in policy? But Mrs Gündoğan is wearing very big pants about leadership in my direction. At the core, I think leadership is, because she asked me, willing to look the facts straight in the eye and make analyses of what needs to be done and to tell the Netherlands quite honestly, even if it is not a nice message. My experience is that in the end, given these facts and by speaking about them as openly as possible, the Netherlands is prepared to go along with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u347	Finally, Mrs Güntoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u348	Finally, because we're not gonna get out of this. I am going to submit my motion on behalf of Mr Omtzigt in order to find out more about the OVV report and about the interim findings.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u349	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u350	I just wanted to come back to the support package the Prime Minister was talking about. There's gonna be another note about the details. But here too, time is running out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u351	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u352	The entrepreneurs are in uncertainty. They want to know what they're up to. It's just September 25th and it's just October 1st. It was already known in the summer that this should be looked at. So I am curious when the letter on support for entrepreneurs will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u353	Before the end of the debate, I will come up with a final and final answer to this question. Perhaps that is still in this period, if it is given to me now. The officials are listening. If not, the answer comes in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u354	Let's see if that's gonna be fast enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u355	Perhaps I could make one suggestion to Mrs Gündoğan if she makes a motion. I think it would be better, then, to have the request to the OVV be a request to the Chamber. I can't, so I definitely have to discourage that motion. But she might be able to ask the Chamber to check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u356	That's a very nice tip, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u357	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions about the care itself. I'm gonna say a few things about that. The point about the salaries in the care came from the corner of the SP in first term. I must say that we find it extremely complicated for this outgoing cabinet to take far-reaching decisions of this kind. We think it should really be a matter of a formation and of a subsequent cabinet. We are, of course, looking not only at the generic situation of the salaries in the care sector, but also at what is needed more specifically to allow people there to have the pleasure of working. We'll see what it takes to make sure, regardless of money, that people don't get lost in the hierarchy, that they're appreciated in their craftsmanship and that they can be part of decision-making processes in hospitals and healthcare institutions. So, as far as we are concerned, when it comes to the large sums, it is ultimately really up to a new cabinet. By the way, I would like to add that 6 billion has gone to healthcare salaries over the years 2018 to 2021. Then you talk about about about 3% a year structuralally. There are similar oval contributions for 2022. Ova is that covenant based on which the care gets money for salaries. This will then provide a wage allocation of around 2.5% in 2022. With this oval system, which provides money for the provision of salaries, very good collective agreements have been concluded. For example, hospitals: there is an increase of 5% as of 1 January 2020 and 3% as of 1 January 2021. With this covenant, the social partners can follow up the ESC's advice by focusing more on middle groups rather than a generic wage increase. There's a lot of pain there. Then higher wages and more growth are possible. That is also in the offer of the Dutch Federation of University Medical Centres. So much is possible in this respect. But if there's any extra stuff on top of that, I really think that's a matter for formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u358	The Minister of Health himself sent a letter to the Chamber, in which he said what the ESC had also investigated: salaries in the care sector have been between 6% and 9% behind other salaries for 20 years, of people working in the private sector, for example. I repeat: 6% to 9% lag, for 20 years. I just can't get my head around the fact that here, even when it comes to tickets, the millions and billions are blowing your brains out. It's all possible. But about the people in the care sector, who have been under enormous pressure for a year and a half, and even before, for a year and a half, can't a outgoing cabinet decide? What kind of bullshit is that? Isn't that bullshit if you can spend billions on bullshit tests, other systems and commercial test certificates? All that can be done, but nothing can be arranged for the people who do the work and on whom we have been leaning very heavily for a year and a half. You can't explain that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u359	I understand that question, of course. I also think it is right that we look very critically at the salaries in healthcare together. The first thing I wanted to say here is that nothing has happened in recent years. These are significant wage increases, often higher than in other sectors. This does not alter the fact that there may be a need for more to be done, especially for certain health care groups. But we are talking about very large amounts of money. Those are structural amounts. They're different from the expenditure on the fight against corona. Those are one-off expenses; we were just talking about checking whether cafés adhere to asking for a corona ticket. These are really structural expenditures of a very large size, and they really are a structural burden on the budget. This calls for a broader political balance. I think it is really wise for it to be made in the context of the formation. That's where you make that kind of broader considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u360	There's a risk of a drain in the care system. A large proportion of the people who have just started care, almost 40%, have left within two years. Those are people who choose a job in health care. We want to keep it, but we're gonna get rid of it and leave in two years. The problems are enormous. I already mentioned them later. The capacity on the ic is now lower than before the corona crisis. The outflow's huge. Of course, a lot of people choose a job in care, but the outflow remains immensely large. Something must be done there. The Prime Minister and the various ministers who have been working on this in recent years are delaying, delaying, delaying. We can no longer afford that. Look, I'm telling you the truth: if the cabinet isn't going to do it, we're going to have to settle this as a Chamber. We are now asking for 600 million. That's not a huge amount of money. It's just a start. I really want to emphasise how small it is that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health do not even want to support that first small step. I really think that's a dagger sting in the back of the people who have been working so hard for us for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u361	I really think this is a bit of flat rhetoric. That is what I would like to say to Mr Hijink, whom I appreciate very much. I think it's really a theme that we have to look at together. Of course, it is not true that there has not been a significant increase in wages in health care in recent years. It has been about 3% structural per year. It is really higher than in many other sectors, but that can still lead to discussion about more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u362	Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u363	One final point, Mr President. I assume that Mr Hijink's 600 million is referring to variant 3 of the letter of 3 September. That's structuralally 1.15 billion. I'd like to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u364	Mrs Bikker, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u365	I understand very well that the Prime Minister is referring to the formation. I think that's actually the most logical place to take care of these things. That's what I thought as a new MP. Then I thought: well, there is a new cabinet towards September and that can be arranged for the care. Unfortunately, however, we do not need to evaluate it here. At the moment, it is not as far as a new cabinet is concerned that it can fill in this Prince's Day as a missionary cabinet. And what happened just before the summer? A majority of this Chamber has adopted a motion which states: it is logical that you look at the whole of the care in the formation and also take the SER advice further, but please, take a first step. In fact, I think I can really ask the Prime Minister how he sees that first step. With the cover that Mr Hijink and I have mentioned, the 1.15 billion is also covered in structural terms. So that's not where the problem is. People are running away now, and the problem is big for people now. This is evident from the analysis of the ESC and the cabinet endorses that. The cabinet has already sent the scenarios to the Chamber. Why wait so that next year's care doesn't notice a raise, which has been advised? I would really like to ask the Prime Minister to reflect on this, because he is actually getting a very open hand to tackle this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u366	Yes. I appreciate that, Mrs. Bikker, of course. But I would like to make a few comments. When you read the reports on working in health care, you can see that pay is of course very relevant. But again, it's not like those salaries didn't go up. They have increased by 3% per year in structural terms. There may need to be more, but that really seems to me to be a broader political issue. If you're really going to look at why people stop in care... When I visit the care and in the conversations that I have there, sometimes it's about the salary, but it's very often about other things: is there a nurse at the top of the hospital who can think with it about policy, how much hierarchy is here, do I know in the morning when I go to the hospital or the nursing home where I come to be, do I regularly see the same patients or am I always placed in other departments, am I seen as a person or am I a number? There are great differences between hospitals and nursing homes in terms of the quality of the climate in which people work, and this has a huge impact on whether or not people continue to work there. This is also the case in education and the police. It's not just a matter of money. The second point is that the coverage proposed by SP and ChristenUnion, as I understand it, is really a very fundamental choice. Indeed, this coverage is the proposal to cover high wages by increasing corporate tax. That choice really does not relate to the missionary status of a cabinet. That is also because the amounts involved are so large. If it were 50 or 100 million, you could still do it as a sitting, outgoing cabinet. Then you must also hope that those who say that as a missionary cabinet you can do nothing more, don't get angry. Then you could still do it, but it's very large amounts. In addition, the coverage for higher expenditure under the Health Insurance Act is not appropriate. There are also some very fundamental reservations about this coverage, regardless of the fundamental question of whether a outgoing cabinet can still decide to increase corporate tax. But I won't completely spell that out here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u367	Yes, but that could of course be the subject of a Chamber ruling, and that could also be asked by a outgoing cabinet. In that sense, I appreciate the modesty of the Prime Minister, of course, at all times, and I also appreciate his leadership for getting up when it's difficult. It's hard here. There is now a concrete offer from the parties to say: let us see how we can take that step. I fully endorse what the Prime Minister says, namely that much more is needed in the care to take long-term structural steps. But even the report by the WRR which was published yesterday, on the structural difficulties that there will be in the care sector and on which we will be discussing many more issues in this Chamber, was very clear about one thing: the people who are the hands on the bed, the ordinary nurses and the ordinary caregivers in the elderly sector deserve too little structuralally. This causes the staff shortage to be too high and people to run away. I would really like to ask the Prime Minister: don't throw this away because you're a missionary or because you don't think that coverage is very appealing to you. See here an open hand to exactly direction Prinsjesdag...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u368	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u369	... really a significant step for these people to take, because that is very much needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u370	I appreciate that very much, but I also hope that Mrs Bikker understands that raising the Vpb really requires a very fundamental decision. That's something I find really complicated for a missionary cabinet. So I appreciate it. Mrs Bikker knows that when she says something, I always think more about it, even after such a debate. But I don't want to get the hopes right here that it'll be settled tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u371	Thank you. If there were such a request from the Chamber, I assume the Cabinet will take it. In any case, there is the request from the Chamber to take a step. I'd really like to give that to the cabinet in the direction of Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u372	Thank you. Finally, I would like to say something about bringing out our plans. I think that the VWS Minister has a lot to do here too. It is, of course, important that if we decide something that comes out quickly, but please do so in a structured way. I suppose that's what's known, and I assume that's what we share. That's what I do with a press conference and a letter to the Chamber. It's just that that letter to the Chamber is very thick. So that always takes a few hours to complete it. So we have now found the following method: a press conference and then a letter to the Chamber very soon. What is, of course, extremely annoying is those leaks. I'm trying to do everything I can to prevent it. What you see is that a lot of people are involved in decision-making. Those are members of the cabinet. It's my experience that civil servants never really leak. I mean that honestly, that's not to kiss them up, but politicians do. So that could also be members of the cabinet. I do not have any hard leads to this, but the fact is that we also talk about it with a lot of other people, of course. That is what we are doing to drivers in the country, from all kinds of sectors, to those who do not even have to be on purpose, perhaps also to those who are involved in the decision-making process. So we're doing our best, but it's just not working enough to keep the whole thing completely closed. And that specific point of the five minutes available for each debate on the subject. That is, of course, a matter for the Chamber. Of course, we are always willing to be here longer. So that's not what it's gonna be about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u373	I thank the outgoing Prime Minister for the answers, but I also find it a little easy. In the last year and a half we notice that things are coming out. I get the feeling that sometimes people try to drop something in society and see how people react. If necessary, the plans may be adapted accordingly. And then I hear the outgoing Prime Minister say that it happens accidentally, but I sometimes ask myself that honestly. I would like to ask him what he is going to do to ensure that this does not happen again, especially when it comes to members of the cabinet. The outgoing Prime Minister is still responsible for this. What is he going to do now to ensure that information from his cabinet no longer comes to journalists before we have received it as a Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u374	I consider this debate and this discussion to be an encouragement to me to raise this again. I can't guarantee that's gonna pay off. I can't guarantee that. I'll be honest with you about that. There is no point in me selling Mrs Westerveld tubers for lemons here. I can tell her that this encourages me to discuss it again, with more energy than I already did. Once again, I am convinced of one thing in The Hague, namely that officials are never the cause of leakages. They're politicians. It is true that a large number of directors are consulted in the run-up to press conferences to ensure that there too the feasibility and acceptance of measures are assessed. It's not like they're gonna leak on purpose. We ask everyone to be very discreet. But it is true that at some point a lot of people know elements of decision-making. That could be an explanation. But I'm afraid it can't be ruled out that it's from our own team. Again, I feel very encouraged to continue the fight against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u375	Yes, and I'm very sorry about that. I also said in my speech that this is about trust and that we must have confidence in each other. I find it very worrying, but it also bothers me, that sometimes I have to call a journalist to ask what the cabinet plans are now, because they know it before we do. I would like to urge the outgoing Prime Minister to really discuss this on his team, especially if it is assumed that it is someone in the cabinet because officials are not leaking. I would ask him to ensure that this does not happen again next time, precisely because we need to have that debate here. People in society get shreds of information and sometimes base their own story on it and we get all kinds of questions from worried people about the measures. I will not be able to answer them, because we do not have the complete package of information. I believe that we, as a Chamber, are lagging behind. I sincerely believe that we have not been able to conduct the debate we should be having here, with honest considerations, with good justification, in this way, for quite some time. In fact, as a Chamber, we should have made a much bigger point of this before.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u376	I didn't say that I assume it's from my own team, but I can't rule it out. That's something else. But that doesn't change what Mrs Westerveld says. I feel very supportive in this fight and continue with it. I can say that, but I cannot give an outcome guarantee, only a maximum effort obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u377	I would like to support Mrs Westerveld in her efforts on this subject. I myself spoke to the Prime Minister and sent a letter following the leaking of the Prince's Day papers. I think it is very good that we, as a Chamber, should look again at how we deal with the corona debates. That's for the committee. Let me take a look at Mr Paternotte of D66 for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u378	Some time ago, the Prime Minister was right to say to Mr Wilders: look at the OMT opinion and the three scenarios in it. The scenario the cabinet now chooses is the most acute one, according to the experts the most risky one. The question is: what is what they call plan B in England, the circuit breaker? The experts there told the British Government that 2,000 to 7,000 hospitalisations would be real in a few weeks' time. They don't work with corona tickets. They're more at risk there. What will happen if we end up in the same scenario? I see on a roadmap group size, opening hours, homework, all things that reminiscent of a lockdown. We don't want that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u379	The VWS Minister has just admitted that his initial comments will be on addressing this issue. That means that Mr Paternotte does not have to repeat that question. It has been noted and Mr De Jonge is about to start replying.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u380	Then let's get on with the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u381	Exactly. I wish I had.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u382	Before we proceed, I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes. So we can clean up for a while. Then we will continue the debate until 6:45 p.m. Then we'll have a dinner break until 7:45. Then we will vote and then we will proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u383	I shall reopen the sitting at the request of my fellow Members. The next item is the first term of office of the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u384	Thank you, Mr President. The Prime Minister has already answered a large number of questions. That's why I think it could be a lot shorter for me. I understand the ambition is to be ready for dinner break with the first term of office. I'm gonna try to do everything I can myself. I will start with a number of questions about the approach for this autumn, as we take this big step. After that, I have some questions about the corona pass. The ethical debate on this has not yet been properly and widely conducted, so I really need to come back to that. Afterwards, a number of practical issues related to the corona pass and vaccination are followed, namely what we do to reach all target groups. In those three parts I make my speech. First of all, the approach for the autumn. We now have every reason to take this step. That is why everyone has had the opportunity to be vaccinated. That is a very important and really changes the playing field. That's one. Two. We have a pretty high vaccination rate. Three. At the moment, the situation in the care and occupation in the hospital is such that we dare to take this step. The expectation is that in the next few days or weeks we will see something of a decline, but it will be obvious that we will see something of an increase again due to the relaxations we are putting in place on 25 September. The question is, of course, how strong that increase will be. That question is not easy to answer. The OMT is honest in that and says: there are still a lot of uncertainties. That doesn't mean you don't have to take that step, but it does mean you have to take that step with your eyes open and keep a finger on the wrist. So that's what we're doing. We're gonna monitor very well. Everything we already do in the area of monitoring we continue. Everything we do in the field of testing and tracking, we just continue. Of course, we'll do everything we can to get that vaccination rate even higher; more about that later. Then what are the uncertainties for this autumn? That's what the OMT says a number of things about. First of all, this is the degree of transmission inhibition. There's a lot of research left. The latest studies show that it can really be reasonably assumed. 70% is often mentioned. Sometimes more than 50% is mentioned. Some studies even show a higher percentage. It changes. It also depends very much on the setting and on what else allows you in society to move and so on. But the degree of transmission inhibition is a very determining factor. The height and homogeneity of the vaccination rate, i.e. whether the vaccination ground is as high as possible among all groups and in all places in the Netherlands, is also very important. And people's behavior. We'll let go of the five feet. Is that going to go completely loose in society, or even step by step, and let us show some caution here and there? Hence the new one-and-a-half meter advice instead of the one-and-a-half meter measure: give each other room. Introduction of the virus by people returning from abroad is important. The seasonal effect is important, but not easy to predict; the R is back in the month. Reduction of antibodies is an important development that we are not yet seeing, but which we are going to see at some point is the expectation. And the extent to which virus mutations are to a lesser extent attracted to the vaccine. The good news is that they are doing very well at the moment, especially for that where the vaccine is intended, namely to protect against serious illness and hospitalisation. It's going really well, but you shouldn't rule out the possibility of a virus mutation. That's added up to so many uncertainties, that it's actually not that easy to predict where we're gonna be in two or three months. That is why Paternotte's question is, of course, entirely justified. He asks: what do you actually have in the sleeve and when are you going to pull it off when you see that hospital admissions are going to go up again? Before that, we had a roadmap, but we had been vaccinated together from the roadmap. This meant that there had to be a successor to the Roadmap. You saw it in the letter. First of all, we say that the dike monitoring monitoring is still important, monitoring, testing, tracing, vaccinating. That's one. Two. Where we had the contagion rates as a very important criterion for sending them, they were given much less power of expression. Because: a high vaccination rate. Because: a lot of behavioral effects in the sum determine the number of positive test results per day. For us it is still a background factor or context, but no longer an indicator to send. That really is the hospital occupation and hospitalizations, so the number of new hospital admissions. Knowing that there is always a delaying effect, but the number of hospitalizations per day is decisive for us. What indicators do we use? In the scenario we consider most likely for this autumn, we are working with three levels of risk. The new level of risk "vigilant" is seen as a risk level in which the number of ic intakes is structurally below 10, at least that seven-day average, which also lasts for a while, and the number of hospitalisations is structurally below 50. When do we feel that we are moving towards a higher level of risk, in which we are once again genuinely concerned that other care should be scaled down because the occupation is becoming too high? That's when we're structurally on a number of ICU shots of 25 a day and a number of hospitalizations of over 100 a day. Why do we call that structural number of ICI shots of 25 per day? If you multiply that by the average lying time of 16 days, you end up with an ic occupation of 400. Mr Hijink had a question about the ic occupation. Of course, we have invested extra in the total ic capacity in recent times. There is an additional 500 million invested, looking at the average number of ICIs, i.e. 950, and what the ic occupation is in a season with a heavy flu, i.e. 1,150. We increased that by 200 to 1,350. This is easy to say, but in practice it is extremely difficult to implement, because of course this can only be done if you have enough nurses. Those beds aren't the point, those ventilation equipment isn't the point, it's about having enough nurses. Honesty, of course, commands that we say the following. However much extra investment has been made in the training, with money, with extra hands for care, etc., due to the outflow and absenteeism, it is quite difficult to man all those ic-beds. Let us now start from the 1 350 in a situation that is highly scaled up in the Netherlands. This means, if you invest more than 400 beds with covid patients, that it is of course much harder, in a situation where the number of flu patients could also increase, and it is quite likely that the flu wave can be firm to make up for the delayed care. In short, we should not think that a structural occupation of 400 long and easy to sustain is under the ceiling of 1 350. The upswing plan made last year should even lead to 1,700 ic recordings. I think that the situation in the current state of affairs is that this is simply not real. That is why we have reaffirmed with Germany the existing agreement that if we were to get into trouble again in the Netherlands, we would be able to call again on the German hospitals. That's one. Two. I have commissioned the LNAZ to explore how centered hospital capacity/ic capacity can be created in the Netherlands. I think we should have that capacity in hand when it is needed. That's on the side of the rack in capacity. If the weather goes that way, you'll have to take some mitigating measures to get us back over that bump. You don't really want to go back to the toolbox we used in the period we came from. You don't want to go back to a lockdown. So what do you have to think about? Well, there's still some collective measures to use. That's what the plan of action says. In addition, you might think of the further broadening of the use of corona tickets. This is also conceivable in a situation in which there is a need to intervene more firmly. In the situation where you need to intervene less firmly than at the moment, in which you need to impose fewer restrictions, you can think of a narrower use of corona tickets or a more regional use of corona tickets, or simply stop doing so. The latter can, of course, if you think that's justified. Let's hope it's justified. At the moment, we simply cannot judge that sufficiently. That is why there is a new weighing moment at the beginning of November, or as much earlier as is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u385	Thank you. Mr Paternotte of D66 and then Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u386	I'm looking for something more solid. Reference is made to collective measures such as group size, closing times and a distance standard of 1.5 metres. That's what I read in the roadmap. But at the same time I hear the minister say he doesn't want to go back to a lockdown. But of course these are the ingredients we had for the intelligent lockdown. You then close things, limit closing times, use the one-and-a-half meter rule, shrink the group size and stuff like that. What if, in November of this year, we had to see that we were going to this overload, what would be the first steps taken? Does the Minister think that this is justified against the 85% of Dutch people who are not really part of that problem, because they have opted for vaccination?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u387	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u388	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u389	Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u390	They never tell me anything! I understand very well what Mr Paternotte is saying. You can of course say: "We are at an 85% vaccination rate. Everyone's had the chance." You also notice from all the expressions in society that the rack is a bit out in society. If you go on a lot of work visits in the care, you will find that rack is also out in the care. Which means we're in a rather difficult time frame. You could say that this is the final stage of the whole crisis approach, so the hardest part is behind you. That's right, we've got the hardest thing behind us, but at the same time, this phase is certainly not the easiest. This calls for the re-weighting of the measures that are proportionate. If we get into the situation of a breakthrough change, I think Mr Paternotte will agree with me that you have no choice but to pull out the entire instruments of the past one and a half years. If you are not in that, but you are in an increased occupation of care, then here, together, we certainly have the task of ensuring that we leave the accessibility of care and thereby reduce the capacity utilisation with covid. That is why I refer to the two overflow capacities, namely Germany and the centred capacity in the Netherlands. I think they are both necessary in that case. Two. You can also not exclude that you need to look at a further broadening of the corona tickets. You really have to face that honestly. Three. You should consider collective measures, such as group size, when you see that the spread in a part of the country is too fast, because there the vaccination rate is too low. You're hoping to avoid that. If Mr Paternotte asks me to choose what I am going to do in advance, I cannot do that. You are not looking at indicators, such as the number of hospitalisations, then in a way like: if it is so much, then at least we are going to do this. At that point, you're going to weigh those indicators against the context of that moment. For example, a context factor is: how many of the people in the hospital have been vaccinated and how many of these people have been unvaccined? That's a big deal in the intervention you're putting in. Other contexts include the postponement of other care or the expected temporality of higher occupancy than the indicators we have now identified. For example, there are many context factors that you have to consider at the time, including which measure is now proportionate. When I hear the debate in the Chamber, there is a great deal of concern about the proportionality of taking measures at all at this stage. I understand that incredibly well. That was, of course, also the discussion in the cabinet. So all the measures you take must be as temporary as possible. As soon as you can get rid of it, you have to get rid of it. And if there is to be anything extra, then that must be the least profound intervention for that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u391	I get it all. If there's a breakthrough mutant, you actually have a new virus. That is a completely new situation. The delta variant has completely changed the playing field. This variant is twice as contagious and one gets to the hospital twice as fast. But Jaap van Dissel showed us yesterday that even with the delta variant, you can hardly see any difference from the effect it had on previous variants. The Minister himself once said that it may not be very likely that we are now suddenly dealing with a completely new virus. Maybe it's new in infection, maybe you'll catch a cold and so on, but you won't get into the hospital with it. Is it then possible to explain later to impose this kind of large-scale collective restrictions on everyone, whereas most of the Netherlands do not really need them?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u392	I understand that question very well. For this reason, I say: perhaps you should think more of broadening the scope of the corona access tickets or a regional deployment of measures. That's the second thing I'm saying. Anything that looks like a lockdown, I don't like it. I would think right now that you're only putting a lockdown in a situation where you're actually dealing with an escape mutant. With regard to restrictive measures in the field of education, we have agreed that these are the very last measures we will take. But if one thing has turned out in the last year and a half, then it is that the erraticness of the virus is not very easily predicted. That also means, in my opinion, that we should be a little cautious with all too firm statements, such as 'never again' or 'never again' or 'never again' and so on. You can't exactly predict that. What I do know, and what I am convinced of, is that the vaccines as we know them now, with the variants as we know them now, are very much protective. This should also give confidence that, despite the change in the seasonal effects and despite the many risk factors that still exist, this is the best way to achieve freedom. That is why we are fully committed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u393	The ic-doctors we speak say that they are a bit the safety net of the corona policy of this cabinet. If the cabinet is swarming or making mistakes, they will notice it immediately because more people will fall into the safety net. The big problem that these ic-doctors see is that in the year and a half in which we are now in this crisis, they do not actually notice that capacity is added on a structural basis. This also concerns the capacity to do, for example, all the catching-up operations. So I would like to ask the Minister what he can say to the doctors and nurses who work there, who do that important work, so that within a few months the reduced capacity, which Gommers also points out, will rise. I get the point that beds and machines aren't the problem, but what can we promise these people? What can the Minister promise these people if we see that it is less than more?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u394	There are a few elements. I understand the question very well. I think it's all too easy to think and say "you're just gonna scale up the ic-capacity." You can't just do that unless there's an undiscovered look out there somewhere, but it's not. We need to be real in that. You can only scale up the ic-capacity if you ask people elsewhere in the hospital to work temporarily, or for a longer period of time, on the ic, or if you train more people structurally for the ic, who have to choose for it and who then also know how to hold on. I think it's that combination. That is why I have indicated the following. Usually we have an ic capacity of about 950 beds and with a strong flu season in winter 1.150. This was normally considered as the ic-capacity in the Netherlands. I think one of the lessons of the crisis is that you should have more spare capacity on the ic's. This will certainly have to be part of the strengthening of endemic preparedness in the Netherlands at all. For now, we want to have at least 1,350 structuralally on top of the 950, plus flu 1,150, which are usually there. In the last two years, from 2020 to 2022, the additional 500 million has been invested. You're not here with that. You don't know if you're gonna be okay with that. You just don't know for sure and so you need twice overflow capacity, the overflow capacity in Germany and the overflow capacity in the form of centered capacity. It's going to be a huge job to do that, but the mission to explore it has given the cabinet to the LNAZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u395	Thank you. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u396	What makes it difficult is that the Minister always refers to the question of what happens when additional patients end up on the ic during a corona wave. But actually that's not... The essence of my question is: the ic-capacity was tight before the coronavirus broke out. That is, of course, at the heart of the problem. That capacity was already tight. The ic-doctors tell us that they're a bit like the fire department: we should always have some cars left in case there's a fire in four places at once. Then you have empty beds and then you may have people working elsewhere in the hospital, but we need that space. They say to us that they simply do not see the EUR 500 million pot, which the Minister is talking about, being a result. I would like to know from the Minister: how does he ensure that results are achieved and that these structural beds are added?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u397	I get that, but I'm gonna have to be precise. We have written this quite extensively in the letter. The rampage plan for the ic we made with the hospitals starts with a basic acute care capacity of 350. It's crazy enough that it's always occupied, just over the year, because accidents seem to be pretty smeared over the year, et cetera. This concerns the need to have that acute concern. On top of that is a landing capacity of BOSS beds, as they are called. Those 200 BOSS beds are just there. Once all the beds are occupied on an ic, someone needs to be removed because otherwise you won't have that security capacity, that firefighter's capacity, available anymore. It has to be, anyway. Then there are about 400 beds that you need for the entire program of planned care, including the catching-up for the coming period. Then it's 200 beds for the flu. Of course, those patients aren't here yet, because the flu hasn't kept home yet. And then it's 200 beds for covid. That's the sum to the 1,350. To scale up to that capacity there is a budget available. Beds are available for this purpose. The plans are available for that. It's taken care of. The question is: do you think it's conceivable that you'll even get over it this fall? I don't know. It's possible, but I don't know. That's why there's overflow capacity. So we made the deal? Yes. Did we make the plans? Yes. If those plans actually have to be filled in, you're gonna have to get people out of the rest of the hospital. That is inevitable, because they are not now looking at an empty bed without a job. That's how it works, but by the way, it always does. Mr Hijink says: we always had too few ice beds. No. You can say: didn't we always need a bigger firefighter's capacity at all? But I don't think that's the case. If you're just looking at the occupancy rate, I don't think you can say that about the years before corona. It's not like we've always had a huge cut-off over those years. It is true that, I think, you have to learn that it is very difficult to scale up capacity and that you have to make a more structural agreement about this scaling-up in a crisis situation. You're gonna need a more structural setup than we have at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u398	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u399	Let's get back to the schedule: vigilant, worrying. Do I understand it so well that the corona tickets, which I think the whole Chamber considers to be a serious measure, are not subject to vigilance at the level in any case and that it could be a worrying option at the level?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u400	No, because it's definitely an option. It also says: optional measure to be used. This can be done, for example, at regional or sectoral level, including in 'vigilant'. That depends and you certainly want to be able to do so in the coming time, when we're going to go down a little bit. I say on the authority of the OMT that we are going to go down, but we are going to go up again as a result of the relaxations of 25 September. It is inevitable that it will be this way. So we don't have to act on the basis of indicators, because you always have to weigh those indicators against the background of a number of context factors. I just mentioned it, and I won't repeat it. Can you be vigilant in the level, when you are actually structurally under ten, anyway, away from corona tickets? Let me give an example of why I am not sure that is the case. Suppose the patients you still see on the ic, almost all come from Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague. They are now mainly from Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague. It is then quite conceivable that on a regional scale you will use those corona tickets. Why? Because you want to slow down in those regions. You just need the purpose of those corona tickets, because you want to give the vulnerable people in those regions the space to go to the theatre and the cinema. In short, even if you're at that level of risk, there could be a reason to put it in. If I ask you to tell me whether or not I'm gonna do that, I'm telling you I don't know. In that context, we will really have to consider whether it is proportionate, because it is quite right that you and all the other groups should make a big point about this proportionality weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u401	Then we walk through a very foggy area and we do not know when what will happen. I find that complicated, because I do think that we should go for the least radical measure. It seems a bit now that it always lingers over the market. I think it is good that we should have a more structural debate on this once again. The Minister also announced that he would come forward with a number of things about possible further deployment of corona access tickets, including information and registration by employers. When will we be able to discuss this more comprehensively? This would be the approach for the autumn, but... Well, autumn's actually already here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u402	As far as I am concerned, we should not pretend to be able to design the reality of a few months from now. The virus is really just a little less makeable than we'd like. I think we should just take that into account. Society isn't that fixable either. We just know that the rack is out in society. We know the rack is out in the care and in that context we have to work. Furthermore, we are highly protected, but not all. We still have a significant risk in terms of 1.8 million people who have not built up protection and who are likely to end up in hospital. That's 2,200 to 3,400 ic-beds and 16,000 to 22,000 hospitalizations. If that comes in too short a time, the care can't handle it. So we need to make sure that doesn't happen in a very short time. By the way, the margins of uncertainty that the OMT is talking about are so great that we have really entered uncharted territory. If Mrs De Vries finds that out, I agree with Mrs De Vries. If she's asking me to make that much more precise, I can't do that. I can only inform her of the uncertainties that we have to deal with from the scientific point of view. In this context, we can only come to the conclusion that we should not just put our instrument box overboard and that we should deal with it very critically, because we always have to choose with Mrs De Vries the least radical measure of that moment. For example, we are deliberately abandoning the control of contamination rates in this approach. So we're really just looking at the hospital admissions and whether the care can handle it. That has to do with giving everyone the chance to protect themselves. That's a really different scene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u403	I do not think that was entirely the answer to my question. I asked when on some of these points I understand that this remains rather vague, but of a number of other matters the Minister and the Cabinet have indicated to me that they will be able to find a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u404	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u405	Because I do not want us to have to talk about all kinds of measures here after a press conference. I want us to really talk more basically about this kind of thing. I think we just need time for that. It seems that the time for such a debate is always too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u406	I get that. If you call me, I'll be there. I will come back to the question of the extent to which a corona pass can be applied to work, for example. Of course, we will also work out a number of things and we are very willing to have that conversation. I'll be right back on the 2G option. We're gonna work on that, too. Of course, we have to talk about this fundamentally. In any case, at the beginning of November, we will come to a reweighting of the necessary measures at that time, hoping that we can take a step back, but not for sure. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to some questions about the corona pass. A number of ethical questions have been asked. Some of them have also been answered by the mp, but some of them haven't yet. So I'd like to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u407	Certainly, but there is another question from Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u408	I would like to return to the Minister's point that, as far as we are concerned, we should spare the schools as much as possible, with all that still needs to be done, and that we should continue to do so. A few colleagues have already referred to it: yesterday a group of All Hands Together stood here at the Chamber. So they had a PCR test in a lollipop form. We were allowed to test them ourselves. Indeed, that was quite different from that little thing with which "the brain gets hit," as most people put it. I would like to ask the Minister's question as follows. This is particularly about school children who are vulnerable themselves, but in any case all children under 12 cannot be vaccinated, so that would be an additional protection. It's already in Germany. We would be pleased if the Minister could come back to that in detail now or later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u409	I don't know this exact example. I wasn't there yesterday, so I don't know exactly which one it is, but I do know that we financed several new applications ourselves in a research setting, so maybe that's one of those applications. I don't know. Maybe it's a company that did it all by itself, but it could also come from a programme we financed. Of course, we always look for innovation that helps us, innovation that makes testing more accessible, innovation that makes it less invasive for children. That's what this kind of saliva removals come from. I don't necessarily know this one, but I can just imagine that if you tell me how that goes, it could be a very useful one. I'd like to see what we can do with that. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u410	Thank you. Now let's talk about the tickets. We used to call that a "block," but I don't think that's allowed anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u411	No, I'll be careful!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u412	Now it's a subject or theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u413	It's a shame. All things that used to work very well are no longer allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u414	The Prime Minister has also answered many questions, so I would ask you to answer only those questions that have not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u415	Yes. That is quite difficult, because it has also happened somewhat partially. That is why I would like to answer a few questions that remain different. That is also because Wilders, Kuzu and others have so clearly said: "This is just about compulsion or urge. Then why is this motion not being carried out?" The strange thing about this position is that we have had a debate here with each other for hours about a law: the law on the application of corona tickets in a situation that is necessary. In which sector is it? In what sector isn't it? We have just had that debate with each other. The outcome of that debate has been the law. Of course, we can operate within the law as a cabinet, even as a missionary cabinet. Apparently, after that law has been passed, you can also ask if we do not find that too much urge. That could be an idea. To be honest, I don't think so. I think this measure fits in with the category I have just heard from Mrs De Vries. It is the least radical measure given the context in which we stand, given that we are all ready with these measures in society and given that the rack is also out in care. Then why do we do that? We want to slow down the spread. We just have to do that. The overloading of care would reduce access to care for everyone, and so we want to slow down the spread. That must be done, because we are going to get back together in larger groups now that the 1.5 meter is being abolished. Two. I often hear that the thesis is involved that this leads to a division. That is often said, or even worse words. But of course it isn't. Right, because with those corona tickets, you're going to make larger groups possible again, in a safer and more responsible way than without corona admissions. And because you work with those tickets, you make sure that both vaccinees and non-vaccines can be together in a safe way. So it's not a dichotomy. There aren't two currents. Of course you would, because the vulnerable people would say: that group, I can't be there for a while. It therefore serves two purposes: to inhibit the spread and to ensure that vulnerable people can simply continue to be part of society, or actually become part of society. Of course, a higher vaccination rate could be a consequence, but that would be a side effect. That can't be a purpose. It should not be a purpose as the sole purpose of entering those corona tickets. That's what I wanted to say. Then I'll come to a few other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u416	There is a question immediately following your introduction. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u417	I think the Minister is moving too fast here. GroenLinks was one of the parties that voted in favour of the law that allowed access tickets to be requested in a number of sectors. But we have laid down a number of very clear conditions in that comprehensive legal procedure, which lasted about 12 hours. Proportionality. We also said that this was, I believe, an amendment by Mrs Becker, that it should not cost money. We have said: testing must always be a good alternative. We've talked about a lot of things like that. In fact, self-testing was something that we really gave as a condition. Under these conditions, we agreed to the law. What we see now is that in this way we go a step further than the tickets that could already be requested in a number of places. We simply sincerely question whether the cabinet meets this requirement of proportionality, among other things. We also see, for example, that testing is not a fully-fledged alternative at all. You can't, as in some countries, get tested at any angle. Mrs van der Plas mentioned an example. I live in Nijmegen myself, as I just said, and even I have to ride a long bike before I get to a test site. My parents live in the Achterhoek and they're all the way too. So testing is not an alternative. If you ask anyone who wants to have a cup of coffee in every sports canteen and on every terrace for a cup of coffee, it is the question whether the way in which the cabinet is doing this is really a good implementation of the law and the conditions that have been laid down by various parties, including ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u418	I'd say so. We did indeed have a very thorough debate on proportionality at the time. The proportionality is actually that if you didn't do it, you would have to maintain heavier measures. That's what the OMT says. So you're actually always doing it to alleviate what else would be necessary to control the epidemic. That's how the OMT describes it. If you didn't do this, you would just have to hold the 1.5 meters and everything related to it, and that obviously means a lot more complexity for entrepreneurs, for example to run their business. This means that it is not possible to be together in large groups. The question is whether this is proportional for the people who are actually protected. You have to answer that question, too. That is why the cabinet really comes to the conclusion that at this stage, at this stage of transition, I hope that this final phase of the crisis approach is indeed a proportional intervention, because it is 'what is different' much heavier. This is also more difficult for those who have been vaccinated, which is 85% of the population. As far as testing is concerned, we now have a capacity, I say "we," but I mean Stichting Open Nederland for access tests for up to 400,000 tests a day. It is very difficult to estimate whether we will need it, because of course you do not know exactly where, at which access, people go in who belong to the 15% non-vaccines. It's very hard to estimate. It is at the top of the assessments made by Stichting Open Nederland. I am not sure that will be enough, but at least it is a lot. 400,000 is really a lot. That's 114 test locations plus 6 XL locations. That's a lot. Nevertheless, regionally for example, there may be tension, so demand is greater than supply. I can't see that right now. What we have done is to launch a new call for tenders for new testing capacity. We have said that we should actually deal with it in an Open House-like way, so that supply and demand can be better matched. Then we do not have to keep a lot of supply in the air, but demand and supply are better aligned. That tender will be completed on 11 October. Take a look at, for example, the Open House for travel. It eventually led to 800 locations or something. Our assumption is that where we really believe that we can already test with 114 locations plus 6 XL, which will be even more finer. Depends on demand development, because that's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u419	I read an article in De Volkskrant this morning or yesterday evening which was based on the assumption that there might be fewer test sites, so it becomes even less accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u420	We don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u421	So the question is whether testing is still a full alternative to vaccination, because that has been expressed by a number of parties, including ours. Just my point, Mr. Chairman. My point was that the Minister cannot say here: you voted in favour of this law, so we can do this and I do not understand all the objections. We made a number of conditions at that time, six months ago, in that detailed examination of that law. That was a good, substantive discussion. We made it very clear with a number of parties here, among other things, that there should be no demand for a contribution of our own. Well, we heard a few times that's in the air anyway. We've made a point of those self-tests, to make it easy to reach. I didn't see that in the performance. We have also made it a point that testing should always be an alternative. Those are a lot of really tough conditions that were set by different parties, including ours. At least they have not been taken into account in this development. Above all, the question is whether this is not to move people towards vaccination. I am sure we will discuss this later. But that's my point here, that's why I'm wondering if this is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u422	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u423	Let me try to explain why I honestly think so. So I am not saying: we dealt with the law at the time, so all the efforts of that law are good. No, that law is made up of the following. Where could you do it? Is it justified to do it? I say this in response to various qualifications I hear from the Chamber. We've had that discussion. The outcome of that discussion is contained in a law and that law prescribes where it is and is not permitted. But we also said at that time: whether something is also proportional at a certain stage of the epidemic, you will really have to look at it depending on that stage. That is what this debate is about. So those are actually the two layers in the discussion. So I am certainly not saying that you voted in favour of the law at the time, so all the use of the corona tickets is always proportional. No, that depends on the context of this moment. The law says it should always be the less radical option. That's what the law says. That's it. Don't do this, the OMT also says, requires much firmer measures for everyone. Then the question is whether this is proportional to the 85% vaccine group. That's three. Then the question is: is testing a full alternative? Yes, because it offers exactly the same access. Is it a totally epidemiologically equivalent alternative? No, because vaccinees are better protected. In fact, there are always residual risks when testing for access, when using corona tickets or when mixing vaccinees and people who have come in through a test. This does not make the epidemiological alternative entirely equivalent. But it is a real alternative, in the sense that it gives the same access. Then the question is whether the test infrastructure is sufficiently fine-meshed to actually provide the people who have not been vaccinated with a test in an easily accessible way. So I say: given the test capacity of up to 400,000 a day, which is 160% of the standing capacity, it is possible. But it would really require overtime on the first weekend. Towards October 11th, the tender for that Open House will end. The assumption is: if demand in the market is large, supply will also be much larger. We saw that at the Open House for travel. Mrs Westerveld is asking for her own contribution. The cabinet has always taken the view that, looking at the millions it costs, it is quite nice to put something off the bill with the people themselves. But we also understand that that would be too obstructive with that broad application that we are now choosing. That is why we are removing that argument by making those tests free of charge for the time being. Then there are the self-tests. That's just not foolproof. Working with self-tests is just too fraudulent. We have tried to do so, and we have also looked closely at what is possible at international level. Actually, there aren't any.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u424	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister for something more compact...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u425	A little more compact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u426	It is an important subject and it is a big one. But I'm gonna ask him to answer something a little more compact. I would ask the Members of Parliament to keep the interruptions a little shorter. Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u427	I almost heard the Minister say something in an intermediate sense that I've heard more often. That's why I'd like to ask another question about it. The Minister says here again that admitting only vaccinees is safe. Now, in the last few days, I've been looking at research that's available and I've been calling a doctor's microbiologist about that, too. The doctor says you have different scenarios. Or you'll have everyone tested, including people who have been vaccinated. Or you only allow vaccinees. Or you can make that mix. That mix is actually what we choose, but that is the most unsafe option. There it is said: testing everyone is the safest option. I hear the Minister denying that here. But at least that is what I get back from experts who are also involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u428	What does the OMT say about this? That actually says: the safest thing would be to just let vaccinees in. That's the safest thing to do, but it doesn't fit into the law. So if that were necessary, I'd have to go back to your room and then we'd have to change the law. And I don't think this is the time to make that decision. I shall come back to the question of how we measure this. Mr Paternotte had a question about that. The OMT says: 2G would actually be the safest, but that just doesn't fit within the law. And it doesn't fit in with the arrangements either. If we chose to do so, I would really think that we are going outside the framework that the Chamber has given to the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u429	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u430	No, I really need to explain this. Because, Mrs Westerveld says, if you're going to test the vaccinees all over again. To be honest, this is a rather disproportionate burden on the people who have been vaccinated. The third is as we have arranged, namely testing as an alternative to vaccination. Is that without any residual risk? Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u431	It's a very clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u432	One point to make clear that I'm not saying all kinds of things. I'm just saying the Minister's claim was incorrect. I am not saying anywhere that we only want to allow vaccinees, I am just saying that the claim, which is being made a few times now, is not correct and that we have been able to read it in research and have verified it with scientists.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u433	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u434	I'm just gonna go back to what the OMT sketched out, huh? Of that you may say that it is not true, but that says...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u435	Thank you. There are a number of interruptions: Mrs Bikker is the first, then Mr Stoffer, then Mrs Van Esch and then Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u436	I remember the treatment of the Temporary Act of Access Cards very well, precisely because two things were very important to my group: one was that we were going to make more possible than otherwise in view of the epidemiological situation at that time, and I could not yet pronounce it, and now, and the other was, for my group, really a key point, that we were going to ensure that not only vaccinees, but also unvaccinated people kept access to public facilities by making testing free. I myself tabled that amendment, which was supported by a majority of the Chamber. After that, the cabinet said again: we would like to see our own contribution. A majority of this Chamber said the same thing. I am not going to quote other colleagues, but that is a point that is very difficult for my group when it comes to the extension of tickets. What was the key point for us has changed. I would also like to ask the Minister the following. At that time it was said that we are going to make more possible, and this is particularly apparent at large meetings over 75 people. Now we're gonna do something... If you look at the literal text of the law, the minister is right, but if you look at the legal treatment we had with each other, it was about making more possible in large groups. That reflection, what effect does that have on proportionality? I'm gonna miss the Cabinet. But maybe it's coming now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u437	Well, you'll put the ball on the dot. This discussion I was there, all those hours and after that in the First Chamber was at a stage that we didn't have a delta variant yet. At that time it was indeed assumed that in small groups you did not need this very much at a vaccination rate of 85%. Then you could do without it or at most in large groups. That's exactly how we talked about it. This is without prejudice to the fact that the law is entirely in line with the choices we are making. But we did discuss the law in a situation before delta, and delta has been quite a change in the playing field. You can also see that you cannot afford to let go of the 1.5 meters, knowing that besides a lot of people we have vaccinated, we also have a large group of people who have not been vaccinated, who have not even experienced the infection themselves and who is therefore still at risk to end up in the hospital. If you are going to do vaccinated and unvaccinated in groups together, then that is not going well and so the OMT has said: you have to maintain that 1.5 meters or, if you don't want to, what in itself is for it, given the situation in which we are sitting, then you will really just have to opt for the application of those corona tickets. In fact, the OMT suggests doing so even wider, but of course we have had that legal treatment and it is very clearly defined where it is mandatory, where it is forbidden to use it and where it is optional to use it, in a closed place. That's how the law is built. We have had that debate, and within the contours of that bill and within the contours of the OMT opinion as we have been given, we have made this choice with regard to the demarcation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u438	But that's a choice we made when we looked at the bill differently. I would like to take that into account with regard to the objection raised regarding the own payment for testing. But what is a second objection to me, and I have not yet heard the Minister, but perhaps he will come to speak about it, is that it is so unclear for how long we are going to enter this phase. Of course the minister has no glass ball and he can read all kinds of prophets, but he will not know what the future predicts. But one thing he does know, and that is that the vaccination rate advised by the OMT is 95%, we want to be able to let go of the measures. If we look at the National vaccination programme, that 95% could be there if everyone who is not in the group of fixed vaccination refusers were to be vaccinated, which is not currently the case in society. How does the Minister weigh that element and his words in the press conference, which actually push unvaccinated people further away instead of encouraging them to be vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u439	I disagree with you on that last point. It is said that the test is an alternative, but that people have to make a great deal of effort to do so, which means that you are going to put very great restrictions on unvaccinated people. I heard that again today. Of that I think: well, no, it's actually a very small effort. I've been trying to describe that honestly. It really falls short of the enormous constraints that we as a society as a whole have to face for the sake of a small group of unvaccinated people. I think it's fair to say that to each other. I will always stand by the statement I have made and repeated, namely 'vaccinating is a free choice', but I do not share the non-committalness that seems to exist in some of the discussions in the social debate. It's not a non-binding choice. Indeed, the choice of part of society not to want to be vaccinated also determines the space that the rest of society, which has been vaccinated, is given to resume ordinary life. Denmark is often mentioned. Denmark is not so much a much higher vaccination rate in general, but it is much higher among 50-plussers, for example. That makes quite a difference. Of course, there are even more differences with Denmark.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u440	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u441	Let's talk about the statements. I think we should just be honest with each other. Those statements aren't supposed to be offensive. They're also not meant to push people away from vaccination. I don't think that's how it works either, by the way. Then I'm going back to the percentages. I do hear the OMT say 95%. That is about the percentage that also fits with the National vaccination programme. I honestly believe that the discussion about corona vaccination through disinformation, by people who deliberately make anti-advertising for it, is polarized in such a way that the percentages of the dktp-prick will not be entirely feasible. Studies show, in any case, that it is a little dependent on the study population....................................................................................................................................................................................................... But there is, of course, still some doubt at a few percentage points. I'll be right back to what we're doing with that. I therefore use the statement myself: let us at least ensure that we get over that 90%. I'm not gonna promise we'll reach 95%. I am not going to make it an objective either, because it could take until the end of the day. We're not gonna wait for that. I very much agree that the corona receipts should be as temporary as possible. As soon as we have the courage to get rid of that, we're definitely gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u442	Thank you. I'm gonna check on Mrs. Bikker. That's your last interruption. I would like to appeal to the Minister once again. His breadth is always appreciated, but I really want to ask you to hold on to question-answer-answer-answer. 'Cause I just want to suspend in ten minutes. That's what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u443	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u444	Thank you to the Minister for his comprehensive answer, and thank you for mentioning that that 95% is not a kind of target and that it is nice when many people are protected. I'll share that. But I really give him that what he did on Tuesday, he calls it "fair," but I call it "hard" people who still doubt really puts them at a distance. The studies, including those of the Leiden University Medical Centre, show once again what prevents people from being vaccinated. Yeah, there's a group that consciously chooses all kinds of bullshit. That could piss the minister off. But the largest group of people, let's not judge them either, is people who, for all kinds of reasons, have doubts or who, on the basis of misinformation, have made a trade-off which they regret at the moment. It doesn't help pushing them further away, and it helps everything to have the conversation with those people. I think last Tuesday is a really missed opportunity, but I like to hang out with the Minister to get it right with those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u445	I will explain in a moment what we are all doing to increase the vaccination rate among really all those groups that experience a threshold in any way. But you say it was hard. I honestly think the truth might be harsh. The truth is that part of society that has not yet been convinced of the need for vaccination at the moment maintains the need to take measures that affect society as a whole and restricts access to care for people who also need a bed. That truth can be harsh, but it's fair to share that hard truth with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u446	I shall give the floor to Mr Stoffer. Then I'll suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u447	After the legal process, which I was not present with, but the Minister did, a lot of things have appeared. I would just like to quote from the note following the further report of 4 May 2021. Our group is asking, among other things, that there is always the freedom for entrepreneurs in sectors for which the test certificate is legally required to participate or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u448	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u449	Let us put it very practically: the alternative would then be to maintain the one-and-a-half meter rule in your company or at your meetings. It seems that this choice has been made and that it will be the duty to use the corona pass when the pass is immediately made compulsory. Why is that freedom of choice gone? This is really very different from what was said in the course of the legislative process directly to questions from our group. I don't understand. I would like to have an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u450	That law was then in the context of the existence of the one and a half meter measure. If you as an entrepreneur would rather not participate in the corona admissions tickets that was when your question was at that time there was the 1.5 meters so as an alternative. But if the AMvB of the 1.5 meter falls, you don't have the 1.5 meter as an alternative. For there is no obligation we can impose anywhere to maintain that 1.5 metres thereafter. Because that AMvB is gone. That's one. Two. Suppose you don't set the distance of 1.5 meters to zero, but make the AMvB optional for the situations where a corona ticket is mandatory and an entrepreneur doesn't want to choose, it is impossible to maintain it. So there are a lot of things that you might want to do, but then they completely screw up in enforcement. All the enforcement parties tell us: don't do that, because that doesn't really make the use of those corona tickets very possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u451	I'm also speaking of enforcement parties. They say: please do so, especially in those areas where that is a good option to keep your business open or keep your meeting. Let us be very real for a moment: at the moment it is true, but it is not being enforced everywhere either. And I don't talk that right, because let's handle it as long as it's valid, please. You have to behave properly in that. But it is not happening now either, so that will not be very different from what has happened recently and now after 25 September. There's a lot of stuff going on in there. As far as I am concerned, therefore, once again the next appeal sounds. One, don't do that coronapas. But if it is likely to be there in the near future, then take care of the freedom of choice. That gives society a little more joy than you would otherwise bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u452	We're applying those corona tickets to the sectors we've appointed. A number of options have been mentioned about the terraces. We'd like to wait for the proposal in second term. Offering the 1.5 meters as an option will ruin enforcement and we will not be able to do it for that reason. I would also like to emphasise the following. We can now just let go of that 1.5 meters in its entirety. The OMT also says it's justified to let go. It really is a blessing for humanity that we can do that and that we can get back together, even in larger groups. But for the time being, that still has to be done in a responsible way, with those corona tickets. So that corona admission ticket is actually a proportional intermediate step on the way to the end of the crisis. That's what it is so that you don't have to maintain that 1.5 meters anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-16-tweedekamer-5.u453	Thank you. Do not be afraid, after the votes I shall give the floor to Mrs Van Esch and Mrs van den Berg, because they were still open to interruption. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given so far. To be continued. I shall suspend the sitting until 7:45 p.m. Then we'll vote. Then the debate on developments on corona continues.
