ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is General Political Reviews. I would like to welcome the Members of Parliament, the leaders in trade union K, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport is on their way. I also welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. The Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations has a funeral in the family and will be back tomorrow. Of course, I would also like to welcome the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Today we are discussing the first term of office. I will, of course, give room for the debate between us. However, I would like to request that the interruptions be kept brief and that they be interrupted at the most in three ways. A number of points of order have been announced. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks on his point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, in his role as the outgoing Prime Minister, Mark Rutte stated in the conversation with the press that there is no longer any coalition. This makes it more logical for us to speak today in order of magnitude rather than in budgetary order. That's the point I'd like to make. I think this reflects the current political situation better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. It is indeed the order of the budgets, just as it is in the debate on accountability. But if the Chamber wants a different order, at least I am going to refer Mr Klaver's proposal to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. I can support that. The coalition no longer exists, we heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr. Chairman. Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. This is so transparent. This is so lame. The only intention is not to let the PVV and me speak first. They've made up an excuse for that now. Everyone at home is aware of that, Mr. Clover. The PVV is not the first, Mrs Kaag absent, Wilders is not the first speaker: it is too faint for words and too faint to respond. But of course I don't support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u7	I agree with what Mr Wilders said. But the argument isn't right either. Mr Rutte may have said that there is no coalition, but we are really talking about a government that is decommissioning, but is actually running on the most important issues of today. They want to be missionary on all their climate plans. On the whole corona situation, they're also missionary. Those are the big themes. Afghanistan's playing now. There are so many big topics. So, of course, the country is being run. There's an actual government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u8	So no support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u9	No support, of course not!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u10	Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is missionary on everything, so let's stop this horrible charade. Partly on behalf of BBB, JA21 and in the interest of the Netherlands: no support for this absurd proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u12	As far as the SGP is concerned, we are simply maintaining the budgetary order. I see four rulers sitting here from four coalition parties who have prepared a budget. As far as we are concerned, we are simply maintaining the budgetary order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u13	As far as the SP is concerned, the order of speakers is perhaps the least interesting of today. Here's what I'm interested in. I would therefore like to make a request for this. I want us to have a serious update, a state of affairs, of how this formation is now in place. 'Cause, yeah, no one remembers. Is there still a cabinet or isn't there a cabinet? We hear coalition members say that the coalition no longer exists. In the meantime, however, someone, a political leader, is not present at this debate, because she did not think it was a choice to be part of an existing cabinet and at the same time to hold the debate here from the Chamber. I don't remember. Yesterday, the Chamber asked Mr Remkes to give an update. That was taken off with a very limited note that actually didn't have anything in it. I would therefore like to ask whether at least the main players in this formation can update the Chamber on this, so that we know in what context we are having this debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you. But at least I'm not gonna write down any support for the request. Or do you support Mr Klaver's request? I hear support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u15	Mr. Chairman. The government has made the King read that we are actually always living in times of change, but I think this is also typical of the enormous confusion we have to deal with. I am happy to support GroenLinks' proposal, but I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that it would be a good thing for the outgoing cabinet to be clear about what we are going to do here today and in what context.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u16	So at least support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr. Chairman. I don't want to put a lot of words into it. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't matter very much. But if the majority of the Chamber thinks we should be in order of magnitude, then I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u18	Yes, but it is important that you decide whether or not you support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u19	I support Mr Klaver's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u20	You support Mr Klaver's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u21	Mr. Chairman. Support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mr. Chairman. I find this a complicated request, because it also affects me very directly. It would mean that I am the first speaker. But I also fully understand Mr Klaver's request. So I can support that request, but since Mr Wilders has prepared to speak first, I would be okay with him going for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you. Then I'll take a look at Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr. Chairman. I think that solves the problem. I think that's a good proposal from the VVD. I've heard more weird things about bottles of wine. We can all talk about that in the debate. However, I would like to express my support for Mrs Marijnissen's request. I'd like an update from the cabinet. From the informant we received a completely empty letter. We've been forming 185 days. Jules Verne could have been around the world in 80 days. So he could have been around the world twice. Neil Armstrong could go to the moon and back in eight days. So he could have gone to the moon 30 or 25 times and back. And our cabinet doesn't even know if they want to talk to each other. So I would really like to have a letter from Box K about what is really going on with the formation before lunch. For the rest, we can start with the VVD proposal just fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u26	Thank you. I'll discuss the other order proposal later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u27	Mr Klaver's proposal also has an effect on my place in the debate. That's why I feel uncomfortable saying yes cheerfully. At the same time, in response to Mr Klaver's point, I hear a lot of opposition parties saying that they would like to change the order in the order of magnitude, also to mark that the cabinet is a missionary. I'm not gonna lie down for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u28	Thank you. When I look at the reactions, I suggest that Mr Wilders should be the first to start, in line with the VVD's proposal. I'll take a look at the MPs. In fact, I find that this proposal can find some support, given the reactions in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u29	My point is not that I want Mrs Hermans to speak first or Mr Wilders to speak first; that is not the point at all. The point is that we have an order of work here. I think it's good to mark this cabinet as a missionary. That means the coalition doesn't exist anymore. That is relevant, because we are going to talk about budgetary adjustment for two days. Do I then speak to three parties or do we simply speak to individual parties and what is in their election programme? In addition, I would say: do it either according to the budgetary order or in order of magnitude. The latter was my proposal. In fact, I think I have heard a majority for that. I would like to stick with that, not with all kinds of adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u30	I now conclude that, including the CDA, there is a majority in favour of Mr Klaver's proposal, but Mrs Hermans has made a gesture to Mr Wilders to get Mr Wilders to speak first. Mr Klaver says that this is not in line with his proposal. I still think it's okay to... There is a majority in favour of Mr Klaver's proposal. I would like to give the floor to Mr Wilders, and also to Mr Van der Staaij, who is still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u31	Mr. Chairman. Again, I disagree. I've been preparing myself, too. Last week I informed the Registry about this, and I would be the first speaker. Now, for whatever reason, it's not like that. In my opinion, Mrs Hermans of the VVD does not need a majority in order for me to start first. I am grateful to her for that. Then we can still follow the proposal of GroenLinks, and then I accept the offer of my colleague from the VVD to start first. I don't think it takes a majority to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u32	In order to avoid having a very long discussion here again... I think Mr Klaver's proposal is being done so right. With Mrs Hermans' offer, Mr Wilders can begin, and then we use the order of magnitude for the rest, as GroenLinks proposes. Then we've got a good center.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u33	I think Mr Heerma gives a very good summary of what it looks like. It is a courtesy by Mrs Hermans, which does not require a majority. There is a majority in favour of Mr Klaver's request. I therefore propose that Mr Wilder should start later, and then we will use the other order, as Mr Klaver has requested. Then there is another point of order: Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are on the eve of a long debate, a two-day marathon on the budget. In the meantime, we find that colleagues of mine are called by the VVD, by Sophie Hermans, our colleague chamber member. It's a call with the question: there's money to distribute, do you want in? This raises a number of questions for our group. Who's been called? Can this get out of the back rooms and out here on the stage? Are there any deals being made yet? What is the status of our debate if we see all kinds of deals being made behind the scenes? Does that mean that parties are going to vote in favour of this budget? In other words, what are we going to do here for the next two days? Perhaps it would be a good idea for Mrs Hermans to explain this herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u35	I think this is a point that can be exchanged in the debate. There are questions about that. It is not up to me as President to have a role in who is talking to whom, but it can of course be part of the debate. Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u36	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of people watching and a lot of reporters. They see and know that things happen behind the scenes. They're invisible. People are being called and allowed to think about it, and money is being promised, maybe for support, maybe not. Could that be on the table here? It's the least we can do. Before we begin, I just want to know the status of this debate. Does it make sense to talk about all kinds of proposals here if everything is arranged behind the scenes? I think that's a good question. I also think that Mrs Hermans herself can say something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u37	I see that Mrs Hermans is standing up and willing to do so. I call Mrs Hermans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks for the question. I can clear it up right now. There's no deal at all. We are on the eve of the first morning, I must say that we have a long debate on the budget for 2022. There everything can be exchanged, all ideas, all suggestions, all wishes of the parties. All I've done in the last few days is approach most of the parties to see what the wishes and ideas are. That was not to make an appointment in advance, absolutely not, but to get a sense of it. For it is my firm conviction that today and tomorrow we in this Chamber must seek majorities for broad-based proposals, for issues which are important and which the Netherlands stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u39	Thank you. I suggest that the rest can be exchanged in the debate. Then there is another request, namely Mr Omtzigt's and Mrs Marijnissen's requests. That is the request to the cabinet to clarify the status. Well, the questions have been asked. The cabinet is in section K, so I assume the Prime Minister has heard the request. I'll direct it to the Prime Minister. It is about the formation: what is the state of affairs and what is the role of the coalition in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u40	Mr President, may I make a comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u41	Yes. Mr Van der Staaij, and I shall give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u42	I just checked in. Frankly, I find it inappropriate under state law to ask a outgoing cabinet about the state of formation. The initiative really lies with the Chamber, and then you have to address the main players in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u43	Yes. Mr Omtzigt, and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u44	Mr. Chairman. I have no problem with that, but Mr Hoekstra and Mr Rutte are MPs. The fact that they are currently in box K does not relieve them of their duty. We cannot have a debate with them as MPs, even though they are the main players in the formation. So I get the point that the SGP says, but as MP, they're forming right now. The informant sends a completely empty letter to the Chamber. You can do that after ten days; you can't do that after 185 days. So I would like to ask for clarification from the MPs Rutte and Hoekstra. I can't do that because of these double functions, and that's why I'm asking you this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u45	Mr. Chairman. I really think it's a mess and chaos right now. We have a prime minister who asks a member of parliament if she wants to rustle and arrange for her to call all kinds of parties. It's unclear, it's opaque. We do not know at the moment what the state of play is with regard to formation. We know that this debate is about next year's plans, about the budget. In the meantime, it is completely unclear how that formation is going to take place. Mr President, what are we doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u46	I would like to repeat Mr Azarkan's last words: what are we doing here? There's a missionary cabinet. There's a budget. There are issues in the labour market, in the housing market, in the climate. There are billions of proposals. And what are we doing here at 10:30 in the morning? Instead of talking about a deportationary budget, we are going to talk about serious counter-proposals from opposition parties... Parties from the former coalition are also making this a formation debate again. What are we doing here? If people want a debate on the formation, they must ask for a debate on the formation. But please let us have a debate on the budget here, because there are serious problems in the Netherlands and there are proposals to discuss them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you. Mrs Hermans, VVD, and then Mr Segers, Christian Union, and then Mr Omtzigt, and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u48	I really have nothing to add to Mr Heerma's words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u49	There's a budget for it. That's what we're gonna talk about. We can ask the Cabinet all the questions about that. All groups send someone who stands there, and they can be questioned by political choices. That is the debate, nothing but that. Please, let's get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u50	Thank you. Mr Ommzig...t. Excuse me, also for the viewers at home, that sometimes I say "Omzig" instead of "Omzigt." There's no point in it, let's just say that. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u51	No, Mr. Chairman. And that debate may begin, but this question is very serious. It has to do with the fact that we had elections more than six months ago, that more than eight months ago a cabinet was decommissioned. And then there is the question of whether we are dealing here with a budget from a cabinet that thinks we are going to implement it, or whether we are going to have a new cabinet. Surely that is crucial to understand how we deal with these budgets and budgetary treatments today and next week? That is why I maintain my request for a letter, and I see what comes of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u52	Thank you. When I look at the Chamber, there is a preference to just start the debate, to question each other about all the political issues that are involved. And I think that Mr Van der Staaij's remark, just made, is a correct one, but it may be part of the debate with the spokesmen present today. Otherwise, the Prime Minister would probably have answered the same question in that way. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV for his contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u53	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to Mrs Hermans for her gesture. Mr. Chairman. Where's Sigrid Kaag? Where's the leader of D66 on the list of speakers? Why doesn't she, as the political leader of D66, speak at the most important debate of the year? Her royal arrogance Mrs Kaag fell into the basket last week. As a minister, she didn't want to come to the debate either, she wanted to go on a candy trip to New York. She already packed her bags. Wonderful stroll on Fifth Avenue, fine quinoalades chewing with her kindreds, tasty organic mint tea sipping. Her yoga mat was already in her Louis Vuitton suitcase. But that party didn't go on because she was crucified as a minister by her friends from the Christian Union. And now that she's no longer a minister, now that she's not a minister, she's diving away again because that's what she's doing for this debate. I'll give you the real reason she's not coming. She's afraid of the debate. Kaag is a chicken who dives away from difficult questions and prefers her respected young servant Jetten to answer the questions. I don't know where you are, Mrs Kaag. Maybe you're looking at this debate at home with your fancy slippers. But how you've fallen in the basket, Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u54	The obsession of Mr Wilders with Sigrid Kaag is starting to take some really worrying forms. We have actually been seeing for months that Mr Wilders has a new life motto. An hour not tweeted about Sigrid Kaag is an hour not lived for Mr Wilders. And here today, in the main debate, in which we have to talk about the problems in the housing market and the labour market and how to deal with the climate crisis, Mr Wilders starts his contribution with his obsession with Sigrid Kaag. Actually, I'd like to ask him, are you all right, Mr. Wilders? If you ever want to talk about this Sigrid Kaagob session, you're gonna be on my couch or I'm gonna pay for a therapy session somewhere. Then you can talk about it, but I would actually like to challenge you to talk today about the problems in the country, and not about your obsession with a strong woman that you seem afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u55	I'm not the one who's scared. I'm right here. I'm right here. I'm the leader of the PVV. I'm standing here and I'm starting the debate with everyone. Mrs Kaag is a chicken. She's just a scared woman. A scared woman. Last week, when she was a cabinet member, she didn't want to come because she said, "I'm going to New York." And now that she's no longer a member of the cabinet, she says, "I'm not coming because I was in the cabinet." How much crazier does it have to be? Who else gets that? As leader of a large political party, the second party of the Netherlands, you should, if you are not in the cabinet, sit here in the Chamber to conduct the debate. excuses like: "I have a transition week. Oh, I have a transition week. Next week I'm going to be the new leader of D66, but now I'm going to do something else"... What a lame story! Fucking whore. She should've been here. I don't have an obsession. I have an obsession with people who forsake, who do not do their job, who are too cowardly to answer to the Chamber in the most important debate of the year, as I do here and as other political leaders do, but not Mrs Kaag. Too cowardly and too afraid of words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u56	I think Mr Wilders is only proving his obsession with the way he's raging about Sigrid Kaag again. Let me tell the viewers at home why I'm here. I am the chairman of the D66 Group. Like Mr Wilders and all the other Members who are here today, group chairmen are holding the debate at the APB. If Mr Wilders wishes to interfere with the delegation from D66, he must become a member of the D66 Group. Then you can make your position clear at the group meeting. If he wants to interfere with the D66 delegation, I have a suggestion for Mr Wilders. Then I propose that Mr Graus conduct the debate today on behalf of the PVV, because I am sure that I and many others have questions for Mr Graus. So, Mr. Wilders, let go of that obsession with Mrs. Kaag. Let's talk today about the content. I will ask you about that, and you can ask me about that. But stop worrying about that strong woman you're so scared of all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u57	I don't see that strong woman. Then where is she? Then where's the strong woman? Then where is she? I hear "Yoo-hoo!" somewhere. Yes, she's a strong woman, Mrs. Agema. It's there. But I don't see Mrs Kaag. She's not here. Mrs Kaag is, however, what you think of her is fair. The woman who dominated the debate and politics in 2021. First, before the election, she cheated on tax money with that VPRO documentary. She's influenced it to get a nice story for D66. She financed terrorists who blew up Israeli girls. She didn't tell Mrs. Bijleveld last week so fake that she would resign. Mrs Bijleveld stood here in the hall and knew nothing about it. She was dining with Clover and Ploumen, while Afghanistan and Kabul fell. She wants a lot of climate action, but she travels around the world four and a half times. In short, all relevant questions, content policy, which I would have liked to ask the leader of D66. You're not the leader of D66! And she doesn't. She wouldn't dare. She's afraid of confrontation. She is not a strong woman; she is the weakest woman in this House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u58	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u59	Every time Mr Wilders gets even more angry about Sigrid Kaag, he proves to me that he is extremely afraid of it. I can tell you, Sigrid Kaag is not afraid of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u60	Then where is she? Then where is she?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u61	If we discuss the formation again in the next few weeks, you can cross swords with each other. I do not think it matters very much what I am going to ask and submit to Mr Wilders, because he is reading it all from his paper. He has of course prepared a wonderful story, with all kinds of funny attacks on Mrs Kaag. We're all gonna hear that in a minute. Madam President, I must say that I have a bit of a feeling of "pitying girls is asking for kisses." That's what we in Brabant always say. But I say one thing to Mr Wilders: I know Mrs Kaag well. She doesn't like blonde men.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u62	But where is she? I'm allowed to respond. Are you going to turn off my microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u63	I think I turned on your microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u64	But where is she? Then where is she? I think the whole of the Netherlands is watching now. Last week she had an excuse. It was a very bad excuse, but she had an excuse. She said, "I have to go to America, to the United Nations, as Foreign Minister." I thought that was a weak story, but at least it was an excuse. Now she's not a minister anymore. She's not a minister anymore. She filed her resignation last week. And here are almost all group chairmen. So, where's that strong wife of yours? No, you're not a strong woman, not yet. You're not. Where's Mrs Kaag? She's not here, Madam President. She should have stood there and shown her strength! And she should have shown that she dared to answer every question, and also in this difficult time confrontation, but she dared not! You have a cowardly leader, that's what you have!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u65	Actually, I don't know where to start. All these personal attacks, against a colleague of ours who is not present, for a very good, state-law reason: Mrs Kaag was Minister of Foreign Affairs, was a member of the outgoing cabinet, at the time that cabinet established the budget that this Chamber is debating today. That explains and legitimizes why Mr Jetten is doing the debate! Apart from that, however, I would like to distance myself and say very strongly here that I do not want to continue the debate in this personal way today in any way. And I hope colleagues will agree with me, because we can be angry with each other and we can be critical of each other, of the content. Then it can be incredibly firm. But this way, of playing on the person, which is also unable to react for very legitimate and understandable reasons, I find really far below!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u66	That Mrs Kaag can't respond, that's not my fault, that's her fault. She could have been here. Then she could have responded to anything. Imagine if the Prime Minister hadn't come today. Shouldn't I have said anything about cabinet policy? Mrs Kaag should have been here. That's her job as the political leader of D66. Everyone in this room and all people at home want to see that they can be called to account for everything they have done in 2021 and for what they intend to do in 2021. That's what these General Reviews are about. This is the most important debate of the year. And what does Mrs Kaag do? She's diving. She's not even in the room. She's not even here! Where's Mrs Kaag? Madam President, could we please call Mrs Kaag to come after all? I think that's pointless, because she doesn't dare. She's scared. She's a scared, cowardly woman in politics. And unfortunately, Mr. Chairman, I can't force her to come here, but I won't take a word of it back. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is in deep trouble. We have too many asylum seekers, too few homes, too many taxes, too little freedom, but above all a rotten political culture of exclusion, backrooms and lies. The Rutte III cabinet has now completely collapsed. The rats have left the sinking ship, for making up about visiting Putin, for covering up crime rates about asylum seekers, for the supplemental scandal or for filling their pockets as a lobbyist. Nine months after the fall of the cabinet it is now even more cozy in a cemetery than in the Trêveszaal. Rutte III shows nothing but completed life. And so last week, that list of cutouts was supplemented by Sigrid Kaag. She threw the broom in the corner after she got a motion of censure on her pantalon. And it wasn't so convenient for her to sit at home with her left-wing friends at the flamboyant chateaubriand, while the Taliban cut off the freedom in Afghanistan. But anyone who thinks that something really has changed now is wrong. Kaag's party, Dedain 66, is still in the cabinet. Mrs Kaag also negotiates a new cabinet. So nothing has really changed. Mrs Kaag probably smells more opportunities than ever to further destroy our country. Mark Rutte now thinks she's a "very big lady." I get that, because without her, Rutte can go to the UWV. And with a bit of bad luck, Kaag is now the vice prime minister of the fourth cabinet of the man who is still in trade-K, Mark Rutte, for everyone. But he's still there, without any embarrassment. He doesn't care about motions of disapproval. Everyone resigns, except Mark. After every blow of jaw, he laughs only more, for nine months, missionary and without any political mandate. Mr. Chairman. Rutte doesn't care about the ordinary people. He only cares about the preservation of power and his Tower. Instead of stepping down and writing new elections, more than half of the Netherlands want to have new elections in the meantime, he continues with his mispolicy; throwing billions over the bar for climate, opening our borders to even more Afghans; are there even plans to take away our farmers' land and he also rumbles into the Netherlands an illegal QR society. Mr. Chairman. We live in some kind of new GDR, the Democratic Dictature Rutte. I am disgusted by politicians like this, who think only of their own interests. Thanks to this kind of politicians, seven out of ten Dutch people now think that our beautiful country has only become "a shitland" by Hart van Nederland. Give those seven out of ten people wrong, because the Netherlands is no longer the Netherlands. We have become an overcrowded country with open borders, where criminals, the mocromafia and the street thugs have free play and the common Dutchman has been abandoned. The Netherlands is rapidly being taken over by a small club of fanatics who only want to talk about diversity, gender and climate. They live in their own parallel world and do not care about the normal problems of the ordinary people. A left-liberal elite who flapping with the rainbow flag preaches the gospel of sustainability and open borders and even more who wants to bring ISIS brides and Afghans to the Netherlands. But, Mr President, we already have 50,000 Afghans in the Netherlands and there are now tens of thousands more. The cabinet claims to be in the region for shelter, but by that they mean I say to the people at home the region at your home, around the corner. Afghans are already in asylum seekers' centres in Amsterdam, Zoutkamp, Zeist, Ede, Heumensoord, Deelen, Haarlem,'s-Gravendeel, and soon they will probably also be in Zaandam, Almere, Utrecht, The Hague, Zutphen, Bergen op Zoom, Goes, Ternaard, Zoetermeer and Dronten. That's just the beginning. Our country is full, partly overcrowded, said Queen Juliana in her last Throne speech of 1979. The Netherlands had nearly 14 million inhabitants at the time. In the meantime there are almost 18 million and the Netherlands is overcrowded, full of strangers who have no business here but get everything for free, who eat our welfare state. More than half of all welfare benefits in the Netherlands currently go to non-western immigrants and asylum seekers across the country cause threats, violence and nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u67	However, before people at home may think that all of Mr Wilders' evil words are commonplace in this Chamber. He was just talking about all those places where Afghans are being caught and mentioned Heumensoord, a camp in the woods near Nijmegen where I myself as a city council member often visited when we caught Syrians in the previous refugee crisis there. Why are Afghans coming to the Netherlands now? These are Afghans who have worked for the Netherlands for the past twenty years. When our soldiers were there to help achieve peace and security, Afghans were working for the Netherlands. I think it fits the Dutch standards and values that you take good care of those people, that you also bring them to safety and receive them in the Netherlands. Mr Wilders was just trying to talk us into fear: watch out because Afghans might come near you. But, Mr. Wilders, I'll tell you one thing. In Heumensoord, but also in all kinds of other places in the Netherlands, volunteers are available. Dutch people who are proud that we receive refugees humanely in this country. Volunteers offering education, sports and games for Afghan children so that they can sit a bit humanely in those camps. Mr. Wilders, I am proud that the Netherlands stands up for these Afghans, I am proud that a majority of the Netherlands wants to accept refugees humanely and volunteer to give them a new home here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u68	That's interesting to hear. It's not surprising that D66 is proud of that, but I'm not. And a lot of Dutch people aren't either, because the country is packed. We have spent hundreds of billions and are going to spend on the reception of asylum seekers and non-Western immigration, and the Netherlands simply cannot handle it. It's just too much, it brings with it insecurity, it brings with it even more Islam. We don't even have enough homes to give to our own people and then you're going to bring tens of thousands of people here! Let me keep it neat, but your proposal is totally abject. So we just shouldn't do that. If we have a duty to accommodate these people because they helped the Netherlands, that is fine, but do so in the region and not in the Netherlands. Catch those people who helped the Netherlands in the region. I believe that the outgoing president of Afghanistan fled to Uzbekistan. There are still a lot of countries in the region where one has the same language, has the same culture, has the same religion, and from where the Afghans can return if the weather is better over time. It's fine that we catch those people, but not here! Our country is full. I don't want 50,000 Afghans. We can't even give the people in the Netherlands a decent social housing. Then why are we bringing in tens of thousands more people? That is total madness, and I say to you: you sound a bit like Mrs Merkel who said 'wir purchase tie'. Now that's the text of D66, we're buying tie. I'm telling you, we can't buy a cousin, we can't. And the people in the Netherlands are sick of you spending billions on climate, opening the door to all asylum seekers at the same time, while they are in insecure and their pension has not been indexed for years. Just spend the money on indexing the pensions of Dutch people, or on extra police and more security. Spend the money on that instead of getting the whole world to the Netherlands what we don't want because it makes us unsafe and what costs us money.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u69	What a sad and negative world view Mr Wilders has. The Dutch mentality is indeed that we can put our shoulders on each other's shoulders and do very great things together. The same applies to the reception of people who have to flee war and violence. At the beginning of Mr Wilders' answer, the monkey comes out of the sleeve. Mr Wilders has been able not to talk too much about it lately, but in a minor way the word "islam" still comes along. Perhaps in the end there is the real reason for Mr Wilders' tirade. But he has also lost his sense of Dutch society. Here he is raging about refugees we receive, for which there is broad support in society. He also mentioned the dictatorship of Rutte, the corona policy that everyone supposedly opposes, but reality is different. Many Dutch people see that in difficult times the cabinet has to make difficult decisions, and that in this country we take our responsibility to receive refugees, to protect vulnerable people from a pandemic, or to respect the rule of law here and to deal with each other in a decent way. It is sad that Mr Wilders does not see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u70	I see it very well, and that's why I don't want it. Last time I read in the Eindhovens Dagblad that asylum seekers were bottled up for years with false bills for pharmacists, with health insurance or I know what else. One big fraud! If we look at non-Western immigrants, which includes Afghans and Syrians, then here I have the figures. Last year there were 147.540 suspects of crimes in the Netherlands, and one in three was non-western immigrant. One in three! That includes the Afghans and Syrians. Let's talk about the cost. The joke about migration and asylum costs us EUR 16 billion a year! While we don't have a house to give to Dutch people, we also spend 16 billion. Why don't you just give that 16 billion to the care or the police or, as I just said, the pensioners with a pension? That's what we have to do! We must stand up for our one people and not bring half the world here. That is irresponsible and that is almost betrayal to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u71	There is another interruption by Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u72	We know Mr Wilders as someone who likes to give up on people who would like to come here, because they have meant something to the Netherlands. In this case, it's the Afghans. Those people have worked hard for the sake of the Netherlands. My question to Mr Wilders is: what can they do about the fact that there is a cabinet here that has greatly reduced the number of social housing units? Those are the guys who did it, aren't they? Why go to the people who have nothing, who have sacrificed everything and want to come here as a victim because they deserve it? Why do you sow hatred against these people? You have seen this, I say through you, President-in-Office of the Council, how they were received at Harkamp with disgusting Nazi signs. You're responsible for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u73	I'm not responsible for anything I didn't say myself. Let me put that in front of you. But again: it cannot be done in the Netherlands. We now have a shortage 300,000 homes. Then we can't bring in tens of thousands of people. Everyone at home understands that, don't they? We have a shortage of 300,000 homes, people are sometimes ten or fifteen years on a waiting list for a social rental house and then we bring in 10,000, 20,000, 30,000, 40,000 or 50,000 people. That's impossible, isn't it? Then help those people, if they have helped the Netherlands, by helping in the region with shelter in countries around Afghanistan. Then you help them. I also understand that you have a responsibility for some people, but not in the Netherlands? We can't handle that, can we? Queen Juliana said it a few decades ago: "The Netherlands is full." We're full now! We're full of shit! I'm not ashamed to say, "One people first." Our homes are for our people. People who have paid contributions and taxes in the Netherlands for years can please go first when they get a home? It's too crazy to say to those people: wait a little longer, because there are 30,000 people coming from Afghanistan and they come first? Nobody in the Netherlands understands that, do they? We shouldn't do that, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u74	If the problem is made very big because the social housing is being sold, because there is not enough additional housing and because money is being defrauded from social housing corporations, then we create a problem. But through you, Mr President, I say to Mr Wilders that he should focus on what is causing the problem. Those are not the vulnerable people who have given up everything and most of whom Mr Wilders knows that 97% of them are taken up in their own region. But we do have a task and a responsibility, especially for people who have helped us, in the interests of the Netherlands. Those people cannot be addressed in this way and put away in this way. I heard Mr Wilders talking about a division and about Rutte creating a division with the QR codes. But he is the champion of the division himself. He hasn't done anything else in this room for 23 years. He's the plush-sticking champion here. He's seen it come by. So what if you're causing it yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u75	Again, our homes for our own people, and I've already given all the answers. Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u76	Wait, one second. Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u77	I understand he wants to leave very quickly, because this is the core. The essence is that Mr Wilders has been talking to this House for 23 years, as one of the longest-standing MPs, and has always been giving up on people, on refugees, on Muslims and on Islam. With that he also creates a division, something that he is now fighting. If it were up to him, we'd have QR codes here for people like me. I wouldn't come in here. Mrs. Arib wouldn't come in. If it's up to Mr. Wilders, my mom can't go shopping in a grocery store with a headscarf, because he doesn't want it. And then here agitate against a division and against the introduction of QR codes... It's really disgusting. It's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u78	It's what I want. It's the Netherlands I want. I want a Netherlands in which our own people lead. That's the Netherlands I want. I was elected by the Dutchman who is in charge of care, when it comes to benefits, when it comes to housing and when it comes to security. Those who divide are the people who open the borders. Those are all those parties like yours, and D66 and the VVD and you name it, who want everyone to come here when you can't. And if you let everyone come to the Netherlands, while our country is packed, yeah, then you get that dichotomy. I didn't do that. I say close those borders and help those people in the region. You say, "Let them come here, 'cause they're pathetic." Then you create that division. Because you know that we have a housing shortage in the Netherlands. If you know that we have a housing shortage in the Netherlands, and you still say 'let there be tens of thousands', then you are the one who causes division. I choose our own people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u79	You will continue your speech. Interrupts in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u80	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is not only full, but our population is also replaced, exchanged, by immigrants, often with a headscarf. More than half of the children now born in our three major cities, Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague, are non-western immigrants. You don't have to be a demographic genius to see that if we don't turn the tide now, we're going to be a stranger in our own city, in our own country. Then we shall have an ominous fate. Then the Netherlands, like those retarded islamic sandbox lands, becomes hell on earth. Then our country becomes even fuller, with even more Islam and even more scum that doesn't terrorize each other, but our own people, and that when hyenas trample our quarters to drive our own people into the hospital, just like the mocromafia is already doing. Mr. Chairman. Drug cartels have a higher turnover than the budgets of Justice and Defence combined. Mark Rutte's Netherlands is now exporting more coke and xtc than flowers. Abroad, the Netherlands is no longer known as tulipland, but as narcostate. Under the guidance of the Minister of Justice, the Netherlands has increasingly slipped into a paradise for unscrupulous criminals. There is only one rule: who speaks, who is on the wrong side, dies. Lawyer Derk Wiersum can't repeat it anymore. Peter R. de Vries was unfortunately shot in the head in broad daylight. It's a mob, so treat them the same way. Eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. All means are allowed to smoke out this criminal scum. Waving your rainbow flag at the Taghis of this world isn't gonna save your life. Mr. Chairman. We need to take tough measures, just as Italy is already taking measures against the Mafia: consistently tracking down and much more police. We want to release an extra billion euros for the police next year. There must be more and extremely high penalties. The property of all those thugs must be confiscated. The use of hard drugs, from pills to ecstasy, must always be punished, no matter how small the amount is. Mr. Chairman. Last but not least, we need to completely isolate the mob rig in prisons. In Italy, it's called the "hard regime." That regime applies especially to the mafioso. They're in their cell 24 hours a day under strict surveillance. They have no contact with guards and have no access to the Internet and television. Also they only get one hour a month visit, and then behind glass, while it is filmed. These rules will not be relaxed until they cooperate with the justice system. Madam President. It's working. That proves Italy. The number of regrets has increased considerably since the introduction of these strict rules. My question to the cabinet is: why do we not? Why are we putting them in prisons that look like five-star hotels? Learn from Italy. Go to war against the mocromafia instead of our farmers. Mr. Chairman. However, our elite, as they sit there in box K, prefer to deal with very different things. Look at the building blocks that are the starting point for a new coalition agreement that produced the political love couple of the century, Rutte and Kaag, in the summer. Rarely have plans seen the light of day that are so far removed from the problems of the people in the Netherlands. They're totally detached from the reality of the common man. Their building blocks for the Netherlands are about diversity and rainbow agreements, a climate-neutral and fossil-free Netherlands, a better treatment of migrant workers, a stronger European Union, development aid and even more legal migration. Their activist pamphlet is more like a national suicide note. Our money, our sovereignty and our culture are collectively being thrown across the border. Mr. Chairman. If that does not affect you already, you threaten to be the victim of the terrible wok dictatorship of the politically correct Netherlands, with a suffocating, compulsive identity policy, reminiscent of the worst totalitarian regimes. They won't let them do anything anymore. From Black Piet to the word "white," from the VOC to the golden coach: everything they want to ban. Everyone has to bow down. The Dutch Railways no longer welcome passengers with 'good morning, ladies and gentlemen', but with 'good morning, passengers'. Toilets are made gender neutral. I'm gonna tell all those crazy supporters, you can fuck off and get the Rambam. Never will we adapt to your self-loathing, never! We're proud of who we are. We are not racists when we call whites and blacks black, because facts are facts. We are proud of our Golden Age, of our national heroes like Piet Hein, and no one, but no one at all, is taking that away from us. We can't hear the word "gender neutrality" anymore. While almost a quarter of the 15-year-old students are unable to read and write properly, children in many primary schools receive lessons about the so-called gender cookie, they learn at primary school! It's about pansexuals and gender-neutrals. I say stop messing around! Leave those kids alone! Give it a child to be a child and leave the sexual upbringing to the parents. Learn our kids at school first to compute, read and write properly! Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has many more wrong priorities. The common man and woman checked it out. They need to see more money going to mass immigration, climate policy and the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u81	Another tirade with nothing but anger and negativity from Mr. Wilders. He's against everything again, and he wants to ban everything. We have already seen here in major debates that he is a fan of dictator Orbán in Hungary. It is now really starting to take on perverse forms, because here in the Netherlands too, Mr Wilders wants to ban everything, if it does not fit in his booth. I'd just like to change the way we see the world. Because he's talking about the wok texts that we learn in schools about diversity and that sort of thing. Mr President, I am proud of that. I have often debated with Mr Wilders the interests of protecting the Ihbti community in the Netherlands and increasing their rights. When you look at young people struggling with their identity, who cannot be themselves at home, who cannot be themselves at school, they are young people who feel more depressed. The suicide rates among young people who are Ihbti are many times higher than the suicide rates among hetero-young people. That, Madam President, is why we in this country, with good information and attention to sexual diversity, ensure that every Dutchman can be himself. Let me put it this way: I am proud that as a homosexual I can be group chairman here in this Chamber. I am proud that we have a transgender person in the Chamber with Lisa van Ginneken for the first time. I am proud that in the Netherlands people are playing the rainbow flag, because they do not accept that you can still be put away in this country because of your sexual orientation. Mr. Wilders is going along with Orbán and his friends to label all those things as wrong and negative, but I can promise him that I will always fight for everyone to be themselves in this country, whether you have a black skin colour, an Islamic background or just happen to fall on someone who is of the same sex as yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u82	Yes, Mr President, but that doesn't mean we have to put that wobble in the heads of our young children! Don't be silly! I looked up what he was talking about, eh, and what Mr Jetten is such a supporter of: the gender issue. This was taught in March at almost all primary schools in the Netherlands, in the week of the springekriebels. You'll have to make it up. Because of the GGD and the Rutger Foundation, children have children in primary school. Do you know how old they are? It has been taught that there is a gender queen and genderlessness and androgynous people and transmen and transwomen and two-spirits and pansexuals, apart from men and women. Oh, for God's sake, cut the crazy shit! Let our children stay children! That's what I'm talking about. No one has anything against the Ihbti community. I have nothing against that either. If people want to change gender in a situation: be my guest. But you're not gonna let them put kids who can't even read and write in elementary school all this crazy in their heads? What the hell are we doing? This is the wok dictatorship. This is a totalitarian dictatorship. We can't talk about Black Pete anymore. We can't be proud of our national heroes anymore. We can't say "white" and "black" anymore. We can't do this anymore. It's all wrong, but we teach our kids about transwives, gender queens and two-spirits. Well, fuck you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u83	We provide this kind of education in schools for children who have felt since childhood that they do not fit into the boxes that we have imposed on our society for centuries. Those kind of children learn thanks to this kind of education: I can be there too, I can be myself. That gives kids confidence. It helps kids find their way into life. That is why, and especially given the figures of depression and suicide, it is so very important that we teach this in primary schools and secondary schools, but also in MBOs, HBOs and universities. I often see videos of homophobic men who are afraid of becoming homosexual or whatever when they have to listen to this kind of information. I can promise Mr Wilders: it really doesn't work that way. You're born and you find out who you are. Mr Wilders does not have to be afraid that he might find another letter of the alphabet when he watches an information video.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u84	I'm not afraid of that. I'm not against it either. I'm just saying, don't do that with kids. You're not going into that. A third of the children are unable to read and write properly at the age of 15, and are therefore semi-alphabetic. So you shouldn't impose your weird woke ideology totalitarianly on young children, but you should learn to read and write them, so that they can determine their own opinion on this when they are grown up and grown up. This is how a liberal democracy is built. You don't fill the children with ideological rambam, but you teach them to read, write and think carefully, just the basic principles in education, so that they can form their own opinions later when they're grown up. I don't have kids, but I'd hate for my 6, 7, 8-year-old kid to learn about gender queens and two-spirits. Stop it! That has nothing to do with being good for people who have a different gender or have a different preference. It's all good, but stop with the kids. This is proof that the woke ideology is totally out of control and doesn't talk about the things that should be going on. Okay, Mr. Chairman. As I said, in recent years the cabinet has ensured that the Netherlands has become a country where ordinary, normal things in life, for many people no longer reachable, have become unattainable. It's about buying a house, being able to live properly on your pension, or being able to pay all your bills without any worries. It's those people who've been in the cold for years. They are saddled with priceless rents, expensive groceries and rising healthcare costs. Sometimes they've been on the waiting list for years for a social rental house. This year alone, the energy bill goes up by hundreds of euros. The pension of many elderly people has not been indexed for years, and even now they are not getting a penny. It is a gross disgrace how these people, our people, are treated. Social security for all those people has been given away, and care is out of control. These people do not live behind the safe high gates of the villas in Wassenaar or Aerdenhout, but in the ordinary towns, villages and neighborhoods, from Almere to Spijkenisse. They cannot hide from the dangers of mass immigration and from the insecurity in their neighbourhood or street. And it's these people, just these people that the PVV has always stood for and will stand for. These people deserve a better life. That also means that they deserve more purchasing power. Millions of Dutch people will again not benefit from economic growth next year. This year's economic growth is 4% and next year it is 3.5%, while purchasing power is barely rising. Mr. Chairman. It is hard to believe that Rutte is transferring 45 billion Dutch euros to countries such as Italy, Spain and Portugal this year, and that with our money they are reducing taxes. That's what they do with our money! Mr. Rutte, who do you represent? You haven't represented the Dutchman in a long time. It is also hard to believe that you are spending 7 billion on climate at this time. Mr. Chairman. My group, the PVV, wants to do this differently. We propose that the 7 billion that the government spends on climate next year should be spent on lower rents, a lower energy bill and a lower own risk in healthcare. I also want the cabinet to adjust the accounting rate so that pensions can finally be indexed again next year. That's a duty of honor to all those elders who built our country before Rutte and Kaag broke it down. I mentioned an important point just after an interruption: give our homes to our own people. Every day we get so many messages from desperate people, young and old and throughout the country who can't get a home. It's unbelievable. I would briefly like to read one of those messages from a lady from Amsterdam: "A status holder with me here in the flat gets a fully equipped house and brings wife and children here within a year. He now drives a fat Audi and his wife is pregnant with the third. But my son has been on the waiting list for 11 years at 262 out of 750." Imagine that: a Dutch lady from Amsterdam sees this happening. Someone comes in, drives a fat car and immediately gets a furnished apartment, while her son is in position 262 on the waiting list. Status holders don't have to be on that waiting list endlessly. They're getting a massive priority. Over the last ten years, more than 120,000 homes have been given away by Rutte to asylum seekers with priority. Of course, 120,000 Dutch families should have lived in them. But no, Rutte prefers to coddle Syrians and Afghans with free homes than our own people, who have been paying taxes and premiums all their lives. They can't get a decent roof over their heads. Our own people are just being betrayed here. And then you read last week or the week before in the newspaper that a family from Iraq and a family from Yemen refuse beautifully offered four-room apartments because they are not big enough. They just refuse the homes they get priority. The Dutch are on the waiting list for ten to fifteen years and then an Iraqi family or a family from Yemen gets a home and then they just refuse it. It's too sick for words. I'd say out of the country with those ungratefuls. Mr President, perhaps I can do one more paragraph before I answer the interruption, because then this block is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u85	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u86	That asylum seekers should be given priority in getting a home must stop. That is one of the greatest injustices of our time. I am therefore proud to be able to present today an initiative proposal from my colleague Kops and to hand it over to you. We will also do so digitally, ensuring that status holders in the Netherlands no longer get priority over a home, so that Dutch people are back on one. This is a specific initiative proposal, which I hope the majority of this Chamber will support. It says that municipalities should no longer give priority to asylum seekers over Dutch. May I hand it over to you, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u87	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u88	Thank you, Mr. Wilders, for the bill. It will also be distributed digitally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u89	I actually wanted to bury the VVD... no, question about the housing problem. Of course, I don't want to bury the VVD at all, but I want to question it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u90	It was a slip, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u91	Yeah, a freudian slip. I have nothing against the VVD, even though she fucked me out, but that aside. If it were up to me, I'd still be there. Anyway, I think I can do a lot more right now. So it's gonna be okay. The housing problem has, of course, been carefully created by the various Rutte Cabinets. Mr Wilders is right to say that this is also due to migration. But that is only one side of the problem; that is half the problem. That is the side of the question. Also on the supply side nothing has been done at all. Ten years ago, several parties, especially the parties that won the municipal elections, more or less put in a construction stop. The cabinet has made up all sorts of rules that will stop building. So nothing happened on the offer side. Of course, these 100,000 men came in a year, but in order to look for a little cooperation on the right, I ask whether it is not strange that this cabinet spends 7 billion on all kinds of strange climate plans and reserves 1 billion for solving the housing problem. I don't think you can build one billion homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u92	In fact, that billion is in ten years' time. So if I read the pieces correctly, that's ten times 100 million. A VVD can't build one house for that, let alone many houses for the rest of the Netherlands. But you are right: we must do much more. One of the reasons why so little is being built is of course also those damn nitrogen rules. It is those nitrogen rules that not only catch our farmers, but also cause too little housing. We have to do something about that. As I said, we must give priority to our own people. We need to build more, even outside the city. We need to close our borders. We have so much more to do. If we were to start building more and direct more, stop that nitrogen crazy and give priority to our own people, we would be a long way off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u93	Of course, the government doesn't build houses at all. The government doesn't pay for homes. The government doesn't finance housing. That's what private parties and corporations do. Those are precisely the parties that have been given a kind of building ban from this cabinet. You yourself mentioned all the stupid rules in the area of nitrogen, CO and pfas. So do you agree with me that that billion should not be spent on building houses, but on, for example, removing the landlord's tax, firing officials who are now all checking strange rules, or reducing the lead times and making permits less expensive and stuff like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u94	Fine proposals. I agree with everything you call it. But it also helps if we get more homes because we build more homes. So I'm thinking, do both. Stop with the nitrogen rules. Make sure people who stand in the way of that do something else. And build more. Make sure those nitrogen rules go away. Make sure, within the framework of people who speculate, who are also a major problem, that people are given a duty of self-inhabitation, with exceptions. Make sure that if you buy a house, you basically leave exceptions there of course, reasonably also have to live for yourself and that you can't use the house speculatively to increase the price. For example, more measures are useful in order to do something about this housing. But Mr Van Haga's proposals are very sympathetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u95	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u96	Finally. Now you mention a number of things that intervene in the existing market. But the existing market no longer exists. It's been carefully destroyed by this cabinet. All kinds of things like a self-inhabitation obligation may be temporary nice to get some more air, but de facto you have to make sure that more homes are built. I'll come back to this whole climate obsession, this new religion we've set up. Everything is now being done to capture carbon dioxide and build biomass plants. 7 billion is earmarked for this, while 50% of CO emissions, whether you believe in them or not, come from the built environment. Wouldn't it be much better to reserve the 7 billion for, for example, the removal of the landlord's tax? If I make a motion on that, will you support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u97	I'm very much in favour of removing the landlord's tax. I think that everyone in this Chamber, from left to right, now thinks that it has a perverse effect. I'm sure that's what I'm here for. We have already spent that 7 billion on climate change. We have already spent it by reducing rents to 5 billion, by reducing the energy bill by reducing the energy tax, and by reducing the own risk. That is what we do for the people at home with a percentage that costs 5 billion. Then we have two billion left. Of these, we spend 1 billion on care and 1 billion on the police. So we have already spent the 7 billion. But if there is another cover that is right as far as we are concerned, we support it, because we are very much in favour of removing that terrible landlord tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u98	Mr Wilders always tends to describe a small part of the problem, shout very loudly about it and then turn people against each other in society and sow hatred. He said and passerby: I'm not a racist. In the Netherlands, the judge deals with this. The judge has ruled that you are. Maybe it'll come in sometime. Yesterday, I looked at the CBS figures on the number of murders last year: 144. Turns out more than half of those murders are committed by the partner or the ex-partner. Mr Buitenweg drew particular attention to this in her previous period. This is particularly true of women. The partner or the ex-partner is often stalking. It's very ordinary people who do that. That could be the baker. They can be people who do not look like the criminals Mr Wilders is always so fond of talking about. The question is: how can we prevent this group being stalked, threatened, from helping?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u99	Preventively helping? I don't know if we can help people preventively. I do know that if people have been convicted of criminal behavior, which is a third of all crimes in the Netherlands, non-Western immigrants are punished harshly and severely. That's what you have to do. I believe in behavioral effects. If you've done something, if you know what kind of criminal act you've done, if you've used violence, if that's proven, if you're convicted by the judge and you're being punished, then that sentence should be enough to make sure you don't use violence again next time. But again, in practice, it turns out that one in three out of 147.000 suspects of crimes in the Netherlands in 2020 were non-Western immigrants. Those are the facts, although that is annoying for Mr Azarkan. That also means that two out of three are others. But we do not have 33% non-Western immigrants in the Netherlands. The fact that one in three is a non-Western immigrant means a heavy overrepresentation in proven crimes of... I don't want to say "of your people"; that would be unfriendly. But there is a heavy overrepresentation of non-Western immigrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u100	I know the difference between absolute and relative; Mr Wilders does not have to explain this to me. But he walks away from the question I asked. Because we're too late when we see in the statistics that people die. Again, I was just telling you that more than half of the deaths aren't those serious criminals. Those are just people walking around the perpetrator's perimeter. My point is that we can certainly see much better how we can protect those people. When women ring the bell because they're being stalked or because they've been abused in the past, we can't do that much. The question is: can we afford that as a society? Will we wait until that person, often a woman, gets into the statistics? Then Mr Wilders says: yes, that is the case; there is nothing we can do about it preventively. That's too skinny, isn't it? If people ask for help, we can help them, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u101	No, I have another line. I believe that there is a preventive effect of severe punishment. If anyone's done anything, if that's proven, if the judge's proven a violent crime, a murder, or do I know anything, then you're gonna have to punish that heavily, and I know how many years I'm gonna put that in jail. I think that's the only and the best way to make sure that future people don't get that in their heads anymore. That's my way: afterwards, after proven, people are severely punished. Then others will leave it out of their heads to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u102	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u103	But that doesn't work. Mr Wilders knows that, too. So it's not about what Mr Wilders wants...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u104	You're asking me what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u105	No, it's about what scientists think. It's about what experts think. And those who say that punishing harder just doesn't help. You can see much better how you can assist people at an earlier stage, so you don't say afterwards: you've given a lot of signals, but we just haven't done anything with it until the moment it went too far. If the deterrent effect proposed by Mr Wilders were to work, would the number of deaths in the Netherlands be much less? We need to help people sooner if they're asking for help, Mr. Wilders. You could take an example of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u106	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We should make sure that if Achmed or Henk are also Dutch, of course, but they are more Achmeds than Henks............................................................................................... It just has to be skinny, with little visitors. It just has to hurt. Being in prison for a violent crime should just hurt. If that doesn't hurt... That was the example I quoted from Italy. What the Italian government is doing with regard to the Mafia is simply holding them firmly on an almost beastly regime. No contacts, no television, nothing at all. Visit once a month, and then still filmed. That works. People don't want to end up in a situation like this, so they're gonna let it go next time. That doesn't apply to all of them. You'll never be able to completely eradicate crime. But you can make some people think. That's much better than your preemptive bullshit. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch on one also means that we want our freedom back, a freedom that we lost because of the Corona policy, and which was promised that we would get it back. "Getting freedom back," that sounds weird. Freedom is ours. The fact that we lost it is bad, but we want it back now. Corona will never leave, but the corona crisis is really over. But instead of going back to the old normal, you won't be able to go to your favorite restaurant or stam bar without QR code anytime soon. And that's not meant to guarantee safety at the café or restaurant, because if you're fully vaccinated, you can still get and pass on corona. No, it's meant to falsely pressure people into getting pricked. That's pure urge, and unacceptable. Mr. Chairman. We're all done. Almost everyone has antibodies. There are less than 200 people, or about 200 people, on the ic. And there is no longer any reason to introduce any restrictions on freedom. Sell them off and don't enter any creepy tickets. Mr. Chairman. What we must do is invest, invest in hospitals, in intensive care, in ic-beds, in intensives, in ICU nurses, in all that you've left behind, Mr. Rutte, all that you've broken down. 'Cause you've broken it all down... hospitals, ICU units, first aid units. We must rebuild what has been lost. Of course, we should start by raising the salaries for the care staff. And don't tell me there's not enough money. Then give less money to Africa or the European Union. Or quit that priceless open-border policy, because it's priceless. Non-Western immigration has cost us net as much as EUR 433 billion since 1995 and will cost us another 650 billion over the next 20 years in the event of a policy that is unchanged. So that's 1,000 billion euros for non-Western immigrants. That is taxpayers' money that we could have spent on education, on care, on tax cuts, on pensions, on extra roads or on extra police. If we had closed the borders earlier, we could have saved mountains of gay hatred, female circumcision, anti-Semitism, street terror, honour vengeance, discrimination and terrorist attacks throughout the Netherlands and Europe. Madam President. I say it every year, and I repeat it every year, until once it penetrates people's brains: Islam is an existential problem. Not just any problem, but an existential problem. Our existence is at stake. 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands believe that their own Islamic rules, such as Sharia, are more important than our secular laws. This means that everything is at stake: our way of life, our values, our freedom, our tolerance. Everywhere Islam is great, the misery is great. And there's no hiding that either. We all know the example of the GroenLinks alderman in Amsterdam who tried to cover up a report that showed that it was mainly Moroccans who committed homophobia and violence in his capital city, in our capital city, Amsterdam. I'm not making it up. It's in that report. Mr. Chairman. The PVV doesn't look the other way. We will continue to fight for our freedom and thus against the Islamisation of the Netherlands. No price is too high, no matter how heavy it may be. No fatwa, no threat, no political exclusion or conviction will stop me. The words "give up" and "stop" do not appear in my dictionary. Mr. Chairman. It is exactly 20 years ago this month that thousands of innocent people died in the United States. Our current leaders have learned nothing from that. They continue to Islamize the Netherlands. The next stream of people, from Afghanistan, is already coming. Afghanistan is a country where 95% of its inhabitants are in favour of Sharia, where 85% of people are stoners in adultery and 39% of its inhabitants support suicide attacks. But Rutte says, "Come over here, welcome, we'll buy tie." And in her speech for Elsevier, Mrs Kaag says that a clash between cultures often provides the key to human progress. But if there was one clash between cultures somewhere, then there was on Nine Eleven. We all know where that led: four hijacked planes, collapsed towers, 3,000 dead. But also afterwards and before that there was in the name of Islam and the prophet of all evil, Muhammad, much more misery. That's not progress, it's suffering. That's suffering because of the hatred towards the West. I have lost my own freedom for 17 years because of the hatred of Islam critics, the hatred of the free word, against freedom in general. And instead of fighting, instead of fighting together to get back and preserve our freedom, the cabinet is only bringing more hatred and terror into the Netherlands. I don't understand. I'll never understand that. I find it unforgivable. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands needs real leadership, politicians who stand up against the political correctness, against that rotten old power policy and the Islamization of the Netherlands, politicians who cast the yoke of that new "DDR," the Democratic Republic of Rutte, instead of hugging themselves, to politicians who stand up for the ordinary man and woman, not for their job or power. It's not tuning cattle, it's principles. Not apathy, but resistance. We must stop the betrayal of the Netherlands. That's our expensive duty. Because what a wonderful country the Netherlands would be if politicians were to start doing their job again, deal with the safety, prosperity and health of Dutch people. If they fight for the preservation of our culture and our freedom. That we have another country where our children are offered a bright future, and where hard-earned taxpayers' money is spent on our own people again. A country where Dutch people stand on one again. That Netherlands is my Netherlands. That is the Netherlands of the PVV. That is the Netherlands where millions of people crave. That's our country. And that's not gonna work with this cabinet. That is not going to work with the parties that have been trying to form for six months, and that is not going to work. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to conclude, and I would ask the Chamber to allow me to table a motion in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u107	I'm gonna take a look at the MPs and see if there's any support for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u108	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u109	No. I also propose that we really just have the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u110	No support, I see, from the CDA. PvdA no support either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u111	We still have to stick to the rules we came up with. If we are going to do this sort of thing at every debate with the first speaker in the first term... I'm just not in favour of that. That really must remain an exception, so no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u112	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u113	No objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u114	There's no support for your request, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u115	Well, Mr. President, I won't be filing the motion, but I did read out half a minute of this; that's my decision. My motion, and then I submit it in the second term, but the people at home could have heard him say: 'The Chamber, heard the debate, asks the government to dissolve the Chamber and to issue new elections, and moves to the order of the day'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u116	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. There is another question from Mr Segers, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u117	Thank you, Madam President. This is not about the motion that is yet to be tabled, but about parts of Mr Wilders' contribution. There are many parts that are really substantively critical of cabinet policy, and that is legitimate. Those are the substantive proposals he makes. But sometimes he also makes it incredibly personal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u118	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u119	Incrediblely personal. Then Mr Wilders makes it very personal, towards Mrs Kaag, towards Mr Rutte. My simple question is, why? Why does he need that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u120	Well, thank you. First of all, I make a lot of substantive proposals, from legislative initiative proposals to how the money should be spent differently, for the elderly, for the police, for the most part. But this is my way of debating. I believe that the cabinet, as well as Mr Rutte, has betrayed our country. "Treason" is a big word, but I mean every word of it. And I'm not gonna talk about that with flour in my mouth. The moment you, while the Netherlands is in big trouble, that we don't have homes in the Netherlands, that we have a lot of crime in the Netherlands, that people don't know how to get by on their pension or salary, when the cabinet ignores all that, spends 7 billion euros on climate, does nothing else... Yeah, I think that's giving away our country, opening the borders, for even more Afghans or whatever... Yeah, I've just had enough of that, and I can't get away from that in the hardest possible terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u121	You may distance yourself from political choices on content with the hardest possible terms, but you really cross a line when you make it so personal. And Mr Wilders doesn't just do that here, but he does that online. If the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security says that there is a relationship between public debate, political debate, and the level of threat, with people who indeed sometimes have to fear all kinds of threats... If Mr Wilders knows that, and he knows that like no other, and I will praise the day when he can walk the streets in freedom and not deal with that threat... But if you know that, then I don't understand why you're making it so personal, that you're gonna look up that line and try to get into that other guy's pain line. While you can just keep it businesslike, and with the hardest words you can distance yourself from substantive policies and political choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u122	That's a false interruption. That's allowed. Anything's allowed, but it's a false interruption. It suggests that I have anything to do with violence, that I would call for it or give rise to it. I have nothing to do with the NCTV when it comes to this kind of analysis. I'm dealing with what I'm saying. I will say in the most harsh terms what I think of Mrs Kaag, of Mr Rutte, of knowing who I am. But of course I've been doing it from this place, in a nonviolent, democratic way, for years. I'll keep doing that. I'm not gonna let you talk me into saying that this could lead to any crazy person who knows what I'm doing. I do know what that means. I know what it means, for 17 years. I really do not allow anyone, a life without freedom, for 17... I give Mr Rutte less than a week, less than a month, or no know-it-it-all. But I'll tell you what I think. It has nothing to do with violence. And I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u123	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u124	Words matter. Words always have effect. What I want to ask Mr Wilders is to think again before you send that tweet. Think again before you so personally launch the attack on political opponents, which you are allowed to fight on content in all intensity and intensity. That's what we do here. That is what we are doing here with words. We'll do it in complete freedom. But when the NCTV says that words have an impact, that words matter and that words have a direct impact, including on the security situation, including individuals, also on those of people here, do you have to think very carefully before you do anything? I want to think about it when I read Mr Wilders' tweets, when he shows all the threats again. That goes through marrow and leg. Then my heart breaks and I think: for heaven's sake, when will the day come when Mr Wilders can just say what he wants on the corner of the street? He can't, and I'm really sorry about that. But we all have a responsibility. I would like to call on Mr Wilders to take his responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u125	Again a very dirty, false interruption. I'll put it next to me three times. I am not going to do what Mr Segers says either. But I want to respond to one thing. The people who have been threatening me for 17 years, which means I can't even empty my own mailbox at home and have completely lost my freedom, are people who say to me every day, sometimes every hour, that they want to cut my head off, that they want to pull my guts out, that they want to burn me and that they want to shoot ten bullets through my family. They're sending blood to the chamber in tubes to give a signal. That's all direct, direct, focused on: Wilders must die. Of course it is false what you are saying, because you are now suggesting that mine should be aligned. That's fake. For one of the Christian Union, that is more false than false. That's what I'm dealing with. What I'm doing is that I'm nonviolent and democratic. There are over 1 million people who voted for me here in the House of Representatives telling me what I think. That has nothing to do with violence. I'm not gonna let you talk me into that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u126	Mr Segers and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u127	I'm not a fake.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u128	False than false.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u129	It is a sincere appeal to you that what is happening, the polarization that we are seeing now in society, even in this corona time... We see that few words are needed to bring other people to mind to do something that we all do not want it to happen. So my call is: keep it business, keep it content, don't make it personal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u130	My call is: you are more false than false. Your interruption goes into my trash three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u131	In addition to the last words Mr Wilders said before he finished his last block: he was talking about traitors. He said, "Resistance." My question to him is, what does he mean by that? What does he ask who? What are these people supposed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u132	I was talking about the betrayal of the Netherlands. I wasn't talking about traitors, I was talking about the betrayal of the Netherlands. That's beyond a shadow of a doubt. People who have our culture, our security, our money, everything you have, our existence... that's why I also talked about an existential problem. Mass immigration, Islamization, is an existential problem. The Netherlands will no longer exist if we continue to do so. In the three major cities is the majority of babies, children, who are born already non-western immigrants. They're not all going to be horrible people, but it's a culture. It means that the Netherlands will be destroyed. Meanwhile, we spend billions on climate, we spend billions on immigration, billions on development aid, on Africa, and I-I know what kind of crazy we do and we abandon our own people. They live in difficult neighborhoods where they suffer from thugs, Moroccan or otherwise, who make their streets unsafe, who rape their daughters, scream at them or sizzle at them, I know anything. They don't have homes because people come into our country. They are instantly out of benefits, because a VVD is going to say: we have to cut the assistance, because 52% of all welfare payments, EUR 3 billion per year, go to assistance for non-Western immigrants alone. 3 billion euros a year! Meanwhile, we say, they say, "Come on in." That's treason from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u133	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u134	Mr Wilders knows more than anyone what it is like to be threatened. It's terrible what's happened to him for years. And I'd like that to end soon. But he also knows that that happens because others call out things. It often starts with words. And they can inspire others. Of course, Mr Wilders himself can say: I say that it must always be democratic, with words. But of course he doesn't know what others are doing. He doesn't know what others are doing, who are going to do things like treason, who are going to stick it to politicians, who are going to come here in the wrong way. We've seen Breivik kill 79 children. And in that manifesto of Breivik was 33 Wilders. Of course, that wasn't an accident. That is not because Mr Wilders said: do it peacefully. That was far from it. Like Mr Segers, I would also like to say to Mr Wilders: weigh your words, because they matter. If you speak of treason, there are traitors there. And when you talk about resisting, there are people who do something about it. They're gonna yell at refugees. They're gonna set things on fire. They're gonna hurt mosques in one form or another. We shouldn't want that with each other, should we? There you have a responsibility, Mr. Wilders. You can't run away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u135	I say what I think, and I always will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u136	We have been listening to this long and inconsistent speech by Mr Wilders for quite some time now. I also see that attention is slacking. And that's because this is the tirade we've been hearing from Mr Wilders for years. It's the tirade of fear. Fear of Mrs Kaag. Fear of the other. Fear of the Afghans who helped us and who have been there for our Dutch. Fear of lhbti'ers. What I do not understand is that Mr Wilders then has another speech for society. But all Mr Wilders wants for society is fear. And I wonder, Mr. Wilders, do you want us Dutch people to live in a society of fear?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u137	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u138	I want a beautiful society. I want the Netherlands to be so much more beautiful and stronger. I've explained that in my entire term, for about an hour. I want us to give our homes back to our own people. I don't want us to give our money to the Italians and the Portuguese. You are such a europhile who prefers to give it to everyone in Europe. I want us to spend that 45 billion back in the Netherlands. I want our people to be safe in their neighborhoods and their daughters to be safe. I do not want to see asylum seekers in 60, 70, 80 or 90 towns and villages again, with those dangerous, fraudulent people who are often among them. I don't want any new terrorist attacks in the Netherlands. I want the most beautiful thing for the Netherlands. I want a beautiful Netherlands. And people like you, they achieve the opposite. You are the person who makes the Netherlands a negative country. You say with your party Volt: come in; we surrender our sovereignty for the benefit of the European Union; we give our money to all those countries and let everyone come into the Netherlands. You're destroying the Netherlands. I fight for a beautiful Netherlands against people like you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u139	The only thing that is good in Mr Wilders' speech that I just heard is that he opened his eyes a little bit to see what was going well in other European countries, namely the Mafia legislation that was going on in Italy. I believe there is much more we could learn from other countries, other cultures and other people. But then we should not be afraid and sit here behind the dikes and behind the front doors, because we are afraid of what would happen to us otherwise. That's the society I want to stand for. And that is contrary to what Mr Wilders is arguing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u140	What naivety, what an incredibly naivety when it comes to what can happen! I say to Mr Dassen through you: it is already happening. It's already happening! Everything I call it: from terrorist attacks to the shortage of homes where asylum seekers go first, to a third or more than half of our assistance to non-Western immigrants, to our daughters who can no longer be safe on the streets. Everything I say is already happening, and you say, "more, more, more." Mr. Dassen wants more. He wants to sell our sovereignty to the European Union. You are destroying the whole of the Netherlands and I am fighting it. My Netherlands is a positive, powerful, proud Netherlands, where our own people are number one, where we think about our pensioners rather than the people who want to do something for climate, where we think about the safety of our people, where we want our culture, where we can celebrate sinterklaas, where we can just say what we think of our national heroes, where we abolish that wok-witness, where our children at school learn language and math instead of crazy gender cookies. Just, a normal Netherlands, what we once had but what was given away by your predecessors. That's the Netherlands I want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u141	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. Then I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u142	Mr. Chairman. It doesn't escape anyone in the Netherlands. It is restless in The Hague, and I still express myself with caution. Let me be very clear. I don't want to trivialize any of the events of the past few months. Serious things have come to light, and I certainly do not run away from the responsibility of my party. But the fact is that we have talked a lot about ourselves in this Chamber over the last few months. Who said what about who, what happened now and what consequences did that have for cooperation? It caused heated debates, on serious issues, I say that again, so there is really no misunderstanding about that. But it has not contributed to the general picture of politics. Yesterday, Ipsos found that the confidence of Dutch people in politics has fallen, from a sufficient to an insufficient. So people do not have enough confidence that we are solving today's major problems. I can therefore imagine that, if you are sitting at home watching politics, you are thinking: what is happening in The Hague? Are they working on themselves or are they sitting there for us? Are they solving the country's problems? Is that politics working for me or against me? So I can understand that people have this feeling and they ask these questions, but it affects me personally and it even hurts me. Because I want to be proud of our parliament. I want to admire and respect all Members of Parliament and all those people around us who come to The Hague every day, because I sincerely feel that everyone wants to do the very best for this country. Of course we all do it from our own convictions and ideals, with our own dreams. We are all focused on making this country even more beautiful and solving problems. At least that's why I'm in politics. The stories, the experiences, the problems of people, their dreams for their lives, here in our country, that is my inspiration. These stories are in my bag, the bag I carry every day to The Hague. Mr. Chairman. Resilience, entrepreneurship and optimism. When it really matters, we stand next to each other instead of facing each other. That's the Netherlands for me. For example, in this country we've been through so many times and managed things, with still fresh in our memory corona. 17 million people have made their contribution and are still contributing every day. We went home to work, we gave the zoom drinks by language and counting to our kids, we bought massively locally, we stepped into MEWPs to have coffee in front of the window with parents, grandpas and grandmothers in the nursing home. Entrepreneurs came up with new things to keep on doing. And what about this summer in Limburg in those terrible floods? Within no time our soldiers were on their way to drag sandbags and strengthen dikes. Sleeping places were arranged for people who had to leave their homes head-on. We always see that when something terrible happens in our country, in the event of disasters such as the Bijlmer or Enschede. Then the whole country will be around the victims. But even if a family is hit by fire in a neighborhood. Then new furniture is collected within a few hours, children are taken in or meals are cooked. That's just us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u143	Thank you. There are a number of interruptions, first of all Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA and then Mr Klaver van GroenLinks, then Mr Azarkan, Mrs Van der Plas, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Van der Staaij. So we're gonna do all the interruptions in a row. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u144	Mrs Hermans is right. If there are problems in your neighborhood or with your family, the Dutch are ready for each other. That is precisely why it is so disappointing that the party of Mrs Hermans, the VVD, the largest party in this country, has been stalling with formation for six months now and making it a chaos. The contrast between the shoulders of the Dutch and the chaos and unwillingness of the VVD is quite great. But Mrs Hermans is right. Box K makes a mess of it, the formation is not progressing, but we can do something as a Chamber and as representatives of the people. This is the time, I would like to tell Mrs Hermans, when we can do something for people. The economy is growing, that's good news, but Dutch people don't notice that in their wallet. Does Mrs Hermans agree with me that it is not the large companies that should benefit from this economic growth, but the ordinary people in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u145	I doubt whether I will go into the first part of Mrs Ploumen's speech, but I shall confine myself to answering her question. It is a legitimate and understandable question. In my opinion, the balance that you always have to make in politics is how you divide money, how you make choices and solve certain problems and take steps. This starts with the cabinet that draws up a budget and then to the Lower House when assessing that budget. I think that with the choices made by the cabinet I will ask a few more questions about it, it is in order in the basics, but there is a lot going on. There is a lot ahead of us and I do not want 2022 to be a lost year. So I'm really looking for where we can hang out as a room to see if there's anything else we can do. I very much agree with Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u146	I'll make you a deal. Instead of reducing taxes on companies, we can ensure that this amount ends up in the wallet of people who have had a hard time in the last year and a half, who have worked through, but have not noticed anything in their wallet of economic growth. My question to Mrs Hermans is very simple: do you support the proposal not to allow business tax cuts to continue and instead to allow ordinary people to benefit from the work of hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u147	What I want is for us to work together these two days, or at least to work together. I have thought about this, there has been a lot of press about it, and I would like to do a hand-out from our side. You're talking about a tax advantage for companies. Let me mention the animal by the name, then we are talking about the BIK, an amount that is still reserved in the budget. The VVD Group is willing to look into that and look together to see if we can come up with a different distribution for the use of the money that is now reserved as BIK money to do something extra on a number of points that we all think is necessary. If Mrs Ploumen asks me whether I want to use that in one go for the destination she envisages, I find that complicated. There are too many issues and there are still a lot of speakers coming up after me with their wishes and ideas. I should like to take stock of this at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u148	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u149	I'm not suggesting moving a little money from here to there, making deals or making a little deal with each other. I suggest we really go a different way. That we stop placing multinationals above people, that we not only allow economic growth to benefit those who already have it right, but to distribute it fairly. I appreciate the goodwill of Mrs Hermans, but I would like to tell her that the point is that we are going in a different direction with the Netherlands. We have seen what has resulted in four years of right-wing policy: nothing for people. So don't slide a little bit here and there, just make sure that the cake is distributed fairly and differently, and that people are going to benefit from economic growth, not the multinationals again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u150	I find it complicated. Look, Ms. Ploumen makes different choices. I've seen and read proposals in the media, and she's making different choices than I should go to where money should go or where it should go with the country. It's possible. It's okay. We're both from another party. But I don't think the hand-out I'm doing is taking off now as just a deal and a bit of a slide, and I don't think I'm doing justice to the sincere attempt I'm making here to see if we can take a few steps together. Do I agree with you that it is never how much we really want to do? I think so; I also have wishes that go beyond how they are now in the budget and then where they will probably land tomorrow, at the end of the debate. But at the end of the debate, the question is: do you want to take a small step or don't do anything at all? And then I always choose that first one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u151	I think the beginning of the speech is very hopeful. We have to do business with each other here in politics. I've been thinking for months that we should start negotiating a majority cabinet. I also think that we should not try to correct the image of arguing politicians in these political discussions, but should be politicians who deliver and solve people's problems. But I find it difficult for Mrs Hermans to say that she is prepared to speak about 1 billion of a total budget of 350 billion. That is 0.3% of the total budget. I don't think that fits in with the new governance culture we're talking about. We are all independent elected representatives of the people, and that means that we are talking about the whole budget, and therefore also about the adjustment of the whole budget. That is why my specific question to Mrs Hermans is: is she prepared to talk about the whole budget, and not just about that 1 billion of the BIK?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u152	Of course. We are discussing and debating the whole budget here. Mrs Ploumen asked me a very specific question, and I am against it where I would like to give a hand-out. We can discuss the whole budget and then I think we can have a lot of interesting discussions about a lot of things, but it will have to be seen whether we will agree on everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u153	That is our task. We're not a debate club. We must help this country and the problems are immense. I am glad that Mrs Hermans says that it is not just about the one billion of the BIK. Then it's parked. I am pleased with that, because I felt put away as an opposition for a moment, of: we still have EUR 1 billion here and you can talk about how you spend it. But I understand that is not the case. That's good. Then there is my substantive question. At the moment, the housing crisis is one of the greatest, most acute crises. There are people who cannot find a home, and if they already have a home, they have lost a far too large percentage of their income to mainly rent. Is Mrs Hermans prepared to take major steps in this respect? I am thinking, for example, of abolishing the landlord's tax to ensure that rentals on the housing market do not increase further. I am thinking of adapting the housing valuation system and at least more closely monitoring it. Is it prepared to take major steps in these two days?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u154	I think that Mr Klaver, with the housing market, indeed raises one of those issues where people look at The Hague and say, "Solve something, make more houses available when I graduate or I can go to a bigger house when family enlargement is coming." I think this is one of those subjects that we will be discussing very much over the next two days, and I am also open to suggestions and ideas from everyone in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u155	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u156	Let us now talk about the content. For example, we are proposing the landlord levy. The landlord levy has such an effect on housing corporations, which have to build for the middle segment and which have to ensure that the rents do not increase too fast. It would be very helpful if we could take a big step there. I made a proposal for this and I'm actually curious about how the VVD looks at this. I have only heard so far that there is a billion available, but we need to take steps on that housing market. Then let me ask you a very specific question. Will you be here with me to get rid of the landlord's tax? Are you going to join me in making sure that the rents won't rise any further next year? Are you going to work with me to ensure that all those young people in the Netherlands can find a home?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u157	I think we're very busy with that last one. That is what Mr Klaver and I are all in agreement with. Then come the means or the steps you want to take. I see and I hear from all the stories that the landlord tax puts pressure on corporations. At the same time, I see what amounts are involved. I would therefore like to see whether we can perhaps achieve a partial reduction in this levy. I would like to put one thing to the contrary. I would like us to make performance agreements with corporations, so that we can be sure that there will also be construction in exchange for such an investment discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u158	We're doing interruptions in threes at the most. Mr Wilders reminded me just now, so let's do it that way. I thought that was a valid point. Mr Azarkan and then Mrs Van der Plas of BBB. First of all, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u159	In connection with the housing problem, because we saw that problem coming years ago. Now there's something in there that's about the housing stock. In the last ten years, we've sold about 260,000 properties. About eight or nine years ago, I had a visit from a lobbyist who wanted the government to make that easier. I was against it; that surprised him, by the way. I didn't think it was a good idea to sell those properties, because that's gonna put the stock under pressure. In 2017, a law was passed that makes it much easier for investors. Parties like Round Hill Capital have bought tens of thousands of homes. Shouldn't we reverse that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u160	I'm not against selling houses. I also think that there are a lot of good parties that handle homes in rental or sales in a good way. But I also see that I agree with Mr Azarkan that there are investors or investors who use these properties as an investment property and then the houses at high prices, huge amounts of money, rent or resell. I'd like to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u161	What does that look like? We've seen places where housing corporations are rejecting entire complexes, which are called complex. In the past, until 2017, if that happened, the housing corporation would still receive 50% of the profits made 30 years later. All this has been abolished because the investors who are in Mrs Herman's natural constituency had to make even more money. They had to dangle even more from the poor people who already had so little. Again, what could we do to counteract the disadvantages? It can't be that you live in a rental house, get chased out and a while later the same rental house with a small adjustment becomes twice as expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u162	I think Mr Wilders mentioned it in his speech. For example, you can think of something like a buy-back protection, so it doesn't just roll through and through. I believe that we have already agreed on transfer tax in last year's budget. It will be increased just for this group. In my view, these are all steps that should contribute to it. Investors' investments have exactly the wrong effect on the housing market. We can now see that in a number of places.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u163	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u164	The increased transfer tax has only a limited effect, because we see that the houses are becoming even more expensive. I would like to think further about this and see how Mrs Hermans can think about protecting our social housing so that we do not undermine it. Otherwise, we can build a lot more. We're just not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u165	There are some interruptions. First Mrs van der Plas van BBB, then Mrs Marijnissen van de SP, Mr Van der Staaij van de SGP, Mrs Ouwehand van de Partij voor de Dieren, Mr Heerma van de CDA and then, I think, Mr Omtzigt. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u166	It almost went wrong, didn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u167	I saw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u168	I've already warned you it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u169	But you're still standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u170	Of course, with the back straight. I actually have a question for Mrs Hermans. I was a little interested in seeing each other in the Chamber. Trust in politics has fallen. A lot starts here. A lot of people are watching these days, partly thanks to working at home. I hear from many people that they are listening to the debate while working. I am curious to see what Mrs Hermans thinks about the fact that when Members of Parliament are speaking, interrupting or tabling a motion, members of the cabinet, including people from her own party, looking at their calls or really talking to each other in depth. That seems very indecent, even to citizens. I often get these comments and I think the President of the Chamber too. Is there any mention of this within your own group or within Mrs Hermans' own group, about the rules of decency, how we deal with each other here? Just really simple: if someone is talking, you just shouldn't talk through it, for example. Or if someone's talking, don't look at the call. I noticed just now that once Mrs Hermans is speaking, Mr Rutte is almost hanging on her lips and listening very interestedly to you, which is right. But when other people are talking, the attention actually goes away and there is spoken again or watched on the phone. Do you discuss how you deal with this in the group?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u171	We in the group have the agreement that we listen to each other and let each other talk out. We also want to show this behaviour here in the Chamber. That's what we're trying to do. That's what we do. I agree with you that the use of phones and iPads... If you are looking at a debate, I can very well imagine that you think: what are these people doing, if I may say so domestically. I also believe that this use should be kept to a minimum. I would like to add one thing, because I myself find that you sometimes want to look up some information quickly, to indicate a question or a comment from a colleague or to ask a question afterwards. But in principle I agree with Mrs van der Plas, I say through you, Madam President, that when we are in the Chamber, we all have a moral duty, let me put it this way, to listen to each other and to deal with what is happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u172	I support Mrs Van der Plas in her appeal. Indeed, many people who follow the debate also send me e-mails. So I support Mrs van der Plas' request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u173	One small comment, because I think that Mrs Hermans has partly understood my call, but some of it does not. It is not so much about me... It is true: a lot of Members of Parliament are also getting information from the policy staff or last minute something that has appeared in the media, which might be relevant to the debate. That is very difficult to explain, but I think we should continue to explain that. I wasn't so much concerned with what MPs do, but it's also important. I was more concerned with what the members of the cabinet do when Members of parliament are speaking, who control the cabinet. I'm talking about last week, for example. A number of times when interruptions were being committed, there was simply a detailed discussion about something, while the one who is doing the interruption, then at that time there is a bit of a joke. That's actually what I'm talking about. Are you also talking about this in the group? Of course, you also have people from the VVD in the cabinet. I do not know whether you are the chairman of the political group or Mr Rutte, because I have looked at the House of Representatives, and I believe that the outgoing Prime Minister is still on it as chairman of the political group. Are you referring to this code of conduct?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u174	Yes, as I said just now, we are pointing this out to each other in the group. Mr Rutte "Demissionary Prime Minister" and also member of the VVD Group and chairman of the group; I am acting chairman of the political group, who occasionally attends the group meeting. Not very often, I can tell you. If that's what he's about when he's there, then of course he should be. For the rest, everyone in this Chamber, including the members of the cabinet, the people who are in trade-K, should listen, and I think that they are genuinely interested in what is being exchanged here between Members of Parliament. Because it benefits the debate, because it benefits the response, and because it ultimately improves the solutions we are here for, the policies we make to solve problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u175	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP and then to Mrs Ouwehand of the Animal Party. Sorry, Mrs. Marijnissen was earlier. Do you mind if I give the floor first to Mr Van der Staaij and then to you? Yes. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u176	Mr President, we are all a little confused that Mrs Kaag has now joined us. You're very welcome. My question is about the fact that Mrs Hermans called it 'the dubbed trust'. An important point. I notice that on the streets we are all, I think, often challenged by the question of whether there will be another cabinet in The Hague. Isn't restoring trust really starting with the weeding of doing everything that is possible to form that cabinet? How does Mrs Hermans see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u177	That is a very fair question from Mr Van der Staaij, because of course the feeling of trust is also connected with that. I understand that and I totally agree with it. It annoys me... I heard Mr Jetten yesterday say: I also find it frustrating that there is still no cabinet. I totally share that feeling. So that's one of our assignments when it comes to restoring trust, but it's not the only one. It's not the only one. It's also about us just doing our job, solving the things that play and the questions that people have. The affordable house has already passed a few times, but also the security in our country, the security of our country in the world and the climate issues that lie ahead. It's just gonna happen. Whether or not a cabinet, missionary or missionary: those questions play in the here and now, in the lives of everyday people. I believe that we should also deliver on this and show that we are at work, because that ultimately leads to the confidence that people can and must have in us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u178	Sure. It will be important to make that happen in the near future, because the impatience and discomfort about it will of course increase by the day. Another point of confidence, in my view, is that when it comes to concrete climate plans, the VVD very often says that it must be feasible and affordable. At the same time, we see in this budget that billions are being spent on the basis of a court ruling that says to politics: you had once committed yourself to a certain percentage somewhere, so you have to live up to that. So the judge's gonna dictate what our expenses are. That's not good for trust either. My question to the VVD, to Mrs Hermans, is: do we actually learn from that? I see a pattern with a Framework Directive on Water, CO emissions, nitrogen and methane. A few days ago I noticed that the VVD also agrees with the tightening of ambitions. And then she says for a number of years: this is actually going too fast, we didn't really mean this and we really can't live up to this. So how does the VVD deal with this point? What do we do to prevent this from happening over and over again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u179	Maybe I could specifically zoom in on that climate issue? This would actually be a bit later in my speech, but perhaps this is a good time for that. Mr Van der Staaij says that we are actually being chased by judgments. I share what he says. I will be very honest about it: the VVD Group, my group, has not been ahead of it in recent years. And we are going to do this differently now because we fully see and recognise the importance of tackling these climate problems now. The events in Limburg last summer have made it very tangible and brought it very close. So looking back, I say, no, we didn't get ahead and the speed didn't come from us. But looking ahead, I say yes, action is needed. However, I come to the point of 'feasible and affordable'. That point will stand for us. This is such a big issue that demands so much of all of us, that we must ensure that we can all continue to participate and experience it. That is why I believe that the VVD Group considers the choices made by this cabinet to be good choices, namely to help companies with subsidies to make more sustainable faster, but also to help households and families with, for example, making their homes more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u180	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u181	Finally. "Available and affordable" are valid principles. However, I would argue that this should be considered seriously at the moment when you say 'yes' to a particular objective, for example in the area of climate, in the field of biodiversity or in any area. These things are all very useful and valuable, but we do need to know what we are doing when we say 'yes' to a strengthened objective. In practice, this is often only the case much later. That would be my call. Finally, Mr President. It is my last interruption, but I would like to make one point on the budget. Mrs Hermans himself mentioned Limburg, and the fact that the military did a good job there. But in all armies we hear the same soldiers ringing the alarm bell. We're hearing about a Hercules plane that can't take off anymore, about naval ships lying at the docks, about exercises that can't go on. We also hear that the money that is now in this budget is simply not enough to deal with even that overdue maintenance. Is this one of the subjects of which the VVD says: yes, we will have to do more about it than is currently in the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u182	In my opinion, the VVD and the SGP are very much in line with the importance of defence and also with the importance of investing extra in it in the coming years. So it is also a wish for me to do more if we manage to find a majority for that, because it is close to both of us. I believe that last summer, both inland and abroad, demonstrated the importance of our armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u183	I wonder whether Mrs Hermans saw the movie last Monday only against the state about the mothers who have fallen victim in the supplement scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u184	The answer to that is: no, I haven't seen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u185	Then it is in a sense convenient that this film will soon be shown here in the House of Representatives on the initiative of the SP. I would therefore like to warmly invite Mrs Hermans to attend, like all Members of Parliament. The film is, in short, about the mothers, who tell how the supplement scandal has had a direct impact on their lives, but especially on their children's lives. The worst thing about all this is that this is happening to this day. Rutte III has resigned because of the surcharge scandal, but still these people are literally in the shit. How does Mrs Hermans feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u186	There are hardly any words for that. Of course, that affects me in a terrible way. I was actually trying to make a picture of how all these stories together should make a far-reaching picture in the film or documentary you mentioned. "Like" may not be the right word, but I'd be happy to accept your invitation. So I feel terrible and I feel extremely responsible and motivated with everyone in this Chamber and with everyone in politics to do everything possible to alleviate what we can. I read an interview in a newspaper yesterday or today, with one of the parents who said: "Compensation is no longer possible, because it has already happened." But I hope we can soften something and make something better for the future of these people. I therefore agree with Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u187	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u188	When Mrs Hermans started her speech, she spoke nicely about why she herself is in politics and about a bag of stories of people she took to The Hague every day. But I miss these people's stories so much. I think he misses them, too, that they miss being heard and seen. These people have been crushed by the government, with the VVD in front of this cabinet. We've seen where that leads. If Mrs Hermans says that it is so important that this is resolved, I would like to hear from her... By the way, one thing about this compensation: it is always about 'compensation', but this is the money that has been taken from people and that they are getting back. I think it is politically wrong to talk about 'compensation' here all the time. All the misery that has gotten away from this has yet to be compensated. This is about own money that the government has unjustly taken from people and that they need to get back now. So I think it is wrong to talk about compensation. But the least Mrs Hermans can do today is to clarify to these people: when can they expect this to be resolved? What's the deadline for you? Can we just say to these people, "Christmas will fix it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u189	The words Mrs Marijnissen said about compensation, I fully endorse. That's why I also tried to point out that it's about alleviating the suffering, but I actually think that every word you try to put on this doesn't do justice to the injustice that has been done to people and the pain that people feel every day. I understand Mrs Marijnissen's question from A to Z. I would also very much like to mention a deadline, but if I do, I am incredibly afraid that I have the confidence that these people do not already have or perhaps destroy that tiny little glimmer of hope by now mentioning a date that may not be met. Moreover, the cabinet really has to answer that question; that is, of course, very practical, but it is about my own feeling. If I mention a deadline now, I can't vouch for it. I'm afraid I'll be creating disappointment here again. This, together with the increase in the amount entered in the budget by the Cabinet, is quite apart from the fact that I believe that this whole operation should take place with absolute urgency and priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u190	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand, Party for the Animals and then Mr Heerma, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u191	These people are so hurt. There's pain on pain stacked on pain. Then it would be very nice if it was true what the VVD says here, namely: what we can do to soften, that's what we're going to do. I'm afraid that's just not true. The people who were hit by the surcharge scandal found it unimaginable to see that the cabinet had resigned, but that the same people simply went back into an election campaign as their party's list mover. There the VVD said: we are doing everything we can, but this point of yours is not. The cabinet has also denied that there were political reasons for not informing the Chamber properly. The Dutch Parliamentary Group of the VVD finally embraced those conclusions, but I can't hear the VVD anymore. Isn't that something the VVD should do, too, if she means what she says about doing everything she can to alleviate the suffering of these people? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u192	I do not know whether I fully understand Mrs Ouwehand's question. I'm not taking anything away from the report and the conclusions. We agree with that from A to Z. We had a debate on this earlier this year. Then Mrs Ouwehand tried to put some other words in my mouth. In case this is likely to happen again, let me say again: we endorse them from A to Z. Then there is the pain and the suffering. What we can and must do, we must do. I would like to say to Mrs Ouwehand that if she has a proposal on how to do this more quickly, differently or better, then I am very happy to look into it with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u193	That is good, but Mrs Hermans began her speech by saying that she would like to be proud of this Parliament. That immediately raised questions for me, not least about the premium affair. We are also dealing here with a group that has simply accepted that its own leader lied to this Parliament. Then how do you want to be proud of this parliament? You just let him get away with it! And what I'm missing here about this supplemental affair is this. The VVD says one thing, but does the other. If Mrs Hermans, on behalf of the VVD Group, believes that we must do everything we can to alleviate the suffering of these people, why do I not hear her attacking the cabinet, which insists that there are no political reasons behind the decision-making process that has destroyed human lives? The VVD Group has properly supported that motion. The funny thing was that Mr Rutte was part of that. But as leader of this missionary cabinet, he simply denies it. We now have two things, namely that Mrs Hermans says that we must do everything we can to alleviate the suffering and that Mrs Hermans says on behalf of the VVD that she wants to be proud of this Parliament. Then you have to deal with Rutte and say, "They were political reasons. If you don't admit it, you're gonna have to quit. In fact, to do justice to these parents, you should have done it a long time ago."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u194	Mrs. Ouwehand is now turning it into a political game.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u195	Now it's gonna be beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u196	I have said here that what has happened here is terrible and terrible and that we must do everything we can to alleviate that suffering. If Mrs Ouwehand has a proposal on how to do this faster and better, then I am very willing to look into it with her. Mrs Ouwehand then points out that I did not put any questions to the cabinet. But I'm only up, what shall I say, a fifth of my speech. So maybe you can wait a little longer for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u197	I hope for the best, but I can say that it is a bitch to hear the representative of the VVD Group say that I am playing political games here. What the VVD is doing here is one charade. "I want to be proud of Parliament" and then just accept that this parliament is being lied to and held on to that leader. How do you think faith in politics has fallen to a low point? That is because the citizens are constantly being lied to in the form of this parliament. We are here on behalf of the people. The VVD Group has simply accepted that this Chamber and the people of the Netherlands are being lied to and that fundamental principles are being violated in our rule of law. That was your VVD. You may make up for the rest of your speech, but do not think that the confidence of the Netherlands in politics will recover if the VVD continues to operate in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u198	Confidence in politics will recover if we join together with 150 Members of Parliament and do everything we can to do what is necessary for these parents. I repeat: if Mrs Ouwehand has a proposal for this, then I am more than willing to look at it with her and pull it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u199	Mr Heerma of the CDA, then Mr Omtzigt and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u200	With so many groups it is difficult to interrupt in a line, but I stood up when Mr Klaver's interruptions came. I want to go back to that moment in the debate. Mr Wilders stated in his term that all parties in this house, from left to right, see that the landlord levy is a problem. But that conclusion doesn't add up so far. Until now, there was one party that did not agree. At the same time, in response to Mr Klaver's questions, I have heard Mrs Hermans make a movement that I have not yet heard from the VVD. I think there is a very big problem in our housing crisis. The cabinet is now pulling out a billion dollars to pull through the housing deals. Aedes said yesterday: it is good, but it is not enough to solve the housing crisis that is now going on. My party wants to abolish the landlord's tax. That goes for more parties in this house. However, in response to the questions that have just been asked, the VVD has given the room to say: we do want to look at the landlord tax. It's very easy to sit here in generalities. Then we end with: we would have liked in theory, but yes, no one is serious about anything. Is the VVD willing to invest a substantial part in lowering the landlord's tax on the offer that has been made around those BIK funds? The condition mentioned by Mrs Hermans is actually to give the housing corporations room to use it to build affordable for both low and middle incomes. It is true that this area was also taken away from them after the parliamentary inquiry. So is the VVD willing to seriously invest hundreds of millions in lowering the landlord's tax and thereby giving housing corporations the room to build for low and middle incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u201	The VVD is willing to look at measures that help to build more homes and make more homes available. I see and I hear from colleagues here in the Chamber that the levy is an obstacle to this. I can also imagine. We have reached out, if I say so well, to see if with that BIK money we can take a step on a few files where more is needed. I repeat what I said to Mr Klaver: I am prepared to include the landlord tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u202	Is Mrs Hermans therefore prepared to argue with a majority in the cabinet that the money for this landlord levy should be brought forward for a number of years? That's what happened with the 100 million of the housing deals. It looks at how we can spend it in the very short term. If you take a few hundred million landlord tax off and order the housing corporations to do so, I have also heard the condition very well, but also the space to spend it quickly, then suddenly you are talking about a few billion that we can put into building affordable houses in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u203	I do not think that is a crazy idea at all, but I find it difficult to see for myself whether this is possible in terms of technology. I would therefore like to put this question to the cabinet, but I am absolutely positive about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u204	I too have a question about the housing market. I'll come back later on the supplement scandal, because I'm wondering about a number of statements. I just heard from the VVD that they're not against selling social housing. In many cities there are waiting lists of ten years. Ten years. Under what circumstances should a housing corporation in a city where there is a waiting list of ten years, of all kinds of people, young, old, from the Netherlands and sometimes from other countries, go about selling these properties to commercial landlords who increase the rent by 40% or 50% and also so that you can not get a rent payment? Can the speaker of the VVD give one example where that is acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u205	Mr Omtzigt now pretends that every sale always leads to these exorbitant rent increases or to extremely high resale prices. I do not think that is the case. If that is the case, then we must do something about it. I believe that I have already discussed this with Mr Azarkan. I say that I am not against it by definition, because it can contribute to creating space for housing corporations to build, to build for the people for whom they are on earth, for people with lower incomes. Because a large part of the property of housing corporations............................................................................................................................................................. I would like it if it were released by sale and investors who rent it, but really, against a middle rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u206	Now the monkey's coming out of the sleeve. The rent of social housing is around €500 to €600. The VVD proposes that these properties be sold and then rented against a middle rent. The middle rent is between €700 and €1,100 in the Netherlands. The rent will therefore be increased from €600 to €1,100. I don't think that's a good idea. So I have two questions for the VVD. Call me one example of social housing in Amsterdam, Maastricht or Enschede which has been sold and whose rents have not been significantly increased. Two. Call me one country in the world, one country except the Netherlands, which has a special tax on affordable social housing. That tax is only paid if you rent a property for less than €753 per month. If you rent her for more, you don't pay that tax. This is paid only by the housing corporations, but not by the landlords who rent the same property for more money and pay five times less tax. Call me one country in the world that has devised such a crooked tax as it has been devised under the government of VVD and Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u207	I fully agree with Mr Omtzigt that there are problems in the housing market. I also agree that we should do things about that. I have already mentioned the levy with Mr Heerma this morning and with Mr Klaver earlier. But now I think two things are taking out and thinking of solving the whole housing market problem, I find too short a turn. I therefore believe that these problems, such as the housing market, the social rent, the middle rent and the purchase, should be taken into account in the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u208	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u209	I haven't heard an example of a social rental house that has been sold and whose rent hasn't been significantly increased. None. Two. I have not heard an example of a country that has a similar tax on only affordable rentals. And I don't know it either. I took a look at that; it's just not there. But the third point of the VVD is even more interesting. There has to be a plan to solve the housing crisis. That's right. But that plan must have been there for years, and every time it isn't there. With each budget, we take a patchwork measure. One year the transfer tax for start-ups goes to 0% and for landlords to 8%. It didn't solve the problem. The other year we come up with the jubelton as a solution. The third year we come up with 100 million for the sustainability of homes as a solution. Does either the cabinet or the VVD group have a plan of five or six pages somewhere, because you don't solve this with one measure; that's how complicated it is to get out of that housing crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u210	Mr Omtzigt is right to say that a number of measures have been taken in recent years, but they have not combined led to us not being in the situation we are in. I therefore agree with Mr Omtzigt from a point of view that something fundamental must be done and that a plan must be drawn up for this. The VVD Group has ideas for that, but I think a lot of parties in the Chamber have them, and I don't think so alone, I know that for sure. In the end, we will have to reach a compromise on this: one proposal, one package in formation. That seems to me to be the place to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u211	The interruptions go in threes. Excuse me. I would like to suspend the sitting for a very short time so that some people can wash their hands for a moment. And then we go on to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u212	I'm reopening the debate. We'll proceed to the interruptions. Firstly, the interruption of Mr Segers, then Mr Klaver, then Mrs Ploumen, then Mrs Marijnissen and then Mr Jetten. But first, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u213	Yes. The pace has been taken out a little bit, but we're just gonna keep going where we left off, and that was about living. First of all, we appreciate what the VVD Group is doing here. It's a very politically complicated time, when we're just lurking at each other and we're not really getting to a missionary government. And not to let it be a lost year, the VVD says: but there is still a fence around the amount; we are now putting that on the table and let's look together for a good way to solve real current problems. So first of all, really a word of appreciation. But about living. There too I appreciate the movement of the VVD, where they say: you have a duty to self-inhabit. The VVD was never for that, but now says: I see that it can work, and I see that cities are happy with it; and this landlord tax hinders the investment task of corporations to sustain, rebuild, to ensure that lower wages, middle incomes, just in the city, or at least wherever they want to live, can live. But what I understand from Mrs Hermans is that she is now saying that part of the money could also be made available to reduce that landlord's tax. I thank her for that. That's a really important move. But what we do is get something off that growth every time. You don't have to do that in the end. And it will not be today, but in the short term, should not the entire landlord levy, in its completeness, be put on the table very critically?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u214	We may also need to go back to the introduction of the landlord's tax. That was at a very intense time, an economic crisis in which we have asked everyone to contribute to the recovery. And that is what we have asked for from corporations, and they have been contributing to this for a number of years now. Since we came out of the crisis, we have always, where possible and where possible, put space and air into this tax, to give corporations more space to invest, or to build new buildings, or to make housing more sustainable. And with all the problems in the housing market, I have said so now, and it is not for nothing in our electoral programme that we want to look at the levy in this way: can you increase the investment area by doing something with that tax? But there are many more issues, in the housing market, but also wider ones, in all the subjects we are working on. Now, of course, the bottom line is: what choices do you make as a party, and ultimately as a political team; what do you put your money on? And then we made a number of choices, for example, to invest more in defence, to invest in security, and we did not make the choice to abolish the levy in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u215	I get that. At least, I understand that the VVD makes choices and that she cares about defense. That is what the Christian Union thinks, and we, too, have allocated money to invest in defence. But at the same time, the landlord's tax. 'Cause one day it's going to be paid in for 1.7 billion. That was the beginning, under Rutte II cabinet. It's gotten caught. So we've taken something off each time, but we've only taken it off the growth. So they pay less more, the corporations, and that means that every time we grow, we still put a very heavy burden on the corporations that ultimately with their investment space have to make sure that there are affordable rental homes. Well, that investment space gets restricted every time. I get that we can't just sit on the back of a cigar box, that's not supposed to happen anymore, a cigar box, but still........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u216	On a sheet of paper!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u217	Exactly. Paul Blokhuis is listening, so I'm always aware of his tough look. But still, we can't just make a math here right now, of "that's how we're gonna cover it." But it's about direction now. If the VVD Group says "that landlord levy is a problem" and "that duty of self-inhabitation is a solution," those are the answers that the VVD Group has not previously given in that way; Mr Heerma rightly pointed out. However, if this is to be opened now, can we then continue to talk, in return for those conditions, because Mrs Hermans said that when it comes to sustainable building and building, under whatever conditions we want to think of, we should be able to take new steps in a subsequent period, so that we really get rid of that tax altogether?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u218	As I said, what we can do now in the 2022 budget will probably not be enough for many parties on all issues. But every step we can take is important and good to do. I can well imagine, having read all the election programmes, that this landlord levy will be on the table in the formation meetings. I have indicated how we look at this and how we consider the overall package of things to be done. But the fact that corporations need space to invest in sustainability and new construction is a fact. That's beyond a shadow of a doubt. Now it is not so much a picture as I would like to contradict the fact that there is no money at all, because corporations of course simply have their assets, but I also see that this tax is a burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u219	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u220	Finally. To conclude that we are indeed getting somewhere today, I see that the landlord's tax may be reduced and that the VVD has not declared it taboo to talk about it, but in an integral package. Then it is a shared desire in the Chamber, as well as in society, to get rid of this tax altogether, so that we can build affordable homes for people who need it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u221	I'm not sure what I'm going through. It is said here every time: this is what we are going to do in the formation. What formation? This should have been settled long ago in a formation: an integrated approach to this housing crisis. He's not here right now. This means that it has to be done here in Parliament. That is so refreshing, totally in public. No political party, no political group here in Parliament must accept that space is EUR 1 billion. Space is the whole budget. It is up to us to look for cover proposals. There is simply a majority in Parliament to not reduce the landlord's tax a bit, but to abolish it. There is a majority here to do more with corporate tax, so that large companies will pay more. There's plenty of cover proposals. This is also a real appeal to all colleagues: if you are now committed to just nailing down 1 billion in the budget, you haven't understood anything about the whole discussion about governance culture. We are talking about what we do, as a parliament. I would like to ask Mrs Hermans if she is really prepared to have that real conversation with each other about the landlord tax, and then altogether, and about the maximisation of the rents. We need to take steps now, no matter how complicated it is. And yes, we could have discussed this much better with each other in peace at the formation table. That table isn't here. The conversation with us has been denied. Then we will do it here, in the Chamber, because the Netherlands cannot wait until we agree on which table we are going to negotiate. Then it must be this Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u222	Of course, the debate here is about the total budget, the full budget and all the posts and all the proposals that it contains. There is also something else in the budget. You can make suggestions for that. Then we'll see if there's a majority for that. We are having a debate on this and we are discussing it with each other. The cabinet's gonna respond and then we're gonna weigh the answers. There is also another item on that budget, i.e. the BIK money. There was actually a fence around it, let me put it as: reserved to do something for business. What we are saying now, apart from any proposals you may make, which the PvdA may make, which each of the nineteen political groups may make here in the Chamber, is that we are prepared to open the fence around that BIK and see if we can take a few steps together on issues, for example on the housing market or the landlord levy, in order to do something before 2022 and not let that go to waste. That does not at all relieve you of the possibility, on the contrary, of making many more proposals. I'm gonna take a look at that, too. Of course I'm gonna watch that! You should not pretend that with the hand-off I make, I suggest that the debate should only be about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u223	It's not your money. It's not the VVD's money. It's the money of all of us. It's the taxpayers' money. I call you on that. What I really appreciate about you is that I see that you are thinking here, that you are reaching out and that you are trying to get closer together. I appreciate that. That's what we're gonna do for the next two days. But what I am addressing you to is that you say that there is EUR 1 billion and we are opening that gate. That's arrogance of power. "We're gonna open the gate?" We decide how that money is spent here. I call you on that. It is not up to the VVD to decide what we may or may not talk about from that budget; whether or not you open the gate. That fence was wide open, because every group here has to make its own judgement. That is the whole discussion about the new governance culture, which cannot be used by one party to determine what we are or are not going to encrypt to the budget. And that must be the profit of these days, because you started with the fact that confidence in politics has to come back. Absolutely. This must be done by trying to reach out to each other by taking substantive steps. But also because people in the Netherlands see that this House dares to make a fist, dares to stand up and also dares to say to a cabinet: this is what the Netherlands needs and this is what we are going to do. As complicated as it may be, we are taking those decisions these two days.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u224	I cannot repeat it often enough: the debate here is about the whole budget. There's not one party here about one amount at all. All I'm saying is that I could have stood here and defended that 800 million or that 900 million of the BIK completely and said I don't want to do anything with it. What I want to point out is that I reach out to everyone, to see if we can do something with it together: in the housing market, for defence, for education, for purchasing power, for care, I can mention a hundred subjects. Make up the topics we all think are important! That's the only hand-off I'm doing, that's the attempt to work together here. The question I am asking you back is: are you prepared to do so? It's not a small amount, is it? That amount we might be able to do something with? Are you willing to see if we can find something that we can agree with with a wide range of parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u225	No, Mr. Clover, we agreed to interrupt in threes. I'll go first to Mrs Ploumen and then to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u226	It does not seem to me to be a favour that the VVD as the largest party now makes a very small part of the budget 'available'. That is not the point of the debate. The debate is about the fact that, I believe, there were up to 15,000 people demonstrating in Amsterdam because there is simply no affordable house to be found. Those people are not waiting for us to do something here or look; these people want an affordable house. And it can be done if we abolish that landlord's tax, which, by the way, amounts to 2.3 billion by 2025. Because Mr Segers is right: we are not going to get there with a little cheese shaving. If we abolish this landlord's tax here, that means that many more affordable houses can be built and those houses can be preserved. This is a solution which, incidentally, should have been used in recent years. Anyway, new rounds, new odds. Is Mrs Hermans prepared to abolish the landlord's tax by a majority in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u227	I think I have already said in a number of interruptions that the VVD is prepared to look at the landlord levy, that it is prepared to see if we can take a step in 2022 to get the pressure off the boiler.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u228	"Take a step" is not what I'm asking. Unless that step is abolishing the landlord's tax. But I do not hear Mrs Hermans say that. Steps aren't gonna get us there. Steps are not going to solve the housing crisis. Now is the time to take the necessary steps, and one of them is abolishing the landlord's tax. Is Mrs Hermans prepared to support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u229	This is really going a step too far for the VVD Group. When you look at the budget, you have to make choices. Politics is always choosing in scarcity. And yes, the housing market is a very big problem. Mrs Ploumen cited the protest in Amsterdam. I've seen that. I've been there. I have also heard from my colleague Daniel Koerhuis about this. So I see, also around me, in my own environment, what problems there are. And that we need to do something about that, I fully agree with you. I also said that we are prepared to take a step. Is that enough? No, that's probably not enough. But for me at the end of these two days, the question is: do we do nothing at all or take a step? I'd be happy to take that step with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u230	Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u231	Economic growth is amazingly good. That is the fruit of the work of all Dutch. The same Dutch people do not benefit from economic growth and cannot find a home. Mrs Hermans says: either we take a small step or we do nothing. That's not the choice. The choice ahead is: are we willing to make sure that we move in a different direction with the Netherlands? Are we prepared to ensure that an affordable home is available for everyone in this prosperous country? I hear Mrs Hermans saying that she wants to take a step. From this I have to conclude that the VVD is not willing to help the Netherlands. The VVD is not prepared to solve the housing crisis. There's another choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u232	The fact that the VVD is not willing to take the full 100% steps in the direction that Mrs Ploumen wants does not mean that the VVD is not prepared to take steps. We also have our wishes. Everyone in this room has their wishes. All I'm trying to do is put these desires together a little bit and see if we can get something together on a few big themes. That is my intention, that is the motivation with which I stand here today and tomorrow, and by the way, I am working here every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u233	Mrs Marijnissen of the SP and then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u234	Mrs Hermans is trying to take stock of her wishes and bring them together, but I would like to remind her that she is really here today as a Member of Parliament, and not as a member, representative or spokesman of a cabinet. The Chamber is debating the whole budget today. I'm glad. It threatened to be a bit about something being done with the VIK. Everyone knows that that's what was called and talked about, including behind the scenes. We all saw that coming for miles, then we're going to do something about the landlord's tax and that's it. No, for abolishing the landlord's tax as a whole, that's just a tax on social housing, I say for people who are less at home there in the Chamber is just a political majority. So we will, as soon as we can, make that proposal here. I think that with Mrs Hermans there is not much point in discussing this any longer, which is just that political majority here. So I would simply like to appeal to the two Members of Parliament. It's up to us today to abolish that landlord's tax. That can be done, and that is a first step. Because abolishing this landlord's tax is not nearly enough to tackle even the beginning of the housing crisis. Tackling the start of the housing crisis is my question to Mrs Hermans: that this so-called housing market is not a market, that our housing is not a market and that, if it were a market, it should be regulated, because living is a right in the Netherlands. Does Mrs Hermans agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u235	The problems in the housing market are great. I've just shared a VVD insight with you on climate change. But in our election programme we also recognise the need for a strong government in the housing market in the coming years. A strong government means a government that interferes with where you're going to build and how much you're going to build there, and it also controls performance agreements you make with municipalities and corporations. So I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that much more needs to be done and that we have a task to do here too. I would like to add one more thing. I'm standing here as a Member of Parliament. I stand here as acting group chairman of the VVD. I really see it as my job to see what we can agree on here, in this Parliament, and to gather a majority for that. I think that is also the core of our work, gathering a majority to get things done by the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u236	That is very good, because the political majority to abolish the landlord tax has been here since the elections. But the debate with Mrs Hermans was always about: yes, we want to remove some of them and put some sort of plaster on them, but that is not enough. That's the point I wanted to make here. Then about the market. Living is a right in the Netherlands, I just said that. But what we see now is that a home is mainly to become rich from instead of to live in. If you own houses, you can make more money from that than if you have a job. Does Mrs Hermans recognise that this is actually in itself disturbed, that the system is therefore failing, that we should do the same and that we can do this very concretely by, for example, maximising the rents? By restricting the power of investors, for example? For example, because of the transfer tax............................................................................................................................................ To make sure that if you own more houses, you also just pay taxes on the income you get from your tenants? All that kind of proposal. Does Mrs Hermans agree that if we really want to do something about the housing crisis as a Chamber today, then the outgoing cabinet will leave it to the Chamber, sorry, the forming parties in the last six months too? Does Mrs Hermans agree that we should do all that from then on because the Netherlands simply cannot wait for it to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u237	Mr. Chairman. Addressing the problems in the housing market requires a lot more than just looking at that landlord tax. I agree with Mrs Marijnissen. And some of the proposals she mentions are similar in our electoral programme, but we do not agree on everything. Then you come back to the point: where can we find each other? Where can we find each other in these two days to ask the outgoing cabinet to work on this, even though they are outgoing, because we all say that this crisis on the housing market cannot wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u238	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u239	That is exactly why I am standing here, Mrs Hermans. I'm here to discuss that with you as a member of the House of Representatives. I am glad that you also say that more is needed than abolishing the landlord's tax. Our proposal is still simply to abolish it, but that is indeed not the beginning of tackling the housing crisis; that is much more fundamental. But let me highlight a few things, for example, the maximation of the rents. In the election campaign, there was also a majority for this in the Lower House. Does Mrs Hermans think that if we decide to do that here today, for example, the maximisation of social housing not for one year, which we have recently decided here, but for four years, that this should at least be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u240	In all these measures, I would very much like to know how they contribute to solving the problems we are seeing in the housing market. The VVD Group is willing to look at any means that contribute to people's faster access to a house, whether that's a rental house or a merchant house. The goal is for us: for people a nice and affordable house in the neighborhood where you want to live.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u241	There are some interruptions. The interruption goes in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u242	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u243	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u244	That really wasn't an answer to my question. I would like to make a very specific proposal and ask Mrs Hermans to support it. And then there comes a very vague answer that at least is not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u245	I'm looking at Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u246	I would very much like to repeat it without costing me any further interruption. It was a very concrete proposal on maximising the rents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u247	Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u248	Of course you help people get an affordable house.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u249	Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u250	I would like to be careful not to bring these very complex issues down to one measure. We really need to look at the coherence of all these measures and what their impact is on the housing market and how we solve it. If your proposal makes a significant contribution to achieving that objective, we are prepared to look into it. But I do want to be able to weigh it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u251	There's a lot of interruptions. I'm gonna repeat everyone. Mr Jetten, Mr Wilders, Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Azarkan, Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Den Haan and finally Mr Klaver. I would like to agree with you that after Mr Klaver Mrs Hermans continues with her story, because she had just begun. Then we'll see if there are any other interruptions. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Jetten van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u252	Let me start with a compliment. These are the first political considerations for Mrs Hermans and she has been here for hours answering all kinds of interruptions, and she is doing so in a very pleasant tone as far as I am concerned. I am pleased that you are with this APB on behalf of the VVD Group. Mr President, I have just been listening for a long time to all the small debates on the landlord levy. Last summer I had the pleasure of working on this document with Mrs Hermans, Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag. One of the things we agreed on last summer was that we have too often ended up in difficult compromises in recent years. We tried to keep everyone in the Chamber more or less satisfied by sticking patches. The effect of this is that many people in society remained dissatisfied because we did not dare to make the big movement. I see now a VVD group chairman who listens very carefully to all the ideas about the housing market, but she just indicated to Mrs Marijnissen that she wanted to weigh it in an integrated package. I understand that very well, because converting the landlord's tax into an investment fund is the only way we can make it. You can't make it through just renting. We will have to make a wide package for the housing market. We could turn each other crazy to fix all that here today, but that's not gonna work. Fortunately, the budget discussions last a few weeks, so my question to Mrs Hermans is: is she prepared to look at whether we can land in a broad and comprehensive housing package in the coming weeks if we do not come out with the Chamber today or tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u253	It would be weird if I said no now, because I think this is the core of our work. Today and tomorrow we are doing the General Political Reviews, where we have rightly spent a lot of time on the housing market today. It is one of the major issues we face. The internal affairs budget procedure is also going to be introduced, where living is an important part of it. So, of course, my group is willing, my spokesman is willing and I am prepared to think about it with anyone who wants to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u254	Thank you for that reply from Mrs Hermans. I really like the fact that the VVD first did a hand-out by taking the initiative to see with parties whether the BIK money can be used for sensible things, so 2022 is not a lost year. She also now says: I am willing to talk about it with each other in the next few weeks to do it right at once. But besides the housing market, there are also other pressing issues. It is not for nothing that the Demissionary Cabinet is paying out billions more for the climate. But apart from the housing crisis and the climate crisis, of course, there is also the opportunity crisis. At the beginning of the debate, we discussed it for a while. 15-year-olds reading and counting worse than they did a decade ago. Is Mrs Hermans also prepared to consider with us over the next few weeks how to take the first steps in the opportunity crisis? I am thinking in particular of the pay gap between primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u255	I believe that after today and on the way to all the budgetary discussions that are to take place, we can work together and discuss and I think that there will be consultations between different groups. Actually, I hope so. In any case, by 2022, we can do the things that are needed to solve the biggest problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u256	I very much agree with that. We may be able to do that through the formation route, but it'll take a long time. That also offers room for us as a room. Finally, there is the very specific question of the pay gap between continuing education and primary education. It is the other way around: teachers in primary education earn significantly less than teachers in secondary education. This contributes to the shortage of teachers. This contributes to the fact that too few people choose the wonderful profession of teacher. We know we can seduce more people to stand in front of the class if we can close that pay gap. This will enable us to achieve this equality of opportunity for more children in the Netherlands. Our main document also states that focusing on improving teachers' salaries is a very important commitment of D66 and the VVD. Is Mrs Hermans prepared to see with me in the near future if we can resolve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u257	That is what the document says, just as there are a lot of other points in that document that may have financial consequences. That touches on what I have tried to say in various interruptions. Eventually, of course, you make a total weighing of all the budgets that are ahead. Do you see the wishes and priorities of each of the parties, and therefore of my group, sufficiently reflected in that? I am prepared to look at all these different budgets with parties where the biggest problems and the biggest stones of offence lie. But I am not just saying that I am going to say yes to everything, because we ourselves also have wishes and ideas. And in the end, it's a balance where we make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u258	Mr. Wilders, PVV, and then Mrs. Ouwehand, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u259	Mrs Hermans has been working for an hour. I think we can draw the conclusion of the next two days, because it is not going very well so far. Right? Mr Jetten of D66 may agree with you, but when I hear the rest of the opposition, it does not seem that what you are doing, namely seeking the support of Mrs Marijnissen or Mr Klaver, is going to be a great success today and tomorrow. I don't see them all cheering yet. And then there is the proposal from Mr Jetten, who says: you know what, if it does not work today and tomorrow, we will do it over the next few months and then we will do it with the budgets. After an hour we already know that the plan to get out today or tomorrow with the SP, GroenLinks, the Labour Party and I know who, will not succeed. Again, I can't look into the future, but it doesn't look very promising. Mr Jetten immediately gives a political helping hand and says: you know what, then we will do so in the coming months. "Is Mrs Hermans prepared to do it in the coming months if today and tomorrow fail?" Yes, then the Netherlands will wait for months to see if something happens again. Couldn't it be that we should stop? The majority of Dutch people said at a poll of EenVandaag or Hart van Nederland: it is time for new elections. Stop it. If we are going to follow the D66 proposal and continue for months, we will not have a cabinet in December. Do you not think that we should simply give the voter the floor and say: enough is enough, we do not have months to wait for these budgetary discussions. Shouldn't there be elections now, with the voters talking, where they will see who gets the mandate?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u260	No, I do not agree with Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u261	Could you also indicate why not? Is that perhaps too much to ask? Do you think it's going so well? Do you think that a cabinet that quit nine months ago and that six months after Rutte's lie and the debate on 1 April still has no prospect of a coalition unless you know more than I do, with which the Netherlands can tackle the major problems of immigration, elderly people and purchasing power, housing and care, which everyone has already mentioned? Don't you think we can't wait for you, Mrs Hermans, with your VVD, your Rutte and the rest to come out together for the next few months? 'Cause if you don't come out, you can't. Then we'll be months away without anything happening. Of course, everything is political here, but I am also making a substantive proposal. The conclusion is already that if these two days fail, we will do so in the next few months in the budgetary debates. The Netherlands cannot wait for that! Then you'll have to sign up for election now. That's what the Netherlands wants. You shouldn't lock Rutte in that turret. You cling to Rutte's power. You want to hold on to that so badly that you've been crashing the Netherlands into misery for months. The Netherlands deserves better. Elections, a new mandate and troubleshooting, what's wrong with that? Explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u262	I do not agree with the new elections, as I said to Mr Wilders. I agree with the fact that the formation has been taking so long. I hate that. I find that, as Mr Jetten said yesterday, extremely frustrating. Elections are a step further. I do not think that is going to increase the confidence that people unfortunately do not have in politics at the moment. I am the second speaker today. There are 17 political groups left after me. There are still a lot of stories, comments and reflections to be made by colleagues. I'll see if we can work together on a few topics. I repeat, this will not be enough for everyone. It will not be a complete fulfillment of the wishes or ideas we have. However, I do not accept that we are losing 2022 because there is no cabinet yet. Yeah, that cabinet was supposed to be there. Of course! But it is not there; that is a given. We have work to do today, tomorrow and in the coming weeks when the budgets are being dealt with, to see where we can do what is so important before 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u263	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u264	That's just not gonna work. Clover and Ploumen are not going to help you here if they are not allowed to negotiate at the table. In my view, Mr Klaver and Mrs Ploumen have even said this literally. They said if you want to negotiate with us, invite us to the negotiating table. You kicked them off the negotiating table. Thank God, by the way, but that's not my point right now! You kicked them off the negotiating table, so they're not gonna help you. I am not speaking on behalf of the SP, but the SP does not think that the move to abolish the landlord's tax at all is enough. You're not even willing to do a little bit. I predict you won't be able to do this these days. We're sitting here having a fake debate. You are right that there are still a lot of speakers behind you, but the people who have interrupted you do not suffer from enthusiasm. So that's probably not gonna work. You're going to do that in the next few months. Then maybe it won't work. Mrs Hermans, I say through the President, the Netherlands cannot keep the problems we have waiting for months. So I'm telling you, stop it. It's not gonna work. Write out elections or help me ask the cabinet to write out elections. Then we'll be out of trouble much sooner than by muddling with people who don't really want to and who you sent away, just to keep that man in the turret.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u265	The difference between Mr Wilders and me is that I am positive and will do everything I can to make it work in the next two days. I'm gonna keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u266	There is an interruption by Mrs Ouwehand and then by Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u267	I'm getting a strong feeling that we've ended up in the VVD's imaging show. I don't like these games. I hear it's good for your polls. Those who do like to perform in gaming programs, should do so most of all. But if you find me there on television one day, I can say that it is not voluntary. What is certainly not voluntary is that we are here to participate in what we can all see through. The VVD suffers from the imagery, because Dutch people think: that couple in The Hague can't even work together. That is why this time, for the first time in years, we can clearly say something about the budget. It's always been different. I don't think that's gonna win back the trust. In any case, you will not win back the Party's trust for the Animals. If I hear Mrs Hermans say again once again that she wants to be proud of this Parliament, then I wonder why the VVD Group does not choose to admit honestly about the housing crisis that a lot of things have been done wrong and that this was because of the VVD. The VVD has opted for a rental charge. The VVD has chosen to turn living into a market. It's a paradise for investors, but people have to sleep under the bridge by now. The VVD has also chosen to give livestock farming in the Netherlands all the space, against all warnings, so that the mantra that we always have to hear from the VVD can't even "build, build, build." You can't build if the nitrogen crisis isn't solved. If the VVD Group says: "We need to earn citizens' trust back," then the first step is to honestly admit what you've done wrong, instead of presenting the housing crisis as a problem that just fell out of the sky, and now, today, we all need to think about what good ideas would be? A whole history has preceded that and the VVD played a very important role in that. Doesn't it start with that recognition?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u268	Speaking of imagery, there are really a lot of images here that I do not recognize at all, without prejudice to the problems in the housing market that exist. You know, Mrs Ouwehand, through you, Mr President, what I find complicated about the debate we have had here over the past period and now again, is that when we ask each other questions or are discussing each other, we often question each other's intentions directly. Like I have the intention of doing a gaming program here. Not at all! You have heard in the introduction to my speech that the reason I am in politics is to solve problems that people encounter in everyday life. That you and I have other ideas about what those solutions are, that's fine. We can have a debate on that. But questioning each other's intentions is really not going to contribute to a better political debate, let alone to the actual resolution of those problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u269	Fine. Then convince me! Then convince me that this isn't what we've known for years from the VVD: don't want to solve problems of your own, don't want to acknowledge by yourself that you've just made very wrong policy choices, which means that there's now a Mount Everest of problems in the Netherlands, whose housing crisis isn't the smallest.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u270	I also come at the end of my speech with a reflection on something of my own, but I think you cannot deny the VVD Group any reflection of the VVD as a party to our actions and our thinking in recent years. This has started with a piece by my colleague, my former colleague, Mr Klaas Dijkhoff, and also in our election programme. I really think the VVD makes different choices than you've been used to in the past few years. I think that we also recognise in that programme that there are problems. And yes, the VVD has been the largest party for ten years and is part of the cabinet for ten years, so yes: we also have responsibility for things that have not gone well. But there are also a lot of things going incredibly well in this country and I am very happy about that. I am proud of that, but we must keep it that way, and we must cherish it. At the same time, we must work on the new problems and the new challenges that are coming to us. As far as I am concerned, this must be based on the insights and thoughts that we have developed in recent years. I am open to this and I am listening to everyone else's idea. If we can find each other, we have a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u271	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u272	I am not convinced, just because Mrs Hermans is talking about 'new problems coming towards us'. What the hell were you thinking? New problems? The VVD deliberately and knowingly ignored all warnings about this forthcoming nitrogen crisis! We knew the whole country would come to a standstill. And what do we see of the VVD, of a Member of this Parliament who Mrs Hermans wants to be so proud of? One message. Three words: build, build, build. Like it wasn't the VVD itself that made that building impossible. As if it wasn't the VVD itself that came up with that crooked plan of that landlord tax. As if it wasn't the VVD itself that told Minister Blok: "The housing market is finished; all investors are welcome." It's become fantastic for them! If you don't communicate that too, I'm very sorry; I don't want to question anyone's intentions, but then it remains that the VVD is not a political party that sincerely wants to make the right choices for the people in this country, but only a marketing machine for its own electoral gain?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u273	Mrs Ouwehand contradicts me, because on the one hand you say to me: I do not question your intentions, and the following sentence is: but the VVD is not sincere. I'm touched by that! The VVD wants the very best. In recent years, the VVD has considered the way it has looked at, for example, the housing market and the economy. We started thinking about that. We've come back on a number of things, on approaches or resources. How do I put it? Moving insight, maybe that's it. I think we're all obliged to keep thinking and keep our thoughts sharp. But pretending we're not genuinely engaged in the good things... that you think differently about certain topics and certain approaches is totally okay. That is also good, and we need to debate it. But you are constantly questioning what I am saying here and what I am advocating here, and that is what my colleagues in the group and my party colleagues in the cabinet are saying. I find that incredibly painful and unworthy of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u274	Thank you. There are still interruptions by Mr Azarkan van DENK, Mr Omtzigt and then by Mrs Den Haan. After that, the agreement is that Mrs Hermans will finish her story. And then there are a few more interruptions, I suppose. First of all, Mr Azarkan van DENK has the floor. No, Mrs. Ouwehand, interruptions in threes also apply to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u275	I am glad that, as a result of Mr Ouwehand's interruption, we have gone a little away from that rustling and settling. Because it made me feel uncomfortable. I almost wanted to go along with that, but then I thought, if there's 1 billion to divide and everyone thinks he's getting a piece, we'll be kept sweet, but what's the bigger picture? What about trust, legitimacy? Mrs Hermans said something I liked. It was some kind of exorcism. She's got a lot of passion, and I like that, too. It's about something. It's touching her, too. And then she said, in recent years, we've started to look at a number of themes differently. I'm so curious what these themes are and what the difference is. What did you fundamentally look at differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u276	I think I said something about the climate. I reflected that we have not been at the forefront of that theme. And I said that from now on, that's gonna be really different. But I also mentioned the economy. I think that for a long time we have actually acted on the assumption that we do not interfere with what is happening in business, because what is happening there is up to the companies themselves. However, you may also remember the statement made a few years ago. Then we said: we think that if a company is doing well, and it makes profits and makes money, then that money should end up with the people who work at that company and who make that profit. So you speak out about something that happens in business. That's one of the points. I'll mention something else. We also see that there are companies in the economy that make a lot of money here, but do not pay a fair contribution here. If Mr Azarkan reads the VVD programme, these are the points where he sees fundamentally different choices from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u277	There's another part of that too. That's about our kids. In recent years, I have spoken to many young people, from the National Student Union, from the Interurban Consultation and from other organisations. These young people are simply incredibly hard hit by the introduction of that debt system. Young people sometimes start on the labour market with €30,000 or €40,000 debt. If they can find a place, it's priceless because that debt also counts. Has Mrs Hermans and has the VVD also received a fundamentally different view of that debt system?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u278	I think Mr Azarkan is referring to the study advance. That is one of the subjects that we have also discussed. Of course, we have talked about this, because all these subjects come across when you write an election programme. In this respect, we have considered the possibility of maintaining the study advance. But we are doing so on the condition that the money that the government receives from it actually goes to improving the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u279	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u280	That was the deal. The agreement was that that money, 800 million, would be put back into education and would return for better quality. Part of it just didn't work out. But apart from that, the point I want to make is whether the VVD is also willing to look more broadly at all groups of people in society who are not traditionally among its supporters. Because when I hear her saying that she really wants to look at a number of themes differently, there is also that groups of people are not now taking part in that study, are excluded and say that they find the pressure too high, that they are being hunted down and that they do not want to start with €30,000 debt. Shouldn't we just get rid of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u281	Mr Azarkan said something interesting at the beginning of his interruption: we see that that money does not end up where it should end up, namely in the quality of education. I share that with you: where that does not happen, it is also a point for my group that we constantly ask questions about. This will probably be one of our subjects in the education budget, because that is precisely what it is intended for: to ensure that education is the very best education and to ensure that the young people who are going to study with us at HBO and universities receive the very best education and meet the labour market with a good degree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u282	I am going to go into this further, because Mrs Hermans said that we are not doing anything on the housing market or taking a step. One point: it is not about the housing market, it is about housing. The Constitution, which I would have preferred to hang on the wall rather than some soil, mud or clay, because mud gives us nothing but inspiration to do things with mud. In Article 22, it is quite clear: "Promoting sufficient housing is the concern of the government." It's a duty. Missionary or missionary does not matter: it is a constitutional duty for the government to ensure that there is sufficient housing. There isn't one. Young people cannot find a home and are on a waiting list for ten years. The holiday parks are full of people who are divorced and really can't go anywhere. We see students who stay in a dorm while they already work, sometimes six, seven or eight years longer, because they can't find anything else. We see new students who, of course, thanks to the lack of the basic grant, are nowhere to find an affordable home. We see young families who delay having children because they have a home where they can't set up a nursery. This country has crashed like hell. Then it is painful to see that neither the government nor the VVD has an integral plan for housing. My question to the VVD Group is therefore: what is the reason why there is no comprehensive plan for housing, when we all see that the housing crisis is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u283	I have just had an interrupting debate with Mr Jetten. I have also acknowledged and said that it is so important that we look at this housing market in its entirety, rent and buy, on all those parts that have passed even today, so that we do not take one out of it, but look at everything, and that we are very willing to work with them in the coming weeks on the way to BZK's budgetary treatment. That's where I, the VVD, want to focus the energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u284	In December 1960 the cabinet fell. The ARP group then threw down its own ARP ministers......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Why did she do that? Because the government wanted to build 80,000 homes. The ARP group wanted 85,000, including over 60,000 premium homes. In the past, premium housing was affordable. You got a little grant and you could buy a place on one salary. Now imagine that: on one modal salary you can't buy a house anywhere in the Netherlands. You could do that in large parts of the Netherlands and those figures were fixed. Is the VVD group with me willing to pin the government, whatever it is, on the same number of homes as then: 85,000 new homes, so not houses that are converted? I mean 85,000 new homes next year and the following year, and working towards them with a package, rather than just proposing measures without knowing exactly where we are coming from.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u285	What I and the VVD want to commit to is making a plan that solves the problem. I find numbers and percentages complicated. So I'm committing myself to a plan. I commit to doing everything I can to achieve a goal. In addition, we will undoubtedly mention numbers. But let's start by putting together a package that we think is going to solve the problem and this is going to make a house, rent or buy available for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u286	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u287	There is no other option than to name numbers. In the 1960s we had an annual plan for housing, in which we committed ourselves to a number of houses that were built, because there was a housing shortage. Now we take measures every year. One time it's the jubilee. Last year it was the transfer tax that went to zero for starters. Right away, prices went up. The year before it was a few times 100 million for the sustainability of social housing. But those were measures. Does the VVD not agree with me that we should first have a goal, namely to solve the housing crisis in four or five years? 'Cause in a year it's not gonna work out, we're agreed on that. Then we add the numbers and then the measures. Or are we going to take action again and if they haven't had the effect in three years, do this? We can simply say to the government: "It is up to you to build so many houses. So many of those properties are affordable. Those properties aren't sold to speculators. They are simply sold to starters and young families, and perhaps also to elderly people who would like to buy a new apartment."?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u288	I particularly agree with the order indicated by Mr Omtzigt. I agree that it will be an end in itself if we now take action without clearly focusing on where we want to go. I don't think that's the intention. So we formulate the goal: what do we want to solve? That numbers are part of that, I can imagine, or I get that, because you could calculate that. We have to take this into account, too, and I cannot overlook it if Mr Omtzigt mentions a number of things that unfortunately we are limited in the capacity we can build in a year by the number of people working in construction, but also by the number of machines and materials available. So, after we have set a goal, I would like to take all these things together into consideration, if we are going to formulate numbers and then look at them: what are the measures to achieve that goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u289	Mrs Hermans spoke at the beginning of her speech about her dreams and ambitions. We share a great deal of those dreams and ambitions. We have also worked well together on this, for example in the area of housing for the elderly and the relief of carers. I am disappointed, however, that there is very little in all the documents about the elderly. My colleagues quite rightly spoke this morning about the housing market. There's been a huge crisis. But it didn't come from one day to the next. It's been over for years. This also applies to the shortage of labour in some sectors, the affordability of care and the sustainability of our old age services. You can see that demographic developments are largely at the root of this. Many reports from the Theme Committee on Older People's Policy have already been published on this issue in 2005. But recently, for example, there were the Bos report, the Living and Care Task Force and the CBS and NIDI report on the population in 2050. I'm very glad you want to do hand-outs. I also have a wish list. I'd like to talk to you about that. But I would also like to look at whether we can try to avoid further problems of this kind. Because if we had intervened earlier over the years, then perhaps we would not have reached this point of all those crises. I would like to ask Mrs Hermans whether she agrees with me that we should work to avoid these problems in the future. Would you like to work with me to develop a vision of generation policy, with demographics as a guide?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u290	The answer to that last question is yes. The report to which Mrs Den Haan refers, I think, has appeared following a motion by Klaas Dijkhoff and Pieter Heerma at the 2018 APB, I say for a moment out of my mind. It was about a report on demographic developments in the Netherlands. The request to the cabinet was also to develop policy options. I do not think that the latter has happened, but that report is there, and this also partly puts the finger on the sore spot that Mrs Den Haan describes. We're not ready for that. We do not have the overall picture to guide that towards the future. To the steps we can take together for that, I am happy to be willing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u291	Thank you. Then I suggest you continue your argument. After that, there are still a number of interruptions. Thank you for understanding that Mrs Hermans may finish her story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u292	Mr. Chairman. After this series of interruptions, I wanted to say that in politics too, The Hague, we are not just facing each other. Corona is a good example here too. We had strong debates on the content. We took difficult measures, but often with great consensus, to protect vulnerable people and to support entrepreneurs and care. Fortunately, we arrange a lot of things here that are good for the Netherlands. We just do, because that's our job. But the risk of focusing on the hassle is that it snows under, and I regret that. Two weeks ago, we had a debate here in the Chamber on the difficult formation. More or less simultaneously, in another place in this building, in another room I don't know where to point, because I haven't quite mastered the building yet. Colleagues of us, our fellow spokesmen Education, arranged something very important. Because of their cooperation, the chances of children entering high school that suits them are much greater, because we are going to take school advice and finals even more seriously. That's great news for kids who stand for that important step in their lives, the step to seventh grade. We got even more together, for the safety of journalists, by, for example, arranging that their addresses are no longer public and that there will be money for their security. That's how it works in a lot of other moments. Let's keep an eye on that, too. Let's keep working together and see what's important, because that's our strength. Mr. Chairman. "Life is beautiful and sunny" is not for nothing my motto, sometimes to force it, but mostly because it is. I'm an optimistic man. I also see that the Netherlands is facing major issues in the coming years. We've already discussed a number of them. So we have a lot of work to do together and we have a lot of problems to solve. I do so in my dream and ambition to contribute that all those people who contribute in this country can count on a pleasant and safe life. I can also see that's under pressure. Because for a long time, when you worked hard, you actually got something in return automatically. If you didn't go crazy and save some, you could buy a house at some point. If someone else committed a crime, chances were he was arrested and the neighborhood was safe again. Those things aren't that obvious anymore. That unspoken promise needs maintenance. That's what families with two working parents notice who still barely have anything left at the end of the month, or suggesting that their children's wish is for them, because a house with an extra room just isn't in it. Mr Omtzigt just said the same thing. That's what people who look at the news and can't imagine drug criminals getting shot in the middle of a residential neighborhood in broad daylight, and people who, for example, want nothing more than the world around us, keep their kids clean and liveable, but also wonder: "How am I supposed to do that? Clean energy, an expensive electric car, perhaps a heat pump; how do we do that on top of all the bills that are already there?" Especially after this year there are also the questions about care. How do we stay healthy? Is this concern still there when our parents or later we need that care? And can we keep paying them? Mr. Chairman. They're legitimate questions and concerns. And indeed, the issues of climate, care, security and the housing market are large and complex. Yet, and for that I would like to quote the title of the book of Klaas Dijkhoff and Tim Versnel: everything will be fine. I really believe that. It won't be easy. It takes courage and courage from everyone, including us. Because, yes, the issues that lie ahead require a firm intervention from a strong government. I'll start with the safety of our country. In recent years, we have been horribly shaken by the horrible murders of Derk Wiersum and Peter R. de Vries. They have shown that crime in the Netherlands is no longer a matter for small boys. It is good that the cabinet is investing extra in tackling this major, organised crime. For my group, this is the beginning. We're a long way from here. Because 40,000 lines of coke per day in cities like Rotterdam and Amsterdam is not normal, especially considering the hard trade behind this. There are murderers and criminals who go home with the proceeds of this and sow death and destruction in society. More is needed to protect our free lives and dismantle this attack on them. We know today's little criminals are tomorrow's drug lords. So we need to intervene sooner, especially with the novice criminals. Their little brothers find it all mighty interesting: today they bring a package away, tomorrow they close a big drug deal. We need to pay more attention to that. For example, we must ensure that the big brother does not appoint his little brother as his successor from prison. We need to see what we can do in terms of roommates who are aware of criminal activities that take place from their homes. If a mayor in one municipality knows there's a shady case in a building, he should be able to warn his fellow mayor if the case moves. If people, journalists or protectors of the rule of law are threatened, then the government must be able to secure these people properly. If the Tax Office sees that someone has unexplained money or if Customs intercepts a party with more than bananas, then all organizations have to call the alarm bells to deal with these guys. We must therefore ensure that customs, field, police and prosecutors do not run into obstructive privacy rules, but can exchange the necessary information. Finally, Mr President. If it feels like something isn't right, it often doesn't. So if someone with a thick criminal record drives an even thicker car and has a watch on his wrist that a normal family has to work for a year, chances are something's going on. The VVD thinks it makes sense for you to have criminals prove where they got that watch and that car. Mr President, my question to the cabinet. The cabinet is investing in the fight against organised crime, but if I list this and read the reports from the past period, I wonder if we are really doing enough to protect ourselves sufficiently from the acute threat that exists. And that really can't wait. Organised crime, terrorism and radicals threaten our freedom, our rule of law and our Western values. The fact that living in freedom as a woman, gay or unbeliever is no longer self-evident is not normal and unacceptable. Radicalisation or terrorism must never be part of our society. Against weekend schools that put poisonous ideas in our children's heads, we have to do something, and fast. We need to give our services room to follow people who spout radical thought. My question is: what can the services and the cabinet do in the near future to tackle this radicalisation directly at its root, before these dangerous forms take place? Finally, on safety. The situation in Afghanistan has made it clear that security relations are shifting and that America is no longer taking the lead automatically. This means that we in Europe will have to solve our own problems more and more. The growing unrest in the world makes it necessary to invest in defence. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u293	I want Mrs Hermans to finish her story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u294	A good and safe life also requires a clean country in which it is good life, now and in the future. A lot has already been said about it, but I would like to say it myself once: that starts with a house. But houses are simply too few now. So more needs to be built. Those houses must be affordable, whether you buy them or rent them. For many people, that ideal is now too much of a dream. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet makes extra money available for building more homes and making agreements. It's a first step. We're not here yet. A clean country where life is good. A lot of people want to participate in a clean world for their children and grandchildren, but we can't just put that task down on families that are already struggling, like, "Well, we have a challenge, we have success with it, and we're going to make things more sustainable." That's not how it works. But this is what I want to say. The moth is happening. Honesty requires me to say, I have already said something about it, but I would like to repeat once again that my party has not been at the forefront of this issue in recent years. But I say to you now, loud and clear: the time of stalling is over. That is what the floods in Limburg have shown. And this Millions note is full of measures to make the Netherlands more sustainable. That's good. But almost everyone in this Chamber sees the scale of the problem and knows that we are not yet there with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u295	Are you at the end of your entire speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u296	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u297	No. I'd like to ask you to really finish your story. After that, there's a lot of interruptions. Mr. Heerma, you can sit down, because you're the eighth. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u298	Let us agree that we are taking the budgetary plans for this coming year as an example, to join forces and see how we can help people; to look together for sensible solutions, rather than patronising or simply banning them. This budget is a good example of this. There will be extra money for the isolation of houses, and the cabinet will help people and entrepreneurs to move to sustainable alternatives. So we show that "feasible and affordable" is not an empty cry, or an excuse to do nothing. It is our firm belief that it is the only way to get people involved in making the Netherlands more sustainable. The reports on the energy bill are worrying in this context - and I should like to express myself with caution. That is why I want to know very specifically what it will take to keep that energy bill affordable. And I mean above all: what options would we be able to address this in a targeted way? And my group also wants to know what the cabinet is further preparing for a new cabinet to help companies to become more sustainable rather than more sustainable. That is why we have a central question: how do we work together on a green business? Mr. Chairman. I have highlighted a few issues, but there is absolutely more, because the challenges ahead are great. My party argued earlier for a national recovery plan to eliminate the damage caused by corona and all the late maintenance that has been put on the long track by corona. It is then about the damage that entrepreneurs have caused by accounts that have remained in place. But it is also about the much-needed operations and other delays in the care that need to be caught up. It is about delays in construction and maintenance on roads, our public transport; the delays that children have experienced in education, and the delays that we see with the police. And although it seems careful that we leave corona behind, the need to look at what our country needs after corona is still great. A plan for all corners of our economy, not least agriculture, which prepares us for the challenges we face. What conditions can this cabinet have for this recovery, so that the new cabinet can get to work quickly? We must work together here in The Hague to deal with all these issues that are coming to us. For the VVD has neither wisdom nor seats on its own. And therefore a cry of heart from me. Let us be open to others, instead of being stuck in our own equals. Let's start listening, instead of sending directly. Be open to change, even in your own mind. And when I say this, I realize you're putting this on a tile easier than you're doing it. With me, there is still room for improvement. And I am going to give you the example that I think I was getting ahead of in one of my interruptions. During the last parliamentary term, I was spokesperson for Health. I have had many debates there, at the beginning with Mrs Marijnissen, but also with Mrs Ellemeet. And when I was addressed on the subject of market forces in care, I quickly closed the shutters, raised the arms over each other and shoulders, and answered, sometimes regardless of the question, that there is no market functioning in care at all, even when I would later ask a question about wrong incentives in care. So you could say that I closed the windows and doors of my sacred houses firmly. If I had been open, more open, to listen to the other's question and concern, I would have heard that behind that perhaps some easy frame of market operation and my predictable answer was to do the same to both of us: for good and loving care. And that, for example, we aim for the same thing: combating health cowboys. Even though we may both have a different route in mind to achieve that. So I have another example. I have already said a few things about the climate, but you will remember the VVD's statement: windmills run on subsidies. In general, as a VVD, we looked at climate policy as something that should only be cost-effective. That's not what we've been thinking. We must be prepared to help entrepreneurs and people at home financially in order to achieve the goals and create a clean and fine country to live in. Mr. Chairman. This openness can be expected from me, people can expect from me at home, as well as listening to each other and assuming the good intentions of the other. Whether you want to call that new governance culture, new leadership, stopping scoreboard politics or logical liberalism, I don't care. I think this is how politics is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u299	Thank you. There are some interruptions. I would like to ask everyone to do the interruptions briefly, because Mrs Hermans has been here for some time. We can do it. First, Mr Klaver, then Mr Dassen, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Baudet, Mrs Simons, Mrs Ploumen, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Heerma and Mrs Ouwehand. Then I really want it... and Mr. Jetten and Mr. Segers. After that I really want to close the VVD part of the program. Then everyone could have had enough interruptions, I think. So if it's short and concise, everyone comes to their senses. Thank you. And also Mr Omtzigt, I see in my corner of the eye. First of all, Mr Klaver. Short and concise, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u300	Mr President, I will at least divide my interruption into cubes, then it is better to follow. I appreciate Mrs Hermans' last words and also the way in which she looks back at how she has had her own debates. Let that be an invitation to all of us to look at ourselves in that way and really want to listen to the other, to see if you can get on with each other. I welcome the movement that the VVD is making when it comes to climate policy and the fact that we are also lagging behind with the framing that has been used there. And now you have to get on with it. António Guterres, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, has said that we are now in an enormous state of emergency. In 2030, we're already at 1.5°C warming. That means there's a state of emergency. Now my question to Mrs Hermans is whether the VVD, bearing in mind the words she has just said, is also prepared to say here in the Chamber that there is a state of emergency and whether it is prepared, as with many other matters, to put a club of experts to work, just like the OMT in the corona crisis, which is really going to advise us on what to do almost every month.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u301	I really do not want to leave any doubt or misunderstanding about the fact that the climate issue before us for the VVD Group is one of the biggest, most serious issues, problems that we have to deal with. I only have difficulty with the words that Mr Klaver puts on it, such as 'crisis' and 'emergency', because that... But that is because it does not suit me. It sketches for me a kind of doomsday scenario that it can't work out and that if we all put our hands on it here, we'll take the lead and get the whole country together, we won't be able to do it. So I totally agree with Mr Klaver that there is no time to waste and that we need to get to work, but putting such a negative picture on it does not, for me, do justice to the belief that I have that we can get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u302	Let me be honest: we don't have so much faith anymore. In 2007 was the first climate summit I experienced in Poznan. Back then, the VVD denied that there was a problem with climate change at all. We had all the time in peace, one step at a time, to tackle climate change. We really have less than nine years now, so, yeah, we're in an emergency. I hate to say it, but it's not gonna be okay by itself. You have to take very big steps. Those steps are missing for me. I see the words. I appreciate that. I also believe in the sincere intention, I say right away. But can Mrs Hermans tell me, for example, how much CO savings should lead to the plans that are now in the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u303	In my view, when I just outlined how we are looking at the government's climate measures, I made it very clear that this is the beginning, the first step. Well, not the first, we've taken some steps, but a next step. Maybe I should put it this way. I therefore also believe that more needs to be done. And we have to, because we have to achieve those goals. There's no discussion about that, so do I. I can also see that time is running out. My only point is that sticking such a word to the situation we are in does not call on me, does not motivate me and does not encourage me to go to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u304	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u305	Before I touch my total number of interruptions, I had a question that hasn't been answered yet: how much CO reduction is being achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u306	I must honestly say that I must remain guilty of the answer to this. So I'm gonna have to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u307	That's the whole problem. I see a lot of money being allocated to the climate, and that is positive. But I can give you a note: there is no quantification of how much that should yield. But it's not even gonna make sure that we get the 49% target out of the Climate Act, let alone that it's enough to get the 55% or 60% that is needed. Look, to really tackle climate change, we just have to do what's necessary. And in an emergency, it means that you can take bigger steps than you might want or be comfortable. Emergency breaks the law. That's why a word like this really matters. It is not for nothing that the Secretary-General of the United Nations says: please, Member States, take that step! 'Cause if you don't say that, we're gonna have all kinds of fun plans. And then we think: oh what fun, here a little subsidy for sustainability and here a little subsidy for electric cars. But it's not enough to stop climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u308	I appreciate Mrs Hermans' call for cooperation. We do want to move towards a clean country and a just society with opportunities for many, rather than the retired society with the Swiss sense of life for some. We were just talking about the housing market, in which many young people, partly because of the lending system and the debt they have built up, do not get the opportunity to get a home at all. But I also read in the Millions Note that the Netherlands will not meet the 2030 climate targets with its current policy and that there is still a great deal to be done to be climate neutral by 2050. Like high public debt or the cost of ageing, this is a burden that is passed on to future generations. I hear Mrs Hermans say that the time of stalling is over, everything is going to be fine. But I also note that over the last ten years, we have pushed out the choices for us and that future generations are the victims of this. Now we were talking about the 1 billion, but there is much more than 1 billion ready for us: 6 billion from the corona repair fund. Since the cabinet does not do so, I ask if Mrs Hermans is prepared to ensure that plans are made for this too, so that we can invest in climate, education and digitalisation, so that future generations can benefit from it. And this, of course, includes the implementation of reforms from the country-specific recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u309	I want to look at and contribute to all the plans we can make to take the necessary steps, but I think you should ask the cabinet the question you are asking me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u310	Not quite, because this outgoing cabinet all the time indicates that it wants to move the plans to a next cabinet. Well, we don't know how long that's gonna take. In the meantime, however, we as the House of Representatives can make these plans very well ourselves, submit them and ensure that the cabinet will carry them out. And then there is 6 billion that we can invest here in the Netherlands right now to make sure that we take even more steps with the climate, that we can make homes more sustainable and that we can invest in digitalisation and in the lags in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u311	Just as I am free to come up with proposals, you and everyone are free to come up with proposals. I repeat: I would ask this question to the cabinet. I would ask the cabinet whether it intends to send a proposal within the framework of the recovery fund that exists in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u312	Then I will indeed see if we can come up with proposals and if the VVD is willing to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u313	Leon de Winter wrote, I believe last week, in his column: the elephant in the room is migration. I think he's right about that. I also think we are right to say that the elephant in the House of Representatives is migration. I have listened to your whole story and let it work on me, and the words 'asylum and migration restrictions' and 'asylum crisis' are completely missing. We currently have an influx of 1,000 asylum seekers per week. That's really the level of the "Wir purchase tie-year 2015." Our entire asylum chain is hidden. We have 26,000 status holders looking for a house that no municipalities can be found for. So the whole thing's clogged up. I hear the VVD, of immigration king Mark Rutte of the last ten years, with an influx of 800,000 non-Western immigrants, say nothing about it. In other words, why is the VVD Demissionary on the asylum crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u314	There is a lot to say about migration. It is also a subject that is always topical, it is always there, because unfortunately there is always war in places in the world, violence going on that people are fleeing. It is also a complicated question of how we in the Netherlands, with the moral duty we feel, the human duty we have to take people in here, ensure that we do so in a way that also retains acceptance in society. This will also be the subject of repeated debate here over the next few years, and it will be a subject that you will hear a great deal about again over the next few years. I didn't say for nothing that there are a lot of challenges ahead of us. There's certainly one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u315	But it's completely missing from your story. That was also the case in the Throne speech and in the Millions Note. It was even true of the document you drew up for the creation of a new cabinet in the summer. The whole issue is missing in this too. At the end of last year, in November 2020, Bente Becker, a colleague of yours, wrote in the newspaper: VVD wants to close borders for migrants when a new wave of asylum seekers comes to the Netherlands. But there's that wave. There are 1,000 per week at the moment, more than that. Is that sufficient reason to introduce that measure by your colleague, Mr Becker, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u316	If Mr Eerdmans had read the document in general, written by VVD and D66, he would have seen that there was a passage in it about migration. The piece you showed there by my colleague Bente Becker, also here in the Chamber, is a position that the VVD still has. But if you had read our election programme, you would also have seen that this is a step in a package of measures that we would be able to take at the time of a crisis. Then comes the definition of crisis. You already define it as a crisis; not me, by the way. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u317	Finally, Mr Eerdmans, and then Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u318	I would have made a point there too, yes, because that is as far as you go. Bente Becker says exactly when that point will be reached, namely when the asylum influx becomes as high as we had. That's what she says here. So if that influx gets back to the way it was, say that 1,000 a week, what should happen for the VVD? I'm going to put it this way before you say: that bucket is flooding, we're not gonna make it anymore, we're gonna buy dass nicht, we can't take it anymore, because it's gonna be too much, absorption power isn't there in the Netherlands, our facilities are at stake, sorry, we have to act? I think that's Becker's line, but that's not the new VVD line. I would say that if you do regret the climate, do so with these words. Because you don't make a thing of it, you don't make a thing of it in the execution, of big words that make people think but in which they are then disappointed by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u319	Mr. Chairman. I am not going to do that at all, because I fully support what Mrs Becker wrote in that article, because I fully support what the VVD has written down in the election programme, but because I also realize that that is also realism, that is also part of politics that you have to deal with in Europe. We need to get to work on that. We need to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u320	Thank you. Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u321	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I listened to Mrs Hermans' speech. I hear she sees housing shortage as an important problem; it is. But what I don't understand is why she doesn't link it to immigration. For in the last decade and a half there has been an increase in population of 1.5 million; that is 94% from immigration. So how can you talk about solving the housing problem without saying anything about the immigration problem? Isn't that one-on-one the same? We have such a housing shortage because the VVD has opened the borders all these years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u322	This link would be totally unfair to the problems of the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u323	Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u324	Because there are many more factors that play a role in the problems we now see in the housing market. It's also a problem that plays, but it's not the only one. That's how you make it look.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u325	It's one-on-one connected, right? If you have a certain amount of homes in a country and a certain amount of people increases quickly because the borders are open, then you have a shortage of homes. Well, that makes sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u326	This number of people in the Netherlands has not only increased because of migration. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u327	It has increased by 94% due to migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u328	I said what I wanted to say. It is also a factor involved in the problem of the housing market, so we have to take that into account in the integrated plan that we have already talked about a few times. But it's not the only cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u329	You disagree. Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u330	I note that 94% of it is the cause. Population growth is 94% due to immigration. We have a huge housing problem, and that is because of immigration, because that is 94% the cause of population growth. You can say that there are all kinds of other themes, but this is what happened. It has been VVD policy to leave the borders open. Why don't you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u331	I said something about it. This is also the subject of the plan on the housing market. It's also about what happens when status holders move on to a property on our rental market that's already under such pressure. How do we organize that in a good way? That was the example of Mr Wilders of the woman who has been on the waiting list for 12 years. It's all connected, but you make it look like it's just one-on-one to do with this. I'm gonna distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u332	I give the floor to Mrs Simons van Bij1 and then to Mrs Ploumen van de PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u333	It has been about the housing market and the lack of housing and the vision of housing. In the plans offered, the word "cost sharing standard" is mentioned zero times. We're talking about abolishing the landlord's tax, and I think that's necessary. I think that gives housing corporations room to maintain and build good homes, but that's not an effect that tenants feel directly in their wallets. I also heard Mrs Hermans talk about the experience of the tenants, so she sees it more broadly. So I would very much like to hear from Mrs Hermans how she stands about abolishing the cost-sharing standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u334	That is a subject that often comes along, and I understand that. What people have left in their wallet depends on a lot of factors, and the cost sharing standard also plays a role in that. I'm gonna get back to the formation anyway. When we look at how everything we do works out for people's purchasing power, you have to dare and want to look at everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u335	I'll take that as a yes. Yes, there is Mrs Hermans or Mrs Hermans. her group for open. The abolition of the cost sharing standard is therefore negotiable. Then you're talking about purchasing power. There is of course a very effective way to increase that purchasing power, and that is the minimum wage up to €14. Not once in a while, not once in a while €100 euros, but just make sure that people can do groceries and that they are very important for the well-being of people also have the space to go to the theatre once, to go to an amusement park with the children. We've started to think of that as luxury these days, but I see that as a first need for life. I can't wait to hear what the VVD thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u336	I'm gonna get the cost-sharing standard and the minimum wage. As far as I am concerned, this is part of the point about listening to each other and being open to ideas. This applies to the cost sharing standard, which applies to the minimum wage, and that applies to a lot of other proposals. Also for proposals that we have and which you may not have thought of in the first instance. I only find it difficult to take action now and say yes or no to it. In the end, everything is connected to everything. So yes, I'm willing to look in a wide palette at what we can do to pay attention to the space people feel in their wallet. But I'm not gonna promise here that I'm gonna write one off and raise the other, or the other way around. No, I'm willing to look at everything, but I want to be able to assess it in its entirety for its effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u337	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u338	Spacious. That's good news. It is true that it bears witness to the fact that it is open to thoughts that may not automatically occur to you. But if you are not prepared to reach such compromises here in the debate, then my question is: where and when and where?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u339	In my view, I am prepared to compromise, but I would just like to point out that I want to see the total in many of these kinds of questions. And if we take one measure, to put it bluntly, and put it in a motion tomorrow, that it should be abolished, because it contributes to one purpose or another, I find it complicated. But in the broad discussion we are having today and tomorrow, and certainly in the coming weeks in the budgetary debates, we will look at all the proposals with open and broad eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u340	I shall now go to Mrs Ploumen, then to Mrs Marijnissen and then to Mr Heerma. Mrs Ploumen, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u341	Let's get to that last point. What have we actually been listening to in the words of Mrs Hermans? Reflection graces all of us, so thank you for that. But we have made a number of concrete proposals on what needs to change in the Netherlands. People are stuck finding a house. As far as purchasing power is concerned, people are on the zero line. We are also working to close the pay gap between teachers in primary and secondary education. The climate emergency situation must be declared. These are all very concrete proposals, which must take the Netherlands forward and which can solve the problems. But in everything Mrs Hermans says: yes, I want to take a step and I want to look at it, but this is not the time and not with a motion. But that's our job! That's what we need to do here. So I would like to ask Mrs Hermans: are you prepared to support our proposal to abolish the landlord's tax? Are you willing to close the pay gap between teachers in primary and secondary education? Are you prepared to declare the climate emergency? Are you prepared to ensure that families are no longer on the zero line? This is the moment!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u342	I can reverse the question. Are you also prepared to listen to what we think is important and to what wishes we have? And in the end, it works that way that you make a choice in the balance. In the end, we need a majority and everyone can finally take a step that they think is important. That's what I'm doing here today and what I'm doing here tomorrow. I am listening to your proposals. On some of the proposals, we simply disagree. That's possible, even if we listen to each other very carefully. You can still disagree at the end of the debate. But pretending to reject everything, when I think I started the debate saying that I would so much like to see in these two days where it is possible to find each other... And is it going to be 100% your way, or 100% my way? No, it's never gonna be. But if we come out somewhere in the middle and we solve a problem of people at home, wouldn't that be wonderful?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u343	Yeah, who could be against that? But we are making concrete proposals. You say we have a billion dollars and we're going to turn all these wishes against each other. That is what we say, and several colleagues have said as well: it is not about the billion, it is about the whole budget. We are putting forward proposals. I have not heard you say yes or no on any specific proposal. That's my question. Again, the willingness to cooperate is there. In fact, we would have even joined a formation to negotiate and see if we could get out. But I want hob or calf now. Here, today, it's all about. Are you prepared to abolish the landlord's tax as a contribution to remedying the housing crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u344	I'm not willing to pre... landlord tax... I do not want to abolish the chairman! I'm not prepared to abolish the landlord's tax altogether. In an interruption with Mrs Ploumen and colleagues, I think I have made it quite clear that I am prepared to see if we can do something about a reduction in the landlord's tax compared to performance agreements with corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u345	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u346	Finally. I expected to be able to do business with Mrs Hermans here today. I'm not doing that for us. I'm doing that for the Netherlands. I expected to be able to solve problems. After all, we have a Millions note from a missionary cabinet that falls further apart every day. There is a formation that does not hurry and we now have Mrs Hermans making half-wax commitments and going to look at everything. The red wire through there is the VVD. I have to conclude that the VVD is simply not prepared to solve the problems in the Netherlands. It could be now, today, but I haven't seen that willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u347	I have to conclude that Mrs Ploumen only wants to cooperate if she gets 100% what she wants or if she can dictate and impose her demands on me. The only thing I want to do, and what I'm willing to do, is look for where we can find each other. I'll keep doing that for the rest of today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u348	Mrs Marijnissen and then Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u349	Mrs Hermans spoke a few words about market forces in healthcare. I'm sure she thought I'd bring that up, because I was happy. At least, I thought it was clear from her words that she might think that in the past, or so far, the VVD might have reacted somewhat too rigidly, if I may say so. It is no surprise that the SP has long felt that our concern is not a market. I am therefore curious to hear how Mrs Hermans, for example, looks at specific benefits in health care. We are always like: money for care must go to care. Making a profit is fine, but do it somewhere else than in health care. Does Mrs Hermans therefore agree that, for example, a ban on benefits in health care would really be a good idea to ensure that all the money that we put in the care goes well with our care?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u350	Mrs Marijnissen and I have had debates on this subject before. I totally agree with her that money that is earned in care should end up in care. That doesn't mean I'm pertinent to making a profit in health care. If those profits are used precisely to improve care, to innovate and to enable new forms of care, then I think we are doing the good things with those profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u351	That is why, of course, I was also talking about benefits in health care. I believe that last weekend there was a piece of Follow the Money, which was specifically about youth care. We already have foreign investors there. I mean, how do you think it's possible? In our Dutch youth services foreign investors come, because they find it an interesting earning model. I'm talking about the profit in health care. Does Mrs Hermans agree that we should not just limit ourselves to this, because we have been trying to do this for quite some time, but we are not going to succeed, but that we should simply ban the distribution of profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u352	Mrs Marijnissen is right: there are indeed excesses, especially in youth care, but also in community care. We must put a stop to this, and I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u353	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u354	Good. Well, we're definitely gonna make that proposal here tomorrow. We hope that we can achieve something good for care there. While we are talking about care here, I also have a question about healthcare salaries. Last week, the House of Representatives made a clear statement, namely that EUR 600 million should be added immediately for healthcare salaries, at least as a first step. That is also in a real hurry, for all kinds of reasons that I will not mention now. There are many technical reasons, such as collective bargaining. But it is also in a hurry, because the shortage of care is huge. It is really irresponsible to wait any longer. This House of Representatives has therefore said: yes, the healthcare salaries must be raised. A concrete amount has now been said, namely 600 million. This is paid out of an increase in corporate tax. Does Mrs Hermans agree that this delegationary cabinet should, in fact, just look after the shop in any case carry out this ruling by the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u355	I am well aware that that statement is there. That's a fact. It is probably also well known that we did not vote for it. That's not because I don't give the people in care a higher salary. That is because I do not support the overall proposal you have made. But I think we should wait now to see how the cabinet is going to implement this motion. I think there'll be a letter about that, too. At least I heard you ask that after the vote. I would like to ask Mrs Marijnissen a question back. She may reply to it in her term. I greatly appreciate Mrs Marijnissen's commitment and passion over all these years, but certainly also in the past year, for all the care workers who have worked so hard and work hard in this corona crisis. But we also know that next to pay... In fact, I have to say: "that salary is only an element that is important for people who work in care to continue to work in that care." That there are so many other facets that should keep the work attractive. I would like to go to war with Mrs Marijnissen on one of those subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u356	I give Mrs Marijnissen the floor briefly to respond to this, because you spoke directly to her. Then we go to Mr. Heerma. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u357	Yeah, and also because I didn't get a full answer to my question. I know the VVD was still not in favour of that. That did not support our proposal for higher healthcare salaries, but it was adopted here by the House of Representatives. That is why I am asking you, as a Member of the House of Representatives, whether you at least think that the Demissionary Cabinet, because the House of Representatives has decided to do so, should simply do so. That was my question. Now the answer to your question. Yes, we are going to fight to improve the working conditions of people in care. It's absolutely true that it's not just about pay. It is precisely the discussion we had just before about the market in healthcare that is, of course, something that health care providers run into very hard. That's where a bureaucracy comes back. That's where mistrust comes back. That is a fundamental discussion which we must have here and which I regret to say so far... I hope that, under the guidance of Mrs Hermans, this will change. I am going to make proposals for this, and I am counting on Mrs Hermans' support. Unfortunately, so far, we have seen the VVD mainly as an advocate for seeing our concern as a market. Let's just say that's what caregivers suffer from so much! Let's give our caregivers the confidence they deserve again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u358	I agree 100% with "give them the trust they deserve." GroenLinks and VVD are working on a proposal to provide nurses who work in the care... That makes sense. Work is being done on a proposal to give nurses a place on the board of directors. That's one of the things about giving back that confidence, that sense of autonomy that they have in their profession. But there's more. For example, it's in the rules and the programs. Quite frankly, I'm just looking at subject-K with a critical eye. The program (Ont) Rules of Care does not yield the results you would like, and that is why I made that call to you. In fact, I would very much like to continue working with you on these elements as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u359	Thank you. Mr Heerma and then Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u360	I respect Mrs Hermans the way she's been standing here for hours. Contrary to what Mrs Ouwehand said earlier, I also believe the end of her speech, which as a VVD reflects on the actions of the past period. But I also have a very small edge of discomfort and I'm going to say that anyway. Then I'm gonna ask you a question. If, for example, we have looked over the past period at the crisis in the housing market, I have seen too often that the VVD was not prepared to take steps that were necessary to move forward, and then to challenge Minister Ollongren in debates, that she is on the brakes to come up with solutions. I believe Mrs Hermans that the things she says here mean that things like this have to be different. This also has to do with the way in which we are holding the debate here. That's a sigh. Now I'm going to go to my question. Before she came to the end of her speech, Mrs Hermans talked about criminal undermining. I very much agree with much of what she said about this, and I also think it is right that the cabinet should pay for this. However, I have a critical reflection and one specific question. If the VVD thinks it is so important that that information should be shared, because that is crucial, if you want to be able to deal with it, then hopefully this will be the end of the criticism and resistance of the VVD group against setting up the Multidisciplinary Intervention Team, the MIT, which was requested by Mr Dijkhoff and myself. I hope the VVD sees that that team is necessary to be able to share that information. That is what all the services now admit, who also have resistance and doubts. That's the first thing I want to give you. The second thing I didn't hear about the VVD Group was prevention. And at the moment... I see Mrs Herman's non-verbal saying that she did talk about it, so I misunderstood. Excuse me. I believe that prevention is crucial, because it is not enough simply to share information and punish some sort of war on drugs, tough on crime. It is all necessary, but we must also prevent a breeding ground in the weak neighbourhoods. I hear Mrs Hermans say here: we want to pick more. That's right. Is Mrs Hermans prepared to use that money that has been picked not for the state treasury, but rather to invest it in those weak neighbourhoods, in ex-drug houses that now become community homes and in social workshops where young people can learn a fair trade instead of becoming a drug runner? Is she willing to take that step?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u361	Let me briefly answer that last question. That seems to me to be a constructive proposal to think about. I can imagine something, just because I started with that prevention. Before I went into the repressive measures, I started with prevention, because I fully and touchingly agree with Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u362	In reply to Mrs van der Plas, Mrs Hermans said that we need to listen carefully. I'm sorry I didn't do that here. But would Mrs Hermans also like to comment on the first part of my question? Two years ago, following the terrible murder of Derk Wiersum, we asked each other for a multifunctional team with all these disciplines, because sharing information is the big problem. All the mayors said the information is there, it's not shared, and that's why the criminals are free. That team's coming in now. And that's about this. The VVD is the party that is by far the most critical of this, in contrast to Mrs Hermans' flaming speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u363	I am familiar with that discussion. It seems to me that it is too much to discuss this instrument now, as I would call it, from that committee as such. For the VVD, the main thing is that that team can do what it has to do, without removing capacity from other places in the chain, just to use that horrible word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u364	For that, the money that is now in the budget is extremely helpful. It is the task of representatives of the people, our task to ask questions, to be critical of a proposal that is being made. But this team is coming because of the need to share that information. There was a lot of resistance in the organization. But at the hearing, the round table, which I believe was held last week, everyone said that it should be there, because we need to be able to share that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u365	In my view, the critical questions raised by my group are aimed at ensuring that the team works for which it is intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u366	Mrs Hermans comes back at the end of her speech to what we all hoped from the VVD, namely that a genuinely liberal party is indeed doing what Mr Dijkhoff said earlier. He said: you have a preference for liberal instruments, but perhaps the outcome is not liberal, and then you will have to think about whether you have done well. What he said stands out for climate, for our nature. So the promise is beautiful, but the question is: is that promise being fulfilled? That is not clear to me from Mrs Hermans' speech. Because on the one hand, she says this, and she says that we should be open to change. And if there is a question from GroenLinks, for example, about the climate crisis, or a question from Mrs Ploumen, then the answer is: yes, but it remains a question of negotiation. Of course, the climate doesn't. I would like to remind the VVD Group that there are also judgments from the judge. So, apart from our political preferences, does the VVD also have to move independently in order to achieve those Urgenda goals this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u367	I can't escape the impression that this is an intention thingy. I think I've made sure that the VVD looks at the climate issue. And yes, there is a difference if you reason from the principle: I believe in it and we're going to solve this. I mentioned the title of the book by Klaas Dijkhoff: Everything will be fine. Is it gonna be easy? No. Can you expect us to do everything we can and to keep thinking about extra things that need to happen? Yes. But I have shown our intention and intention here today throughout this debate to do everything in our power here. I am really sorry that Mrs Ouwehand again, I do not know how long I am standing here now to question that intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u368	Apparently, this is sensitive. I didn't do that at all. I simply asked: okay, so we take the climate crisis seriously and the VVD comes back to its liberal principles and is open to change, but then there is something weird, because in the direction of parties with a green heart, Mrs Hermans reacts with "but it is in negotiation." What is it? Then I really remind the VVD of the independent obligation of the State to comply with the agreements made. The judge has not said for nothing that human rights are being violated, the right of citizens to protect their lives and well-being against dangerous climate change. That's a big deal. GroenLinks does not need to come and beg whether the VVD wants to take that seriously. You're gonna have to take care of that yourself. I can't get that impression. In fact, in the Millions note, this cabinet simply says: we are not going to get that one and a half degree anymore. So what is it? That has nothing to do with intentions. You just have to do your duty here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u369	Mrs Ouwehand suggests that I want to negotiate climate targets. On the contrary, I believe that I have made it perfectly clear that we are not negotiating on this issue, that these goals are our priority and that we want to achieve them because we want to pass this country on cleanly and because we want future generations to be able to live well and well here too. What we're negotiating has something to do with money. That was about the landlord's tax. That too is an important issue, but please do not mix that part that I have negotiated with the total commitment I have expressed on behalf of my group in favour of climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u370	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u371	The cabinet broke the verdict in the Urgenda case. That's not gonna work out for this year. That's for the VVD to solve on its own. I ask Mrs Hermans about that. I would very much like the VVD to be open to change from now on, but one of the most important, effective and easiest measures we can take to bring those climate targets a little closer is to switch from animal to plant food. Then the VVD suddenly acts very spastic and we can't talk about it. Then I think: it's not really "open to change" if you don't want to change what you do on your sandwich; you're not gonna change society with that. So I don't understand what the outcome of those two stories of the VVD is: we take it very seriously, we reflect, we are open to change and climate is certainly the biggest challenge of our time versus feasible and affordable, we don't say anything about not reaching the Urgenda goals, "I don't know" say when Mr Klaver comes to ask if we will do a climate OMT and say "that doesn't really move me" when asked if we will say that there is a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u372	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u373	What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u374	When I said "open to change," I did make a call that it had to come from both sides. If, in my case, "open to change" is only well appreciated by you if I change completely in your direction, I fear we will not get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u375	Last summer, Mrs Hermans and I had the pleasure of working on the document together with Mr Rutte and Mrs Kaag. The atmosphere was pleasant. As far as I am concerned, that ultimately resulted in a beautiful piece in which we also addressed a lot of the themes that we are talking about today. I was only shocked when I heard your party leader yesterday. He said, "It was never meant to be a piece where other parties could join." That is what Mr Rutte said after the speech of the throne in conversation with all kinds of journalists. Quite frankly, I think that a lot of Dutch people are wondering: what have those VVDs and D66s actually been doing for two months if that piece was never meant to see how you can move forward in the formation? So my question is: does Mrs Hermans share Mr Rutte's view that this document was never intended as a document for other parties to join?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u376	Mr Jetten and I, as well as Mr Harbers and Mr Van Weyenberg, have worked very hard on this document. I have done so with great pleasure and motivation, because that affects all the subjects that have passed through here. The aim of that piece was to see where the VVD and D66, the two largest parties in Parliament, can find each other, on which we agree and which we say together: we have to work on this. That was that document for me, that is that document for me and that remains that document for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u377	I'm glad to hear that. Then there is some light between Mr Rutte and Mrs Hermans. I would also like to take up a few points, such as the motion put forward by Mrs Hammer, in which the mandate is to have VVD and D66 write a document on the main lines, so that coalition negotiations with parties can be held in mid-August. When journalists ask Mrs Hamer what kind of document they should produce, the answer is: 'A document that goes a step further than the document that I have already produced as an informant, where Mrs Hermans also says that they can express their own political views, but in such a way that there is openness to the positions of the parties that will follow'. Then the question to Mrs Hamer is how this process is going to proceed with the joining of other parties. Then Mrs Hamer says: "Then when writing the document, VVD and D66 will have to look carefully where we can find the connection with other parties." I think those are sensible words from Mrs Hammer. That's why we worked on that piece for weeks. That is why I was disappointed in the words of your party leader. I will also ask him tomorrow when he himself is addressed in the answer. If I take a little trip to today's debate, apart from a somewhat bizarre opening of this APB, I have so far seen a long debate in which everyone is trying to get on with their content. Mrs Ploumen was just very critical of what has happened so far in this debate, but I am actually quite optimistic. I see a debate where all kinds of constructive forces from the middle are looking together to see how we can get a step further; can we get a step further on this budget for 2022, and perhaps also for the years to come? My question to Mrs Hermans is therefore: do you really like the fact that we are now discussing these substantive solutions with so many parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u378	Mrs. Hermans. Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u379	What a good question from Mr. Jetten. I actually like it very much. Interruptions sometimes seem to give the impression that we are still not in complete agreement, but I think that the debate we have had so far, with me or with the VVD Group, is the debate that it should be. Of course, my desire for cooperation does not mean that we will always agree with nineteen parties, or that we will always walk out of the Chamber high-fiving after a debate and fall into each other's arms, or that there will never again be differences of opinion. That is not going to happen, and it should not be, because that is not politics. This plenary is the place where opinions, beliefs and ideals must clash. It may collide hard and at the end you may disagree, but I just said that I'm looking, hear and taste between the lines that we can really get somewhere with each other. I am in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u380	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u381	That is a hopeful end to Mrs Hermans' extremely long first term. Respect for the way she did it so long from behind the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u382	First Mr Segers and then Mr Omtzigt. Then Mr Azarkan has one more question and after that I really want to suspend. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for a minute until the Prime Minister gets back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u383	Just as I arrive...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u384	Yeah, that's kind of a natural, biological moment. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u385	There are still a number of interruptions. First of all, Mr Segers and then Mr Omtzigt. Then there is a question from Mr Azarkan. After that, I really want to end it. Then I think Mrs Hermans has stood long enough and it is time for a lunch break. I shall first give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u386	The Prime Minister looks very relieved. Welcome back. For the viewers at home: just before the break we had two liberal parties who were congratulating each other on the piece they had written themselves. Good. Great when you're behind it; that's important. However, I would like to receive a small review, also in the light of previous debates and earlier moments. It's about fees. In all seriousness: Mr Marijnissen pointed out the documentary that has been shown this week with truly heartbreaking stories. Apart from those stories, the cause of this is the supplement system, which has been far too complicated. A year ago, I asked your predecessor, Mr Dijkhoff: should we not get rid of it? "Yes," he said, "only we don't know very well." In the election program it was: yes, it has to be, but we don't know very well yet. We had a debate on the report. Then it was: yes, we need to get rid of those surcharges, but we don't know that well yet. Now you can write a piece. This has become a liberal piece in many ways. But then I would hope that it also says: "We have to get rid of these surcharges. We must move towards a tax reform. It has to be simpler. It must be more just." And I mean going one step further than just saying: yes, we have to, but we don't really know how to do it yet. We are now a step further, a year after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u387	I understand Mr Segers' question. I'm gonna give him an answer he doesn't like. Yes, we have that ambition. I think we have already said that as a VVD. You have already referred to it: it is also included in our electoral programme as such. But we didn't find the route to do it in a good way. This is also the case in this summer's discussions on this document. We have talked about this in the same way. I feel with Mr Segers that we need to deal with the supplement system, partly because of the terrible thing that happened around the childcare allowance. But in all honesty: I just don't know what the alternative and the best solution is. I do think that if you abolish something that a lot of people are using, that's also right and understandable, and a lot of people are dependent on, you have to know how to do it and how to take care of them in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u388	I understand that peripheral condition, because it is a very far-reaching operation that has an effect on people who really need to have these surcharges. So you're gonna have to do something about the minimum wage. You're gonna have to do something about the distribution of wealth and income. But we're gonna have to do it. But we've passed on a plan and put it on the table. Other parties have done the same. But if all the preparatory work has been done now, if each time the desire has been expressed to move towards a simpler and fairer tax system, and if the Secretary of State for Finance has laid down scenarios and done preparatory work, is this not the time to do so? We say: at the moment, in this way, it doesn't work anymore and the damage we have seen in that documentary is too big to leave it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u389	In my opinion, that document also states that this time requires intervention on a number of dossiers that will last longer than one cabinet period. I think this subject is one of them. There are scenarios and options, but they also directly show how complicated it is. Now we shouldn't back down from something complicated. On the contrary, I would like to say that we must get to grips with this. But I would also like to be careful to put something here as if it could be arranged tomorrow. You are not suggesting that at all, but that is the reservation I have to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u390	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u391	One final question, but I'd like to get a commitment on that point. Of course we don't have that done right away. But if we are going towards a more open administrative culture and a dualism in which we are also looking in the distinction between opposition and coalition for policies with wider support, this is an excellent undertaking in which you could seek that broader support. Is it a firm intention of the VVD Group to work towards a tax reform in the coming period, towards that simpler and fairer recasting and reform of the tax system?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u392	We have the surcharges and the tax system. Again everything is connected with everything, I think. And yes, the ambition is to look at the system of surcharges, in width and with all parties here in the Chamber, precisely because it is so important. So yes, I can make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u393	Thank you. Mr Omtzigt and finally Mr Azarkan, with one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u394	In the debate on the Minutes, which I followed with more than average interest from Enschede, Mrs Hermans said: you get the impression that managing the political process was more important than solving political problems. It was about how Members of Parliament had been discussed in the Council of Ministers. That wasn't very nice. Then we heard a Prime Minister say that there were radical ideas for a new governance culture. Has the VVD seen radical ideas being implemented for a new governance culture? And if not, which one should we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u395	That is what I said in the debate. I also think that this is what I said at the time, in my opinion, that we really need to do things differently than we have done so far. We have often talked about coalition transfer and the question to what level of detail there is contact and coordination between Cabinet and Chamber. We have talked about a coalition agreement, which hopefully will come soon. How detailed do you make that and what space does it give for the debate between the Chamber and the Cabinet? We will have to take steps in the next period. In addition, you can extend the subject of governance culture very widely. In response to the report on the childcare allowance, I believe that the cabinet has also written down a number of actions which should contribute to this better culture and better information position of Parliament. These are, of course, aspects of that culture. You can see it's going faster on one plane than on the other. I believe that you have also asked written questions about this. I agree with you that all these agreements have been made and that all those steps that the cabinet has promised to take must be followed and taken as a matter of urgency and priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u396	The latter is important. In January, the cabinet said that there will be a government commissioner for information management. It might be boring for me to bring up archives. You can't think of anything more dusty than that. But if the archives aren't in order and the Tax Office doesn't know when something has been recovered, then as a citizen, you're rightless. This government has managed to get rid of certain things and not to archive them. A long history in the Netherlands, eh: we always lose receipts and photo rolls when it suits the government. Other archives turned out to have blacklists, but those were archives they weren't allowed to have and kept secret. And that's what made civilians the victim. Except that government commissioner hasn't been appointed. It was due to be appointed before 1 July. There's not even a date on which he's appointed anymore. In the Afghanistan debates, we were not given any lists of decisions. So we got the promise here: the government publishes the list of decisions it takes. That does not apply to the internal debate. I understand that, because ministers must also be able to discuss with each other. But a government makes decisions, and we control those decisions. And you know what the new governance culture is? It is that no more lists of decisions are drawn up in the sub- councils and put them in the executives, so that they cannot be sent to the Chamber. Does the VVD agree with me that at least that government commissioner should be appointed and that decision lists should be kept? It's almost too crazy for words. Every football club has to make decision lists. Everyone has to keep track of them, except for the underarms.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u397	I share Mr Omtzigt's view that what has been promised and agreed must be respected, whether they have been exchanged in the letter or in the debates on the report on the child care allowance affair. If that does not happen and if it is not explained why it is, then I can ask the same question to the cabinet together with you. Because the ambition that these actions should be carried out is shared entirely with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u398	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u399	I am glad to hear that, because I have seen little progress on these points so far. I'll come back to it in my term. The Constitutional Court is not being prepared. There is no standard for independent research. The cabinet is the only one in the Netherlands who is allowed to investigate himself. Whether it is about Afghanistan, about aid to the Syrian rebels or about the child care allowance affair, the cabinet itself gives the order and tells itself what documents it provides. And then there's nothing from an investigation like that, is there? Nothing came out of the Donner Committee. It was only at the Van Dam committee that it became clear that there was a very big problem with the childcare allowance. I am glad that the VVD supports that, and I hope the rest of the Chamber will do the same, because only if you get a little more openness will you get some more problems over the table at the beginning, but we are there to solve problems and not to wipe them under the carpet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u400	Mr President, perhaps a very brief response. I think that Mr Omtzigt is quite right here and that these agreements, or the commitments made by the cabinet, must be kept. The whole debate has dealt with confidence in politics on a number of occasions. This may not be visible, but it does lay the foundation under the trust that people have and need to get back into politics. That is why I support his point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u401	Thank you. Mr Azarkan van DENK, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u402	Yes, Mr. Chairman, just before lunch. I noticed that Mrs Hermans reacted a bit peckishly when a little bit of her intention was doubted. She actually asks for confidence: go talk to me, go with me in the sea and don't doubt my intentions. But what does it look at in the last ten years, in which the VVD, who delivered the Prime Minister in charge of the cabinet, has caused tens of thousands of victims in the premium affair? You're gonna see the movie. I've seen him twice. Bring handkerchiefs. Over the past ten years, under the leadership of the VVD, serious crime has not been tackled, which means that we now have to invest hugely. Over the last ten years, the VVD has demolished the housing market, or housing. Over the last ten years, we've been hunting our young people over the blade. On what basis does the VVD deserve that trust?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u403	Taking ten years of responsibility means ten years of things that go well and things that don't go well. And you list a number of things that have indeed not gone well, for which we have also taken responsibility, and for which we, as a VVD, have also started to think, as I outlined earlier, in our group and in our party. But just pretending it was nothing but trouble and torment, I do not think that is right where we are now with this country, where, despite the corona crisis of last year, we are now with our economy, with the opportunities ahead of us to prepare this country for the future. And that is what I feel motivated about, and my entire group. We'll work hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u404	Thank you. I would like to thank Mrs Hermans for her comprehensive reply. I'm suspending the meeting until 3:40 p.m. Then we shall begin with Mr Jetten of D66.
