ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone. The next item is the VAO Renovation Binnenhof / temporary housing Tweede Kamer. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman as the first speaker on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought, "If I walk fast, no one's gonna notice I accidentally forgot my nice shoes."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	Well, I've seen it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	We're just gonna do it. Mr. Chairman. I think we've had a big debate. My group has said that we have problems with how the organisation works at the moment. For example, we had to hear from the media that the temporary location was much more expensive than the amount we knew as a Chamber. We do not think that is a good way of doing things. We have said that we really want this debate to be extremely boring. Because it's painful for all of us to keep debating ourselves, and it's even more painful when another political project gets out of hand in terms of finances and time overruns. It's just something we all have to avoid. There are plenty of crises in the country. Let us simply make this debate boring, and therefore a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the renovation of the Binnenhof is an important project which must be carried out properly;]] [[noting that there have been multiple problems, including delays and cost overruns;]] [[having also noted that the current organisational structure only late the House of Representatives had problems;]] [[declares that the House of Representatives must have a steering and controlling role in the renovation of the Binnenhof;]] [[calls on the government to review the current division of tasks and roles and to propose in spring 2021 how the division of tasks can be organised in such a way as to give the Lower House more insight and grip,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Smeulders, Mr Kuik, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van Otterloo and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	It's an enlightening question. The motion states "the House of Representatives." Brightness is needed in governance. What am I supposed to mean by that? Is that the Home Affairs Committee? Is that a job of the Bureau? I think we need to get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	That is indeed confusing. In this case, I am mainly talking about our committee, which, of course, ultimately takes decisive decisions. But in the "requests the government" we are actually asking for the following very simply. Look at all the tasks and roles that are currently there, make a proposal to the Chamber of Representatives. It may also be several proposals and several options are................................................................................................................................................... We ourselves would like to say that we need more grip and a steering role.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Everyone's gonna look at your shoes, so hurry back to your seats. I now give the floor to Mr Middendorp on behalf of the VVD. It looks neat. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I thought Mrs. Beckerman looked nice, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	Yeah, me too. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. The renovation of our beautiful Binnenhof. We have talked about it longer since 2015 in this house than the renovation with five and a half years is going to take. The last discussion about this, the debate before Christmas, was also good. Fortunately, no palm trees, captains and ships came along. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this and for the commitments made on, for example, security, temporary housing and project structure. Despite the fact that it was a good debate again before Christmas, I agree with Mrs Beckerman. I described it differently in the debate, but we need to talk less about it and get to work on it. There are really a lot of lessons to learn from the past period, about the project structure for example. Mrs Beckerman has just raised good things about this too. I think that this confusion, which was mentioned just a moment ago in the course of the interruption, is particularly important. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the renovation of the Binnenhof complex requires both democratic control and proper execution, but that the complex project structure and cooperation between government, government real estate company, users and Second Chamber as auditor often make this difficult and that improvements are possible;]] [[considers that the parliamentary process should be able to proceed safely at any time and that this should also apply to the use of temporary accommodation during the renovation process, including in the case of possible corona restrictions;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that those concerned cooperate closely during the five and a half years during which the renovation of the Binnenhof complex is to take place, including in making temporary housing operational;]] [[calls on the Government to make improvements to the administrative structure of the project, aimed at improving the link between decision-making and implementation, including the regularity of delivery of financial information to the House of Representatives twice a year by sharing this financial information in a clear and consistent manner and as detailed as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Middendorp and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The renovation of the Binnenhof, a dossier that we have actually talked about too often in recent times, especially when the country is in crisis. That is why we believe it is important to draw a line here today and to move forward vigorously. In our view, a few things have to be done. The first is that we need to improve governance, the way we handle this project. Because it hasn't been done well in the past few years in different phases. And this beautiful building, this beautiful complex is being renovated for five and a half years, so let's please learn from it and make improvements, so that those next five and a half years go well. Mrs Beckerman has just tabled a motion on our behalf. We sincerely hope that this governance will improve. The second point that we consider to be very important is that this building, this building complex, should be properly refurbished, that the agreements made this summer should be kept. I'd like the Secretary of State to confirm that here, too. And I want us to make this building very, very sustainable. We're gonna renovate this for 30, 40, 50 years. By 2050 our country must be climate neutral, and this building cannot be left behind; hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, as a country, we are facing a huge sustainability challenge and that the government should set a good example;]] [[Whereas further sustainability measures are possible in the renovation of the Binnenhof complex;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts to ensure that the entire Binnenhof complex is refurbished as sustainably as possible, at least using HR++ glass and partitions to further improve insulation, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the start of the renovation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smeulders, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Eijs, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Van Otterloo and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you. Then Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that I, as an architect, am very happy to look at all the dossiers in detail, look at many reports and dig through drawings, I actually have to agree with the previous speakers that we have talked about this too often, and also in a way that we wouldn't want to talk about too often, namely that it is not going well. That is why I can agree with previous speakers who say: let us now see how things can be done better. I can also join Mr Smeulders of GroenLinks on sustainability, for which we have previously drawn attention together with the Christian Union. That is why I am wholeheartedly under his motion to see how we can get this building complex ready for the future. That said, I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 2016 the decision was taken to move together as a whole of the House of Representatives for the necessary renovation of the Binnenhof;]] [[Whereas, following this decision, the former Ministry of Foreign Affairs was put in place as temporary accommodation for the House of Representatives against a substantial investment;]] [[declares that the House of Representatives will take all necessary steps to move to the temporary accommodation at Bezuidenhout 67 in the summer recess of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Eijs, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Middendorp and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Chairman. I think it has been a good debate. I have already said in that debate that I agree with what Mrs Beckerman said, namely that it is good to get this project out of the heat of the daily conversation and that work is being done on the approach and on a good transfer to the new location. I also think we can do better in terms of direction, so it's okay if we look at that. The Christian Union wholeheartedly supports the motions and has also submitted one of the two. It is also important to prepare now. I have two more questions for the Secretary of State, whom I would like to address. The Christian Union would like to make sure that the annexes on the other side of the Square for the Lower House will also be preserved. Can the Secretary of State confirm that he is? If the House of Representatives indicates that those who need it are also aware that additional workplaces must be realized and then retained for the House of Representatives and are they well prepared? The question that relates to this is: what else is needed to clarify the additional workplaces that need to be completed? The Jetten motion extends the support of the House of Representatives. How are we going to shape that? The second point is childcare. Earlier, we were given the impression that the childcare location would be properly regulated, but my impression is that no decision has yet been taken and that there is still no clarity as to where it will end up. It is incredibly important for the Christian Union to realize this provision and to put it behind us as a matter of urgency. I know there's a location on the horizon. I think it is important to say here that if the House of Representatives, the childcare organisation and the parent committee indicate that this is the preferred location, it must also be properly prepared. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid I'm going to have to represent the voice of the past today. I haven't become a spirit yet, so I won't put this ruler down as some kind of Scrooge, but I have been terribly surprised at all the nonsense that is being told about how hard it was last time. As a result of the consultations we have had, I have once again checked with a number of colleagues from the past. No one could recognize themselves in the stories that it was so terrible to stay here. We then note that the First Chamber remains here with its capacity to meet. I took the trouble yesterday to read the safety report at the last minute. The only conclusion I can draw from that, without leaking from it, is that we're about to have two complexes that we need to secure instead of one. I've already talked about the Monkey Rock in the AO. Of course B67 stands for Bezuidenhoutseweg 67, but it also stands for an exile of 67 months. It is a very sad observation that the entire parliament goes into exile for 67 months, as far as the House of Representatives is concerned. The First Chamber, next door, can stay in the Knight's Room. They can take even more grandeur from the past. But the House of Representatives is banished to B67, which also has a more open location in the context of security. We talked about that in the AO. That has led me to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the previous renovation and more radical new construction in the early 1990s Parliamentary work in the Lower House could take place without any significant problems;]] [[Whereas the proposed renovation of the House of Representatives will involve less major work than that of the previous time;]] [[Whereas there is no clear evidence that the move to B67 will lead to significantly lower costs, nor that connecting all the work at the Binnenhof complex will lead to a shorter construction time;]] [[Whereas the location of B67 entails additional sensitivity in terms of safety and protection of the House of Representatives;]] [[having regard to the fact that the money already spent in B67 has not been disposed of, since this location can be used as a landing;]] [[considering the recognizability of the present Binnenhof complex for the Dutch Parliament;]] [[declares that it is desirable to refrain from moving to B67,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-114]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry this motion was so long, but I still wanted to try to be a bit complete in this very long file.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you. You did well, not within the speaking time, but yes. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr President. If you submit a motion in which the Lower House is put more on the box, as was done in the motion of both the SP and the initiator of the VVD, then you should not be surprised that we will talk about this regularly in the future, also in this gremium. I think it's okay, too. It's not a simple process. It's complicated. That's been said. At the time, we deliberately opted for the option to phase-in the overall complex with all users. That was not the choice of the Chamber at the time and then the route towards complete removal was used. In the awareness of our group, it is not real anymore to say that we are taking a step back and we are starting from scratch. That is not a credible path. There are some concerns in that whole process, including the follow-up. The Secretary of State has made a number of commitments. I thank him for that. They have removed some of these concerns, but there is every reason to keep a close eye on this issue of security, especially the additional security measures to be taken in the context of the covid pandemic. The logistics of access and catering is also important in this context. And what we are not quite sure about is financial reporting. The Secretary of State has made clear, clear commitments on this point. I hope that this will indeed be done in this way, because it cannot be said that we have exceeded our own budget so generously that on birthdays you can no longer say with any pride that it has worked within the deadlines and budget. Mr. Chairman. I have signed the motion of both SP and the VVD, with whom we have prepared the motion. This means that the President has at least one motion less; a slight exceedance of speaking time will then forgive me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The renovation has been known for a long time. Since I've been in this house for a number of years, I've unfortunately had to go through that whole history too. At the same time I cover for Lilianne Ploumen, because she now has another role. That's the way it goes in this house sometimes. Let me say two things. It's not always a nice process and not always a nice process, but it's about something. It's about our home, where we do our jobs and where we have to do our jobs for the next five years. Secondly, it is also about the face of the city of Amsterdam and about the place where we have many young people and children...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	Amsterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	Did I say Amsterdam? The Hague. Then I'm not even from there! Can you check it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	Maybe we can move there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	That suggestion has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u26	I know. That's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u27	Excuse me. My brain works from time to time something different and weird, but I live in Breda, so that has nothing to do with it. Back to the story. It is, of course, also the place where we simply receive a lot of children and young people to show them how our parliament works. So the moment you move, you only do that if you're convinced that that's wise and the only way to go. If there's something I've been shocked about over the years, it's the information. He was a total pain in the ass. It was downright bad. We have constantly had to take steps back, even though we were already in a trap. This means that I have serious doubts as to whether we have really made the right decisions. There are new facts on the table all the time. There is now another report on whether it could be phased out. But it also applies to the reports that are already there, including on the subject of security. That is also my question to the Secretary of State: why should this be available again? Why can't that be made public? I honestly don't understand that. One of the most important conditions we had set was that we could go one-on-one. In the new B67 I will not name it as the honourable Member of 50PLUS has done. There will soon be three committees and not five, as we do have here. If Corona stays with us for a very long time, this means a reduction in the way in which we can shape our democracy together. Mr. Chairman. There's gonna be a couple of motions ahead in a minute. I've signed a number of motions. I will take this back to my group, and on that basis we will take decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. It feels a bit like the end of a discussion this morning, because we have already talked about so many alternatives with what for us feels a bit like the finish in sight. Are we going to take that step to temporary housing or not? But all the motions about governance and what remains to be done in the future show that we are only at the beginning. That sometimes scares me a little, because when we are renovated and remodeled in this place, we are going to find so much that we would have liked to take into account the very best intentions, but which we will run into anyway. For this type of project: once you try to decide, they are characterised by the determination not to let it run out, not even in the budget. There has to be that determination. That is why, on behalf of the CDA, I wholeheartedly support VVD and SGP's proposal to gain much more control over the financial side of the story. I also agree with Mrs Beckerman's motion that the Chamber should have much more control over this. If you ask me personally, "Do you really want to go to B67?', Here's what I'm saying. I was allowed to visit, as were many of my colleagues. It looks fantastic downstairs. There's some sort of rebuilt plenary room there. But yes, I'm here in the beautiful historic Justice Building. I don't really like that trade-in for a white office garden either. I hear a lot of saying: this is our workplace. That's right; it's our workplace. But this is ultimately also the home of the citizen, because we represent democracy here. What matters to the CDA group is that it would not be for the public to explain that we now have a completely new housing, where we will have to live with restrictions, just like in this building because of corona, but everything is being done to make it work, and we would not use it. That is precisely why we also support the motion tabled by Mrs Van Eijs from D66. We really have to get to the bottom of each other's throats to get to that place in the summer. Then I hope that, within the agreed five and a half years, we can sit here again with each other, or at least with a whole group of new MPs, in a new, renovated and renovated Binnenhof. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you. Then I'll look at the Secretary of State. You can respond right away? That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Members for their input. Mrs Beckerman said it in the debate, and it was repeated by others: it should actually be very boring. At the same time, I would say this to Mr Bishop after the motion tabled by Mrs Beckerman is one in which she is sure that there will still be a lot of discussion about it. I think that is also fine, because it is part of such a large project, which has been set out very clearly from the outset as a project to ensure that the continuity of the parliamentary process, safety and operational security are ensured and that the burden on the user is minimised, and that it is carried out soberly and efficiently, at EUR 475 million at the 2015 price level. That's the job there is. I think it is a good thing that the Chamber is also looking into this and that it is also checking it, as it has done recently through the Committee on the Interior. The first motion, the motion in part No. Mrs Beckerman's 110, in which she asked the government to review the current division of tasks and roles and to propose in spring 2021 how the division of tasks could be organised in such a way that the House of Representatives, as a supervisory body, I understood that it would just gain more insight and grip, is a proposal on which I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber. I also indicated in the debate that it was important to strengthen these roles, tasks and responsibilities, including for the process. As Mr Van der Molen has just said, this process is actually only about to begin, including in its implementation. We're gonna be doing this process for a long time. We are, of course, now in a preliminary draft. This is all about to become more concrete. And we're moving very quickly. This means that we need to look closely at governance and governance. I'm willing to take a good look at that. I can therefore leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 111 by Mr Middendorp and Mr Bishop. It calls on the Government to cooperate closely with all parties involved for five and a half years, i.e. for the entire Binnenhof, for all parties involved in this process, and for improvements to the administrative structure to ensure a better link between decision-making and implementation and in particular to share financial information with the Chamber in a consistent and as detailed a manner as possible. I indicated in the debate that I fully understand that question. I can therefore leave the verdict on this motion to the House. Then the motion to part No. Mr Smeulders, supported by Mrs Beckerman, Mrs Van Eijs, Mr Van der Molen, Mrs Van der Graaf, Mr Van Otterloo and Mrs Kuik. It calls on the government to make maximum efforts to ensure that the entire Binnenhof complex is renovated as sustainably as possible, at least using HR++ glass and front walls. Of course, we have a task-setting budget, as I indicated in the debate. It also includes a large number of sustainability measures. However, the measures you are proposing are outside this financial scope. I have indicated that I understand that you are asking for this, also in view of the exemplary role that there is, but I cannot at the moment undertake it, because it is part of the usual process of spring decision-making, which, of course, has to be carried out by the Cabinet. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that the measures you have mentioned fall within the maximum effort, then I can leave the opinion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 113 by Mrs Van Eijs is a speech-expression. Mrs. Van der Graaf asked about the location of the daycare center. In consultation with the users, several options have been examined, such as previously the Logement, including at the request of the BBC, the Construction Guidance Committee. However, this did not meet the expectations. At the request of the user, an initial analysis of an alternative was then made in June 2020, the so-called Depot at the Bleijenburg. In September, the request for further investigation of this site came next, because there are also a few challenges that I would like to put forward. That further study is now almost complete, the feasibility study, including the design of the project. This will soon go to the House of Representatives as a user: the House of Representatives, the BBC and then the Bureau. As far as I am concerned, if the Presidium says yes to this, it is an acceptable solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u32	The motion in part No. 113 and the motion in part No. 114 are speech-expressions. It is therefore very logical that the cabinet does not judge this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u33	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u34	But if these two motions are not adopted, is it right that the move should continue? Suppose those motions were the motion in part no. 113 and the motion in part No. 114 It is true that neither is being accepted, which does not seem logical to me, is it true that the move is still going ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u35	I indicated earlier in the debate that everything that was agreed at the time, in 2015, and the entire route that was followed, including the availability and preparation of B67 and all the investments made there, resulted in that complex being ready now, as far as the House of Representatives is concerned. For the other users there are other locations where they are going. So there's nothing in the way to keep moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u36	Exactly. I'm gonna be honest with you about what the problem is. I'm just having a little problem with the "considerable" in the motion in part No. 113. That's what I just stated in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u37	What motion are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u38	On the motion in part No. 113. If it's accepted or not, it doesn't matter, so that means it doesn't matter what you vote here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u39	But it's a "spoken" motion. Then I think it is also pure if the government refrains from commenting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u40	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I also think it would be absolutely undesirable for the government not to do so. But my point of principle is that the fact that a group votes in favour or against does not say so much about whether or not to move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u41	Then you've made your point. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u42	Then I come to Mrs Van der Graaf's question as to which premises the House of Representatives has at its disposal at the time of moving back, say five and a half years from now. In a letter to the Presidium in April last year, I stated that I would guarantee that adequate quality and quantity of housing would be returned. I also understand that the House of Representatives has indicated that they would prefer to return to the current premises. That is also the starting point for us as a real estate company. In the meantime, you will understand that we must, of course, put together a whole puzzle for what needs to be done with these buildings and how to make them suitable. In addition, the point you mentioned yourself, namely the Jetten motion and what it is going to mean for additional support and extra places. We will discuss this with the House of Representatives in the coming period. We're gonna work that out. Of course, we are also looking at what is actually happening here on the square kilometer, and what real estate positions are being released to ensure that the parliamentary process can proceed as smoothly as possible after five and a half years, if we come back here again. Then I come to the Van Otterloo motion on part No. 114. That's also a "spoken" move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u43	Yeah, that's also a "spoken" move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u44	Then there's another question from Mrs. Chicken. A great deal has already been said about long history, and this has also been discussed in this debate. If I am not allowed to speak about Mr Van Otterloo's motion, I can at least say that he went back to the 1990s to explain that he could. However, in response to Mrs Kikken's question as to why safety is not made public, I do not think we need to explain to anyone how important security is at this time. We want to inform the Chamber as much as possible, but it is not really convenient to make all kinds of security reports public, because we want to guarantee the safety of the residents of the complexes, whether that is B67 or the new House of Representatives. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u45	I had made one comment about what I missed in the report, namely that two buildings need to be secured at the same time. After all, this place should not only be protected as a construction site. For the Lower House, there can be no work here, because the construction site is dangerous, but apparently that does not apply to the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u46	Yes, you did ask a question about that. As far as the First Chamber is concerned, as long as the covid situation makes this necessary, you know that there are currently large-scale plans to proceed with the vaccination, which means that that is a temporary something may use the Knight's Room, because that Knight's Room is also placed outside the scope. This may also apply to other users of the Knight's Room. But that's a temporary thing. That will not hinder the work on this part of the complex, unless it would take years, but we do not assume that it will. Then we'll have to come up with another solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u47	That answer goes next to the question. Perhaps the First Chamber would like to continue to use the Knight's Room, because the senators I speak to are very satisfied with the historical heritage where they are. As long as this is the case, you have the situation that the Knight's Room needs extra security against people who want to harm all the building materials that are here. Isn't that the same argument as the argument that's just being used to move in front of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u48	But the measure of things is not whether the senators would like to stay there, let me make it clear. They are there, because there are no covidproof meetings in the present First Chamber. At the time the vaccinations are completed, around the summer, they can just go to their new location to meet there. At least the entire Binnenhof will close.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u49	But that's not the question, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u50	No, my question was about the need to secure two places.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u51	Yes, so temporarily you will be somewhat limited, at the stage in which we begin the first work here. The same applies to the other parts of the Binnenhof. But we assume that the First Chamber will use the Knight's Room until the summer. Until then, the present House of Representatives will continue to function here. If this is no longer necessary because of covid conditions, and we assume that this is the case in summer, they will also go to a new location.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u52	Good. Well, yes, Mr. Van Otterloo. It's an important...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u53	It is, of course, very difficult to look into the future, but all we do know is that all vaccination strategies do not aim for everyone to be vaccinated before the summer and that therefore helps to achieve the right result. So I don't know how we're gonna be in the Chamber... I won't be a part of that myself, but I don't know how the Chamber itself will be in the new building...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u54	We're all going through that, Mr. Van Otterloo. Thank you. That also brings us to the end of this VAO. I thank everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u55	The votes will be taken at the beginning of the afternoon meeting. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.30 a.m.
