ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u1	We shall continue the two-minute debate on legal professions. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP. Excuse me, I'm too forward. We'll wait until the minister arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u2	We shall continue the two-minute debate on legal professions. I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna get to the national attorney first, Pels Rijcken. There's a lot going on there, there's a lot going on. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been years of fraud, failure of supervision and a diseased working culture at Pels Rijcken;]] [[considers that fundamental rethinking and redesigning of the phenomenon of a national attorney is necessary;]] [[points out that a national attorney of undisputed conduct should therefore continue with Pels Rijcken is not in the interest of the State;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the time-limit for stopping Pels Rijcken as a national attorney in new cases and to consider in detail the way in which the State should stand up in future in legal disputes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-695]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u4	Then I have a motion on the interpreters and translators. We also discussed this during the committee debate on legal professions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the revenues of the registry interpreters and translators have been significantly reduced by the way in which the fees are calculated and by the low minimum rates after tenders;]] [[whereas most interpretation assignments do not last an hour, which means that payout per minute is a de facto cut which does not even outweigh an increase in hourly rates;]] [[Whereas paying out registry translators by target language leads to large pay differences among translators, whereas payouts by standard rule result in balanced remuneration which ensures that translation into all languages remains equally attractive;]] [[Considers that registry interpreters and translators play a crucial role in our rule of law and should be treated and rewarded as such;]] [[calls on the Government to pay registry interpreters per hour on the basis of indexed hourly rates and to pay registry translators on the basis of standard rules and indexed rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-696]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u5	A single comment fits in with this. Because the Minister is now going to explain how the procurement system works. That is not necessary, because this is really limited to the reasonableness of the tariffs. I find it impossible to believe that these people still have a rate from 1981 and 1963. So even if you want to maintain the market forces and the tenders, you can still ensure that the mediators are able to pay reasonable prices. That's the point of the motion. The market forces and the calls for tenders really do not belong in this domain as far as the SP is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u6	I thank Mr Van Nispen. I call Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We discussed Pels Rijcken in detail during the debate and the question whether this organisation, this club, can still remain the national attorney. The Minister said: I will investigate this further, I will set up a committee and I will come up with an opinion. I ask the Minister at what time he thinks he can come up with his advice. And I would also urge him to take with him in that investigation that that committee is to do the worrying signals we are getting about the culture within the organisation. My group very much wonders whether Pels Rijcken can continue to play that role. But we will await the opinion if it does not take too long. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mr Ellian of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From this point on, I would also like to thank the Minister for the in-depth debate we had with each other on the position of Pels Rijcken. That was a sensible debate. Let's see what the minister comes up with. Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to ask about the position of the interpreters and the translators. I've seen three messages coming through in the last two weeks that scared the hell out of me. I'll paraphrase them briefly. An attorney, Mrs. Castermans, has no interpreter available at the arraignment. The rc says I can't judge what's going on with the suspect. After that, it appears that the detention will be extended. Then the absence of the interpreter has had a great influence. The second example has touched me very much. Advocate Stolk apparently assists the next of kin of a murdered father of two children. At last the substantive hearing is determined, and then the interpreter is apparently ill and fails to arrange a replacement interpreter. That's why that hearing is being moved to after the holidays. This happens while those next of kin naturally had to charge themselves tremendously for that hearing. That's extremely painful. Then the last example that the national media has achieved: the stabbing in Geleen. Suspects' remand is two weeks. The attorney didn't get a chance to speak to the defendant until after two weeks, because there was no interpreter available. If you're talking about a strong rule of law, such examples don't fit. I know that the Minister is really busy with the tenders and the new system, but I would like to ask him from this place to reflect on the three cases I name here. Can he reassure me that the rates will be fine and that anyone who needs an interpreter will have that interpreter available soon? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you to Mr Ellian. Mrs Palland, CDA, has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you, Mr President. In 2019/2020, a system review was launched around the interpreters and translators, as there were concerns about the quality of the use of interpreters and translators and the fees paid for them, which are too low. The question is whether the reform of the system has the intended effect. The Minister informed us of the first cautious positive results and promised to monitor them, including the professional organisations. A number of tenders have now been completed. We also read about the reservation that the information so far is limited and fragile and that the tariffs seem to rise slightly in the already completed tenders, but that is still a very cautious exploration. We also read that a number of calls for tenders have been withdrawn and that there are still a number of calls for tenders to be made next year. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in 2019/2020 a system review was launched on improving quality and pricing for deployment of interpreters and translators in legal procedures;]] [[whereas the initial results appear to be prudently positive, but are still limited and fragile and therefore do not yet give a direct indication of a large-scale improvement;]] [[Whereas several calls for tenders will continue to take place in 2022;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to point out to the contracting parties the possibilities for the objectives of the system review to be reflected in procurement, such as the award of quality above price and an appropriate (smaller) land classification;]] [[ensure in the implementation practice of the contracts awarded that C1 interpreters are primarily deployed and/or approached in relation to the organisations subject to WBTV before using B2 interpreters;]] [[explore with the professional representatives how, within the framework of the Competition Act and the Code of Conduct for sworn interpreters and translators, tariffs and conditions (collectively) can be negotiated between market parties individually or jointly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland, Mr Ellian, Mr Sneller and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-697]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u12	I don't understand this, because such a motion is already there. There is a motion by Mr van Dam/Groothuizen that also lays down all kinds of frameworks and conditions, but it has not prevented what is happening now, namely that the entire market is being destroyed and that C1 interpreters are not being used at all because they just call directly to the B2 interpreters. The rates are still from 1981 and 1963. People are paid by the minute instead of by the hour these days. Mrs Palland would do well to base herself not only on the Minister's information, but also on the letters from the order of interpreters and translators, who have distilled eight falsehoods from the Minister's one letter alone. Why does this motion not call for the Minister to make a decent rate available so that the mediators can properly reward the interpreters and translators? That is the essence of all this problem and of all the poignant examples that Mr Ellian has just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u13	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u14	A clear question from Mr Van Nispen. Of course, I did not just base myself on the Minister's letter, because otherwise I would not have made this speech and did not propose this motion. Of course, I also rely on the letters of the SIGV Co-operative and the Order of RTV, the Order of Registry interpreters and translators, etc. I have looked at the design of the tenders and taken note of the fact that the Commission has issued opinions from Procurement Experts and that tenders have been withdrawn on that basis. I also compare it a bit with the introduction of the Wmo, which was a long time ago, which led to calls for tenders at municipal level. Everyone struggled with that and watched how you can do that right. At that time, concrete hand-outs were written. That was not just the advice......................................................................................................................................................................................................... That was just a repetition of how the procurement rules work. There is a need to give concrete guidance on how this is being implemented so that we actually achieve the objectives we are aiming for with the reform of the system. For example, the Commission of Public Procurement Experts has given advice on the land classification, so that it becomes smaller and more parties are eligible for these contracts. That's the background to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr Van Nispen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u16	And how will this lead to higher rates if we do not tell the Minister that he has to pay more to properly reward those interpreters and translators? That's the problem, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u17	Sure. That is also part of the call for tenders. We say you have to steer on quality and not price. Then you must ensure that those C1 interpreters are deployed. That is what this motion calls for. The third part of the motion is to explore the position ofzzp'ers in the market, on which we also have a lot of discussion at SZW. Then it's said you can't make a fist with each other on the basis of the Competition Act. However, exceptions have also been made, taking into account the Competition Authority, to allow collective bargaining in certain cases. That is what this motion calls for. As far as I am concerned, this will have to lead to a stronger position and a real pricing for the interpreters and translators.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u18	Thank you, Mrs Palland. I'm gonna suspend for a few moments and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u19	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two subjects on which there are motions and questions. Those are the interpreters and translators and the state attorney. Let me start with the state attorney. Let me say that what the motion in part No. 695 by Mr Van Nispen, in order to stop the country's attorney for new cases, would be a very far-reaching measure, also for the simple reason that we are at risk of quality and continuity. Mr Van Nispen and your Chamber know, because I have written a comprehensive letter on this, that we now have a number of very great guarantees of compliance within the office. I will soon come up with a committee of a few experts, so is the objective, which is to see how this legal advice to the State, as well as other governments, should take shape in the future. I would very much like to give the motion judgment Chamber, provided I can read it in such a way that the cabinet will investigate a plan B, as advised by Ottervanger and Hoogenboom, two professors, without precluding a result. This is, of course, part of that. If I may read the motion in this way, I will give it without further ado Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u21	I don't have the motion in front of me yet, but I think it's also a speech-motion, so strictly speaking... is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u22	It says, "Request."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u23	Speaks and requests, okay. I will look at Mr Van Nispen and see if he can agree to the Minister's lines. Hard but forward. Then that motion along those lines gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u24	Difficult, difficult. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to Mrs Ellemeet's questions. I expect that opinion from that committee in the third quarter of 2022. I have to judge that a little bit, because that's going to run from the burglar photo or something from the new cabinet. Mrs Ellemeet also had a very fair question about culture. We talked about it at the beginning of November. The demands of the legal adviser or the lawyer in disputes for the State, of course, also include requirements for culture and diversity and other matters which also affect public procurement and contracting. In this respect, this will also be addressed in the question to the committee: what demands can you make and how should you shape them? I note, moreover, that, in accordance with the commitment I made in the committee debate, I have been in contact with the blanket and that, in my capacity as representative of the State as a client, I have said once again that I am confident that the enhanced supervision will continue, especially with regard to that culture. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll join the interpreters and translators.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr Sneller, on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u26	It's about Pels Rijcken. I apologise to Mr Van Nispen, because it is about his motion, but I want to understand what the Minister is saying. It is about the request to the government and therefore not about the speaking part, because that is up to the Chamber itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u27	That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u28	So that's not the part the minister says the judge gets Chamber? I'd like to check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u29	No. The "judgment chamber" really sees the request to the government. Again, a confirmation?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u30	Yeah, that's the request to the government. I cannot judge the ruling that is being requested from the Chamber. I can only say that I have also said that we are now going to ask a committee for its opinion. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Van Nispen's second motion. 696. This motion refers to indexing the rates of interpreters and translators. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. I share the view that register interpreters and translators play a crucial role in the rule of law. That is where Mr Van Nispen and I always find ourselves when we debate this. Good. There's a few parts in that motion. First of all, to raise the rates. That is precisely what was not chosen in the reform of the system. We discussed this extensively in the Chamber. Rates should be established in the negotiations with the intermediaries. This includes the other conditions under which an interpreter is willing to work for the intermediary. In last week's letter, I gave the first preliminary insights into the tenders that have been made. I said that the average fare to be paid is higher than the minimum from the Wtis. I'm following closely the additional data from the monitoring. From there, I would like to see whether further clarification of the rules on tariffs is desirable. In most government organisations............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The payment of an hourly interpreting service would result in the government paying in most cases time when no service has been provided. Then I would like to comment on the rate per word for a translator. When adapting the Wtis, which entered into force on 1 July 2020, it was precisely to convert the fee for translators from a standard rule to a fee per word, because it is very common in the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u31	I could say a great deal about the rates from 1981 and 1963, but we have had that debate and it is already late. I'll deal with something the minister said, something the practice is. Does the Minister know the current practice and the latest state of affairs? I don't think so, because he would never have given this answer. The latest state of affairs is that a change has taken place in the courts, which means that an interpreter who has come for nothing afterwards, for example because someone has not shown up, is paid for one minute. That's the practice now. Someone gets 70 cents or something. That doesn't make any sense anymore. It is also about respect for those interpreters and translators. I really hope the Minister will face that. Okay, my motion isn't gonna make it, but the coalition motion is gonna make it, of course. I can see that, but I hope that the Minister can at least make a commitment. Please try to do something and say, well, we'll round it up. Someone who has had to put his time in it and gets paid only one minute: that is not from this time. Then round it to one o'clock, so at least that one hour will be reimbursed. That's the least of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u32	I would like to combine this with my response to Mr Ellian, who asked for a reflection on the three cases. I had here that I would like to come up with a letter in the new year in which I will go into that and report on the progress of the calls for tenders. I admit that in that letter I will return to the substance of Mr Van Nispen's report. I honestly admit that is not known to me at the moment. So I come with a letter containing three elements. I would like to repeat them for the sake of convenience: the reflection on the three cases mentioned by Mr Ellian, the progress of the tenders and the point made by Mr Van Nispen that the courts apparently pay out minutes when the interpreter/translator should have translated has not shown up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u33	We're going to the motion in part no. 697.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 697 by Mrs Palland, Mr Ellian, Mr Sneller and Mrs Bikker. Oh, I see now that it has been written: "as to organisations subject to WBT." That's why I can give the motion room without further ado. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u35	The motion in part No. 697 gets judgment, Room. I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-16-tweedekamer-9.u36	I'll suspend for a few moments.
