ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u1	You've all had lunch. You're back in business. We're waiting for a letter. There isn't yet, if I'm properly informed. So I'll suspend... I'll take a look at the Secretary of State, who can undoubtedly say more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u2	That's right. That letter's coming. He's gonna be here any minute. Until there is, I could use the time to appreciate amendments. Then we could run into time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u3	Look, that's a proposal that makes me happy. That's how we're gonna do it. And then I'm gonna suspend for a little while, when the letter's in and people still have to read. It depends on the length of the letter. The Secretary of State, on the amendments submitted to the Social Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr President, thank you. I have an amendment to part No. 4 by Mr Omtzigt on the Communication Directorate. I reject this amendment, in line with the response given by the Minister of Finance to the AFP: the proposal does not fit in with the current missionary period, in which the cabinet is reluctant to make new proposals in the budget. This concerns permanent employees, which means that this reduction cannot be achieved in the short term. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 6 in place of Amendment No 6 to replace Amendment No 6 to replace Amendment No 6 to replace Amendment No 6 to replace Amendment No 6 to replace Amendment No 6 to replace Amendment No 6 to amend Amendment No 6 to replace Amendment No 6 to amend Amendment No 6 to replace Amendment No 6 to amend Amendment No 6 to replace Amendment No 6 to amend It is about releasing 1 million for the under stand, the AOV and the AWW to raise the social minimum in the BES islands. I must advise against this amendment. I understand the desire of GroenLinks and the PvdA to raise the level of support to 70% of the social minimum benchmark for a single person who lives independently. However, I must point out that the system of assistance in the Netherlands is not comparable to that in the Netherlands. Before the under stand can be increased to 70%, it is also necessary to adjust the design of the additional earning scheme. In the short term, an investigation will start. I don't want to anticipate the results of the investigation. I explained this in the written reply. So dissuade it. I shall now turn to the Witte amendment to item No. 12. In a motion, Wuite called for an increase in the statutory minimum wage and benefits as of 1 January. This has implications for SZW's budget. This amendment now provides for the financial resources for this. I would like to leave this amendment to the discretion of the Chamber. The amendment therefore concerns the 10% increase of a minimum benefit in the Caribbean Netherlands as of 1 January 2022. The amendment is in line with the Wuite motion adopted after the budget debate by the Kingdom's relations with almost universal support. In the meantime, I have already made the necessary preparations to allow for such an increase by 1 January 2022. That's good news for the islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mrs Maatoug, do you have a question on the amendment to item No. 12?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u6	Yes. In order to appreciate the amendment, I ask the Secretary of State if he can say anything about the coverage and the effects of the cover, because it comes from the IOAW.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u7	That's right; that's where it comes from. That was also the choice of the authors of the motion, so that is what we are doing. There's an effect, but I don't know exactly by heart. Of course, my papers state what the effect is, but you wonder what consequences that could have. As far as I can see now, they're pretty limited. I think it's about a few cents on the benefits. But I'll tell you so exactly in the second term. I'll write it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you for that. Then we go to the Amendment No. 23 by Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u9	Yes. This reserves €400,000 for a nationwide support point for single parents. On behalf of the Minister of OCW, the Minister of SZW earlier this year, also following the Van den Berge motion, held consultations with Single SuperMom on the desirability and feasibility of a digital nationwide 1parent point. A study of the feasibility and desirability of such a point will be launched shortly. The Court will be informed of the results of that investigation by mid 2022. This amendment anticipates the results of that study. In addition, the above-mentioned coverage has already been committed to the Foundation Together for the extension of the subsidy to combat child poverty. So I have to discourage this amendment. Then the Van Kent amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u10	In part No. 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u11	...in part No. 26 to replace that in part No 26 7. The aim is to adjust the entry threshold to the WIA from 35% to 15% of incapacity for work. I would advise against this amendment. The measure is expected to be only to a limited extent effective for workers with the lowest incomes. The WGA follow-up benefit is low for this group and therefore provides only limited security compared to the current safety net. This is not in itself feasible because it increases the existing mismatch between supply and demand in UWV's social-medical services. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u12	This isn't an interruption, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u13	No, don't worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u14	Just to be sure, the Chamber has adopted a motion stating that it should go to 15%. It asks the government to develop a number of scenarios for this. This amendment provides for a budget for 2022 so that, if one of these scenarios is chosen, it can also be financially achieved. If the Secretary of State says he does not think it should go to 15%, it does not do much in this sense, because the Chamber has already said that it wants to do so and has instructed the Secretary of State to draw up these scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u15	But this makes a choice. That's up to a missionary cabinet. Apart from that, the proposal states that the coverage for 2022 comes from the general budget. For structural costs, the proposal is to abolish the 30% scheme and the ETK scheme. That does indeed amount to 587 million, but that also requires a legislative amendment. The amendment does not provide for this. There is therefore also no coverage for structural costs. Apart from price-based appreciation, it is also a matter of implementation. In addition, it is simply a political choice. Mr Van Kent knows that, too. I must advise against this, but the Chamber is missionary and may all make statements about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr Van Kent, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u17	It's certainly a political choice. Politics has made a choice. The SP wants to avoid that if a scenario is chosen in which people are previously entitled to a WIA benefit, there will be no budget, no money for it in 2022. Of course, we can think longer about structural funding, which is not yet on the agenda of this budget. But at least we want there to be room next year for that political wish to become a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u18	I understand that political wish, but I'm not going to pass judgment. That motion called for scenarios to be worked out, and I believe that we have complied with them. It is now a question of further implementation. That goes one step further than the cabinet can do. Of course, the Chamber can make a choice in those scenarios, but I am not going to interfere with a judgment. That is why I must discourage the amendment from the outgoing cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u19	We shall then proceed with another amendment tabled by Mr Van Kent, the amendment to item No. 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u20	Yes, the amendment to item No. 27, in place of Amendment No 27, to replace Amendment No 27, to replace Amendment No 27, to replace Amendment No 27, to replace Amendment No 27, to replace Amendment No 27, to replace Amendment No 27, to replace The proposal amends SZW's budget for 2022 in order to regulate budgetary resources to reverse the reduction in assistance as of 1 July. The proposal does not fit in with the current missionary period, in which the cabinet is reluctant to make new proposals for the budget. In doing so, the phasing-out helps make it more rewarding to start working from a benefit. The introduction is not possible in the short term and there is still a lot to be seen on coverage. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u21	That was the amendment in part No. 27. I should like to make a few comments on this point. 28.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u22	Yes, that also belongs to Mr Van Kent, in place of the Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 9. It amends the budget to reserve the budget for the abolition of the cost sharing standard in the following social laws: the Participation Act, the general assistance to the AOW age, the AIO, the bbz, the IOAW, the IOAZ, the Anw and the TW. This proposal, similar to the previous appreciation, does not fit in with the present outgoing cabinet. That doesn't surprise Van Kent. Moreover, the Court has also declared the exploration of this issue controversial. We've done that reconnaissance, and we're now waiting for a direction from the Chamber for that reconnaissance. If we finally take a decision on this, we will have to do so with proper cover. That is why I also advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u23	But if the cost sharing standard is abolished, then the Chamber may feel free to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u24	Yeah, but I'm not the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u25	The Secretary of State isn't about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u26	But he wouldn't have to discourage the amendment, would he? The cabinet is outgoing and the Chamber has a certain opinion. Then it wouldn't be appropriate for the Secretary of State to advise against this amendment, would it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u27	I have several reasons, but the coverage for 2022 is also missing. The coverage of structural costs is found on the revenue side, by introducing a service tax. That is not in line with the budgetary rules. Moreover, the OECD Inclusive Framework has agreed that countries should not introduce digital service taxes or similar charges for all companies. That is why I reject this amendment. Finally, it is an undesigned tax law, which makes it impossible at all to achieve this by 1 January 2023. Therefore, there is no proper cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u28	Could another cover be able to follow the judgment of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u29	That's a like-dan question. I had to think about it, but I learned that we're not answering that. If there is another amendment, we are going to look at it again at that time and you will receive an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u30	Finally, there is one more amendment. Mrs Maatoug, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u31	We always do a good job with it to be able to weigh it well as a fraction. So in conclusion, the amendment itself is not the problem, but only coverage is the problem. That's what I heard in the appreciation just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u32	No, I made two comments. The proposal does not fit in with the current missionary period, in which the cabinet is reluctant to make new proposals for the budget. Mr Van Kent says: if it is up to the Chamber, it is up to the Chamber. Sure. But this is one reason why we say: dissuade. In addition, an exploration of alternatives has been carried out. It has been declared controversial by the Chamber itself. There is also a lack of proper cover. For these three reasons, therefore, I have come to dissuade you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u33	There is also the amendment to item No. 32 of Mr Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u34	Yes. This is about the multiannual plan for the preventive approach to self-determination. This aims to free structural funds from 2022 that benefit one or more organisations fighting for self-determination and against cultural oppression. This amendment is left to the discretion of the Chamber. We are also very concerned about the harmful practices that Mrs Becker is talking about, such as marriage coercion, abandonment or honour-related violence. I find these practices unacceptable and they do not belong in the Netherlands. That is why I agree with the thrust of the amendment to fight for self-determination and against cultural oppression.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u35	Thank you for the appreciation of the amendments to this budget. I understand that the letter requested by the Chamber is in. At the moment it is also distributed to members in paper form. I would like to suspend briefly so that this letter can be read. Then we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u36	I hope my colleagues have read the letter that has just been sent. I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State on the issue of purchasing power and inflation. But not until after Mr De Jong has made a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u37	The Secretary of State sent a letter of shit to the Chamber. We have asked for a purchasing power recovery plan to ensure that purchasing power is restored in view of the expected increase in inflation of almost 6%. All these September purchasing power promises seem to be worth nothing at all. They must be minimally restored, so they must be reduced to the promise contained in the budget. Why didn't the Secretary of State send us that? It's a letter in which he says, "We're not doing anything." Okay, well, that might be an answer, but we're not helping people at home. So I wonder what the cabinet's up to. I also wonder how the VVD will accept that, because it is for a large part also about the supporters of the VVD. The VVD itself said the day before yesterday that it was prepared to look at compensation. A coalition party should also stand on its backs and ask what the hell this secretary of state is doing. So once again, we ask this Secretary of State to explain why he is not doing anything and to propose to us as a Chamber how he is going to restore that 6% increase in inflation to ensure that people at home do not have to go down hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u38	Before I give the floor to Mr Van Kent and Mr Omtzigt, I wondered if it would not be wiser to have the Secretary of State explain his letter first, so that you could keep your interruptions until after his explanation. Otherwise, they're expensive interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u39	There's not much to add, because I see the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr Van Kent, Mr De Jong has just noticed that. I would like the Secretary of State to explain this, because he has indicated that he still has a lot to say about it. Maybe we should give him that chance first. Then you then have time to make all the interruptions to him...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u41	If the Secretary of State has anything to add, he should send another letter, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mr. Van Kent, I didn't give you the floor. I would suggest that the Secretary of State should first give an explanation. If it is not to your liking, then you can ask questions. That seems to me to be both more efficient and better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u43	I actually asked for a letter on purchasing power in 2022. The only figures in the letter are about 2021. We are dealing with the 2022 budget and are very concerned about it. We would like to have an image of what I would actually have expected of today's very uncertain... I understand the Secretary of State says he can't predict the gas price. If he can do that, he's gonna have to work on the stock market as an analyst. We want to have an idea of this and we want to know what is being done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u44	That is what we are going to give, and I hope that the Secretary of State will also be able to explain that picture for 2022 in his reply. Go ahead, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mr. Chairman. The most important thing I have to say is, of course, all in the letter, but I am nevertheless explaining it. Mr Van Kent, I am going to introduce this and then answer your questions, because in the end it is the purpose of the debate that we are trying to get an answer to that. I'm ready for that, so I'm gonna do my best. Then you may then consider whether it is enough. Mr. Chairman. What did the Cabinet do? The most important thing explained in the letter is that rising energy prices are the main cause of inflation. Shortly after Prince's Day, we saw those prices rise. During the General Political Reviews, your Chamber therefore cleared 500 million by means of the Hermans motion to reduce the energy tax. However, we soon saw that this would not be enough by far. At that time, your Chamber also asked Mr Nijboer, I believe, to make up for half of the expected increase. In October we expected an increase of around €800 to €850 for a household with average consumption. We have decided to reduce the energy tax, so that about half will be compensated. All this happened after Princess Day and after the General Political Reviews. Given what the cabinet said about the modest role due to missionary status, that 3.2 billion in that sense is, of course, exceptional, but certainly justified. For a price increase of more than 40% is of course not payable for many households. At present, we expect the price increase from €800 to €850 on average to continue. It's the same. So our expectations were not adjusted compared to October when we decided to reduce the energy tax by 3.2 billion. This tax reduction will start on 1 January. Not all energy suppliers have yet responded to this. It is also the case that the purchasing power for 2022 includes a number of elements, the Herman motion elements, including the general tax rebate to compensate for the higher care premium, the adjustment of primary education salaries and the structural reduction of the energy tax. Those elements have not yet been incorporated into the pictures. That's a reservation on those pictures. Another reservation has already been made by Mr Omtzigt, namely that the uncertainty is very high. There are all kinds of expectations. I also saw in the newspaper this morning that all kinds of economists were talking about this. Yes, I don't have a glass ball, so I can't give a prediction for that. I think it is important to mention a number of concerns, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u46	Before you do that...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u47	No, no, I'd really like to do that, if you don't mind. Because this is important. I think there has been a misconception in how the Chamber has...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u48	The point here is that Mr Van Kent wants to make the point that this is an explanation of the letter, but that no new elements are introduced from the side of the Secretary of State. That's what he's trying to say. Mr. Van Kent, this is your fourth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u49	We read the letter. We read the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u50	Yes. The Secretary of State once again explains this letter orally, as is the case in a debate. Because the people who are listening to this debate may not have read that letter. It is therefore not surprising that this letter should be explained in the course of a budget debate. I understand that you are waiting for additional elements from the Secretary of State, but then perhaps we should wait a little further for his response. Then you'll have plenty of room to ask questions about that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u51	Those provisional figures became known. That is a European figure. The rate of inflation in November is likely to be 5.6%. I understand very well that there are a lot of questions about the purchasing power plates. It is especially important, not only for the people who have read the letter, but also for the people who are watching this debate, what this means for ordinary Dutch people. What does it mean for your energy bill or to ask if you can afford your groceries? Those concerns, including those of the Chamber, I understand very well. An inflation rate of 5.6% is the highest in nearly 40 years. But we also need to look at the causes. I mentioned it. The increase in energy prices, by 42.7%, is, to a very large extent, the reason for this. Just for the record, the price for groceries has risen by 1.4%. If we know this, it is still very difficult to make statements about the impact on individual households, because one simply consumes more energy than the other. The energy component is so large in this picture. That's a disclaimer I really have to make out of this role. This is without prejudice to the fact that it is a serious problem for all households facing this situation to face a more expensive bill and have more expensive messages when they arrive at the cash register. The cabinet has an eye for this, especially when it comes to households that already do not have a lot of financial space. I'll say something about that in a minute. The last time the purchasing power figures were calculated was indeed with Princess Day, as Mr Omtzigt said. The CPB then estimated inflation to increase by 1.9% in 2021 and by 1.8% in 2022. That's a weird thing to do with the 5.6%. I can imagine. That is why it is good to clarify, and here I attach particular importance to the fact that the inflation rate is 5.6% compared to last November. This means that the average price in November is 5.6% higher than in November last year. But in purchasing power figures, we use the average price increase over a whole year. It is lower than 5.6% throughout 2021, because the price increase was not so strong all year round. If inflation in December, as in November, reaches 5.6%, inflation will reach 2.7% throughout 2021. Mr Omtzig asked in his written questions what an inflation of 3.4% would mean. Then there will indeed be a substantial loss of purchasing power. Only, that's an extremely unlikely scenario. That's what we wrote in the letter. If we want to achieve an average inflation rate of 3.4% in this year, inflation should be 14% in December. We don't think that's likely right now. But in 2022 that inflation is likely to be higher than was estimated at Princess Day. I understand that point. That same uncertainty and that struggle I have. How are we going to anticipate that? I get that question. It is only too early to predict exactly how inflation and purchasing power will develop next year, on the one hand because experts believe that the situation on the gas market is exceptional and possibly temporary, which will bring prices down again in the course of 2022. In addition, the corona pandemic will affect the prices of certain products. You saw that demand increased again more than the supply. I refer to ships that cross in China and sub-contractors that could not obtain products. It is therefore important to see in the next estimate the effects of inflation on purchasing power. They'll be here in March. I hear you think: "Good, these purchasing power cards, but people are not, of course, faced with an average price increase. It's about the price increase they're experiencing right now. People walk through the grocery store and find out at the cash register that the groceries have become more expensive, while they already have to deal with a higher gas bill." That's what I hear in my neighborhood. That sucks. That's what you expect a solution for. I get those questions. As I said at the beginning, as a cabinet, even if it was outgoing, it was precisely for this reason that we said that a price increase of more than 40% is simply not payable for many households. We have committed 3.2 billion. This reduction compensates for about half of the price increase for a household. This reduction will take effect on 1 January. The effect is therefore not yet fully visible in these inflation rates. That may not come until January. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would also like to say that this 3.2 billion reduction does not automatically mean that the households most affected will also be best helped. Therefore, there was a clear call from your Chamber to see if we can help with very targeted households who need our help most. Your room hasn't seen that yet; that's right. I'm talking about adding additional compensation specifically for those groups, so people with welfare benefits and people who work but don't make much money. As promised in the letter from the Secretary of State for Finance and EZK on the adjustment of the package, I will inform you of these plans before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u52	That is the way you explained it. I'm looking at the members. I shall first give the floor to Mr Van Kent, then to Mr De Jong and then to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u53	I haven't heard anything new. What matters is that the people who work see their income evaporated by the highest inflation in 40 years. The number of billionaires and millionaires is increasing, but this government is coming up with a letter that says nothing. Nothing! The government has nothing to offer against this enormous fall in purchasing power that people see coming at themselves. What is perhaps one percent more or one percent less here is for the people at home: can I still pay the rent, my care, the groceries, can I still buy good food? That's what people at home are about. This secretary of state is telling us a little bit about this. He gives a summary of a letter that doesn't contain anything. The question I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State is: how much is the government prepared to raise the minimum wage on 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u54	I have also mentioned the concerns raised by Mr Van Kent. We have the same concerns. Your conclusion is that nothing happens. I understand it can always be more, especially from your point of view, but I don't like 3.2 billion. It's not nothing. If we are talking to municipalities to create extra opportunities for people with the lowest incomes, extra financial space, then that is not nothing. Then you take this problem seriously, without us having a glass ball. But at least we've seen that rise is a big one, and then you have to do something. We did. The effects of the Herman motion, which we have seen in the General Political Reviews, are therefore not yet in these figures either. Those numbers just got here. Next week will be the Dutch figure. I'm sure it won't be far apart. That's what the purchasing power cards are based on. I hate the pictures and the box plots, but if they take a walk, I must also tell people that it is a very high figure in November, but measures have already been taken in August for purchasing power as compared to 5%. But we need to prepare for a possible higher inflation. That's my concern too: what does that ask? That is why I also looked at whether the energy bill was substantially higher than it was when we took this decision. That doesn't seem to be the case. It seems to be similar. We anticipated that, even at the request of the Chamber. That way, we help people deal with this as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mr. Van Kent, this is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u56	I just had three more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u57	Then I'll take a look at the clerk, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u58	The question here is whether people will be able to pay their messages or their energy bills. Then it is not helpful to examine whether there is a possibility of supplying the poorest through municipalities. That is not the solution for the large group involved. The solution is higher wages and the associated higher benefits. The question I asked the Secretary of State was: how much is this cabinet prepared to raise the minimum wage? Because if the cabinet doesn't, then the VVD cabinet deliberately chooses to choke people into poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u59	All words and then a pretty big reproach. It doesn't make sense in my mind if you say: people are worried if they can still pay the energy bill, but if you are going to compensate through the energy tax, so you're going to limit money for people, that's not going to help people, because we just have to look at the minimum wage. But of course it's not. We're just gonna help people with that energy bill, because that's what they're worried about. So I'd rather the cabinet do something about that than it'd just be working on the minimum wage. Well, the Cabinet's doing something about that. And to your question about that minimum wage, the following. This has been mentioned a great many times in the Chamber. That is undoubtedly also on the formation table. As I said in the collectible law, it takes a lot to change the law if you do that. Suppose you can get through that very quickly, then it is still the question whether it will work in the implementation. In addition, it is also a budgetary question whether your Chamber could agree on this. Then I'd rather just have a concrete amount of money to help concrete people with concrete accounts that are really bothering these people right away than to get into the air with some kind of bird in the sense of: and then everything is resolved. The latter is not, and you know it. We also need to do this in a way that works for people. Now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u60	Mr. Van Kent. Oh, you're saving your interruption. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u61	I hear the Secretary of State say that he is struggling, that he has tried a lot of things and that the cabinet has done a fantastic job because the increase in energy has been compensated a bit. But I can tell him that ordinary people, hardworking people, with that compensation from you, are just going to pay €60 more per month in energy than they are doing now. On top of that, they see this huge increase in inflation and, even though they have already had a hard time, no money is being made available again to compensate adequately. It can't be explained that you can give billions away to climate, mass immigration and Brussels, but that you can't just bring forward a compensation package for our own people, for our own hard-working people. You say that raising the minimum wage is not enough. No, but we're asking for a package, right? It's not just the minimum wage that needs to be raised, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u62	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u63	It's about the rents and all the other things that people can't afford, isn't it? For example, their messages are becoming even more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u64	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u65	So my question is: how does this VVD Secretary of State explain that if he does not come up with compensation today, he will abandon his own people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u66	There is a higher, much higher energy bill for a lot of people. That is the main reason why inflation is rising. The cabinet has seen this after the General Political Reviews. Actually, we saw that back then. In part, we spent money on it and, in part, we saw that that would simply be too little. The cabinet comes with the package you mention, namely 3.2 billion for precisely those households you mention. You don't have to be a fan of the cabinet but say it doesn't do anything, I think it goes far. If it's not enough, it's okay. I mean, I can imagine in many ways that we still have to look very closely at how things are going to work out for next year. That seems to me to be very important, especially with these figures, because they are alarming enough. But the fact is that there will be compensation for the people in terms of the energy bill. The fact is that we offer extra help to low-income people. That's what we're working out with the municipalities. That's what we owe those people. We're gonna have to do that soon. I'm also gonna say we're gonna do that soon. But saying nothing's going to happen doesn't make any sense. Call it a package or don't call it a package, that's all fine with me, as long as we help people with that energy bill. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u67	It takes so much more. The people at home see on paper that, for example, their energy bill has increased by €120. This is now said to be €60. Then it still rises by €60. For people at home who haven't been able to make it, that's €60 too much. Today we have the conclusion that there is a huge inflation coming up, and then this Secretary of State sends a letter with, indeed, nothing. Nor can the Secretary of State deny that, because he comes up with nothing to compensate for that. So again, why do you spend money on mass immigration, on climate and on Brussels? The billions are gonna blow your brains out. But when it comes to our own people, he abandons them as hard as he can. Why do you do that? If you do not come up with a compensation package today with all the fine words you have, then as Secretary of State to all those hard-working people you are not worth the slap in the face. Because they go backwards and you don't compensate them. That's a hell of a scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u68	It's not good for people to say good words. That's right, I'd like to repeat that to Mr Léon de Jong. That's why they need support in that energy bill. That's what the cabinet package is for, 3.2 billion. On top of that, we are going to help people with low incomes who are having a hard time, who may be in the welfare sector, extra help, extra help. Don't call that a thing. I think that this is more useful to people than this debate here on the interrupting microphone. We must also help people with the specific energy bill to pay in concrete terms. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u69	The misery was that when the budget was made everyone was put on the line, because it was actually a very bad budget. There was also the increase in energy prices and inflation. That's gonna bring everyone down below zero. I'll let the Secretary of State know that the energy bill is really being dealt with. The PvdA Group would have liked to see it reduced differently, 3 billion is not nothing and people are going to notice it. But at the same time, when you get to the gas station, and when you have to pay your rent, you get sick of the prices. People my age are 38 years old and I'm now paying 30, 40% of their net income in rent. If you see the rents, it's just gonna be more. Groceries are getting more expensive. It's just a bummer, these numbers, the Secretary of State said. Then the question to the Secretary of State is: shouldn't you be doing something more than you had done? The answer from the PvdA is yes. On minimum wage, on compensation, perhaps on tax measures, if the VVD also wants to have a share. 'Cause you can't actually come up with this, can you? Negative income effects for the whole of the Netherlands and pensioners who are not indexed, as Minister for Social Affairs, can we not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u70	I share that concern with Mr Nijboer, as I have just said. So we reduce the energy tax significantly, we work together with municipalities on a common solution for those lowest incomes. And yet it remains uncertain that I see very well how inflation is going to develop in the coming months. Hopefully, energy prices are going to fall soon, but no one has that guarantee. I don't have any. It is also unsatisfactory to me. I also think that you can expect us to look at how we can get more ground under our feet and more insight into the development of prices and opportunities, including for people to wear them in a moment. We said at the time: we have to keep our finger on the wrist. I think we should take that finger again now to see what the impact we can predict now, as far as we can predict; again, not quite. What is it before 2022 and what does it ask? By the way, I don't know what's coming out of a new cabinet in a minute. But I suppose they read the news as well and give reason to jump in on it. But at the same time it is uncertain in that sense, and you will not deny it. But that firm ground under the feet to be able to better estimate what it will do in the coming months; I share that with you. I think we should get that insight, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u71	In the future, of course, you will never know exactly what is happening, but it is very likely that everyone will lose their net purchasing power next year. All groups of benefit recipients, people who work, pensioners, everyone, while there is an enormous amount of money and choices can be made. Part of the cabinet did the same with the energy bill. So choices can be made to do something about it. I ask this Secretary of State not to wait for the formation and to keep a little finger on wrists next year, but to do something about it. We will vote on the budget next week, otherwise the Chamber will have to do it. I hope the VVD will give a bit of home, because it offered openings on Tuesday. Then we have to amend it ourselves. But it often gets ugly when, at the last minute, there are still billions to be thrown by parliament. If there's a majority in favour of that, is the Secretary of State going to push for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mr Nijboer mentions the choices. Of course, they're choices. It is the choices made by the General Political Reviews. Choices have now been made for the teacher's salaries, for the care premium, for the energy. You have made the appeal yourself. So those are choices that have been made. After that, more choices were made to meet this. The next step is: what choices do we have to make now and can we also link that to something of an expectation of how that will work out in the coming months? That's what I'm looking for. I want that too. At the same time, we know that in today's purchasing power figures, there you have the floor again, President-in-Office of the Council, the motion for a resolution of the General Political Reviews is not involved. The energy tax reduction is therefore not yet in place. Of course, we do not yet know how December is going to work out. For the same reason, we are going to have a very high inflation rate. It has to be 14% if we are to achieve the average inflation rate of 3.4% that Pieter Ommzigt talked about, but who knows. If that's 5.6%, like in November, you're going to be 2.7%. That is indeed higher than the 1.9% we had; that is correct. On the other hand, the reduction of the energy tax from the motion has not yet been incorporated into the General Political Reviews. We need to put that together in order to get a good picture of it, coupled with the expectations of the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u73	This is, of course, the perfect moment when you want that image put together. This is the budget for 2022 of the Department of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u74	Locked, you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u75	Leged.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u76	Leaked together, that's possible!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u77	No, I do travel by train between Amersfoort and The Hague, but I can't get those pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u78	I'm sorry. I heard that sincerely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u79	Be careful not to toss your coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u80	I'll stick with Coke.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u81	That's even dirtier in your suit. But this is the moment you want to look, with all the uncertainties that there are. These uncertainties are greater than in other years. That is perfectly clear. But if we ask for an update, there will be an update about 2021, while we are of course interested here in 2022. Let me give it a shot myself. The statutory minimum wage will increase by €24 on 1 January. The average energy bill for a reasonably well insulated house increases by €28. That includes the reduction of taxes. That is what the big companies have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u82	We don't know that for sure, but yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u83	The advances to be paid go up by €28, while the whole minimum wage increases by €24. The welfare allowance is rising by much less. A number of people therefore need the whole increase in income as of 1 January to pay the energy bill and are already failing. So I am not talking about the increase in petrol prices, which Mr Nijboer from Groningen is right to complain about. That doesn't mean we're talking about the groceries. That's an increase of 1.4%. We are not talking about the other goods, which are currently 2.4% more expensive; that is considerably higher than expected. We see that for next year all the groups, including in the government's pictures, will be below zero. This is also due to government policy, for example, the government has indexed all the tax-free amounts and all the things that make your income rise a little bit, by 1.3%, because that seemed reasonable in the Tax Plan. So you have 5.6% inflation...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u84	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u85	... and all things like tax rebates are increased by 1.3%. Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u86	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u87	Is the government prepared to come up with a purchasing power package to achieve what the Minister of SZW said and expected at Prinsjesdag, and also expected in fairness? We don't want any major changes in purchasing power. That's up to the new cabinet. That's perfectly clear. That is why we have opted for a relatively neutral package. There's no neutral package coming out. Is the government prepared to make a package that will have a neutral pattern of expectations next year: everyone around the zero line, but no major progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u88	There are a lot of questions in Mr Omtzigt's speech, so I am trying to give a good answer, and I will stick to that 5.6%, because that is what Mr Omtzigt is using. So that's about the month of November. If it is 5,6% in December, it will be 2,7% in 2021. If you ask us to take a look at what that is 3.4%, we will give you a nice graph, but that does not mean that it is likely to happen. That's important. The next step is: what can we say about 2022? That's what I care about. I'll get to that in a minute, because I'm looking for what we could do to get that at least more insightful. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Omtzigt's other question is: say, you have a low income, a minimum wage, and that only goes up in part. This also affects people with benefits. The benefit will then rise with the minimum wage. That's gonna be a big euro in a minute. What does that mean, what if it's $28? That depends incredibly much on how you live, how high the bill is, et cetera. There's a lot to be done about that, but let's take that as a calculation. Then it is important to me that this is my concern and I also think Mr Omtzigt's concern how we prevent people who are already struggling, who have a low income or are in benefits from sinking through the ice. With the mandate of the Chamber, we now give effect to this question with municipalities. I can imagine that it will become a generic benefit in the assistance or an ex-officio category benefit, which is what we are working on right now. We are looking at how we can get it to those groups as targeted as possible. I cannot imagine the amount of less than €200 that we will have to give extra to those groups. That's also necessary if I'm going to follow your calculations. Undoubtedly you hope to be able to deliver some more to one of them wherever it is needed, and to the other less if it is less necessary. But we're doing that exercise now. In any case, I would like to share this with your Chamber very quickly, at least for the debate on poverty and debt in mid-December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u89	Mr. Omtzigt. May I ask you to keep your interruption a little shorter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u90	I understand that question, Mr. Chairman. We have now come to the conclusion that we are only looking at welfare recipients, but I was talking about people who deserve the minimum wage. Those are the people who are going to clean at Schiphol Airport or here in the Lower House at 6:00 in the morning. Those are the people who are irregular alpha help. They get zero compensation with what is now being proposed. They're gonna go backwards from January 1st. We have the lowest minimum wage in our neighbouring countries. It goes to €12 in Germany. Here we keep it at €9.96. We constantly talk about whether the picture is right about 2021 or not. That's not so interesting anymore, because we're not gonna fix anything before 2021. That's over. Then you can have a little bad luck, a little luck. That's how it goes. We're talking about 2022. If inflation continues to be 4%, gas prices are falling and everything is not that bad, then that is much more than the 1.8% we expected. Then we're all still at -2%. That's not a problem on a salary from a secretary of state or a member of parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u91	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u92	Are you prepared to come up with a package so that it is expected to reach about 0%, because this is the time, this is the budget...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u94	... so that people with AOW or WIA benefit from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u95	I thank Mr Omtzigt, because it is an issue. He's asked questions about that, and we're changing it here now. A lot of people are worried about that, so am I, and so are you. And indeed not so much for my salary, certainly not. Not at all. But it is for all those people who already have a low income. You're right. Those aren't just people in welfare. You're right about that. I am also looking when I hear Mr Omtzigt talking about the minimum standard of living. At his request, we set up a committee to investigate the social minimum, precisely because of the reasons Mr Omtzigt mentions, because we want to see how much money different groups of people need to make ends meet. What we can do is actually one step... I understand what Mr. Omtzig wants. He wants a package that reaches 0%, and what does that mean? For several reasons, both uncertainty and missionary and the energy bill that we are monitoring, I find it very difficult to know now what exactly is needed. I find that truly difficult. In order to get a better idea of this, I would like to look at Mr Omtzigt, for example, we can explicitly put that question to that committee. Then we get a picture of them as well of the price shocks we see. Then we also see which buffer is needed for this, if you are indeed doing a great deal to get by and that becomes more and more difficult. It could be. Then you also link it to the way in which we look at the minimum standard of living at all, to the minimum wage and also to the benefits associated with it. But then you add an urgent question to them. First, I'm looking for a step, for information on which you could base your choices. I think that will then also help a new cabinet to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr. Omtzigt. This is your last interruption. I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u97	Thank you for that committee and that it will be properly paid in, but we are now determining the benefits. We are now setting the percentages for supplements. We are now establishing everything for 2022. If we now ask for an opinion, we will not be able to change it, because these things will not be changed by 1 February. You must now put down to your best ability a package that you think is about fair to the rest of the Netherlands for 2022, with all the uncertainties. Therefore, again, my question: is the government prepared to come up with a package to reach about 0% increase in purchasing power, so no policy? Then in the coming year we can quietly see what is best for the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u98	What I said about the social minimum is one way I think we can do justice to that question. Mr Omtzigt says that this is not going to help. We don't have to ask that committee, do we? I'm just trying to figure out how we're gonna get that solid ground. I also understand why you're saying that I don't need any more information. I'd rather we overcompensate. That's all fine. We have made a comparison, which is important, with the choice at that time for the energy bill and how this energy bill is now going to work out. That image is equal to the moment we came up with this package. This is without prejudice to the fact that, of course, we also see the effects of that package in inflation, because products are becoming more expensive. This has to do with energy prices, also with the pump. That's obvious. This is now reflected in the inflation rate of 5.6%. We have partly responded to this, partly anticipated in order to make the best possible package. We're about to add something to that for low incomes. I would add that we will have it looked at again, for example by that committee, but I can also ask experts. I could ask the CPB. Suggestions are welcome. Then we have an even finer image. Because the next reconnaissance won't be back until March. In the meantime, we also need an image. I also need that image to be able to answer the question of what is then needed on the basis of that image. I can well imagine that this is also useful information for the cabinet. So I'm looking for a way we could do that. If Mr Omtzigt has any suggestions for this, I would therefore like to hear them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u99	In the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u100	Second term, yes. Mrs Maatoug and then Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u101	We have heard the word'meaning' come to our attention a few times in the debate today. When I was watching the interrupting debate and I read the letter, I was reminded of the people whose alarm clock went at 05.00 this morning, because they had to clean all day or go on their way to work. They have already decided that there will be no sintering-class presents at all this year, because there is no money for that. They're already wearing three warm sweaters. They don't know how to get to work, because the price of petrol is too high, as the Secretary of State says very well. My question is this. I get all this. I also think that we are seeing a complex situation worldwide. What we see here is historical. That's what the Secretary of State says. I come to my question, Mr President. We need to debate these long-term averages. That's what we're gonna find out. But the question that touches on the purpose of this debate is: what do we say to those people, who are already unable to make ends meet today and who do not know what to do? They already had a hole and soon have an even bigger hole, in this historic situation. My question is: what does the Secretary of State say to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u102	To those people, we say very specifically that on average we are compensating for half of the average energy bill. Specifically for this group, which is sinking through the ice, or already under the ice in the economic sense, we are developing concrete measures with municipalities. I have just mentioned a number of options: category assistance and special assistance. I would like to make the most of this. Then I think we are looking at an amount of around €200, or perhaps more, for this group of people to be added. I think that's wise and good. The encouragement to come up with that soon, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u103	A point of clarification. I think that's right. It's a search. I see the Secretary of State looking for that, too. Measures are being taken. We must indeed look ahead to 2022, despite all the uncertainties that exist. generic measures are being taken to meet everyone. Targeted measures are also being taken. In order for that to land, the Secretary of State also brings a letter to the Chamber stating how that is possible. Just the question was: are we talking about assistance, or is it broader than that? Of course, it affects several people on low incomes, not just the welfare recipients. In my view, this was also the quintessence of the motion that has been tabled: to see how you can make it land as targeted as possible in low-income households, so wider than in the welfare sector alone. Is the Secretary of State going to say in his letter that he is going to look at the possibilities we have to meet the broader target group than just the welfare recipients?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u104	Yes, we are. I would add that the reason why we have not yet come to the Chamber is that it is complicated. That has to do with the execution. Municipalities also find it rather spicy to re-implement a specific scheme here, after all these aid packages. They have a preference for a generic scheme. If you do that very generically, you'll come up with rent and care allowance. Then you're talking about too small amounts again and it's too unfocused. You could come up with a generic amount. That's what we're looking at. But that is preferably linked, of course, to a low income and not, by definition, to a benefit. I'm just bound by what's possible. So I'm making arrangements with the municipalities. I hope that we can do so as specifically as possible, because then we can also spend the amount as specifically as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u105	There is a very good generic measure and opportunity to do something about that income. Let's be honest with each other. I mean, we all know that wages in the Netherlands are too low. We know that the minimum wage is not sufficient to live well and that the benefits linked to it are certainly not. So I honestly do not understand why this Secretary of State is not prepared to look at that very clear instrument, namely raising the minimum wage, because that is what the government is about. This also automatically increases benefits. Then other wages in the market sector also rise, CBS has shown. Why doesn't the Secretary of State want to deal with that and keep getting bogged down in "we're gonna investigate," "we're gonna look" and "it's complicated"? Surely there is a fairly clear solution, for which there is also much support in this House of Representatives? ABN Amro also said yesterday that a big step in the minimum wage would be good and that the economy could handle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u106	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u107	My question is: why does this Secretary of State not see that? Why does the Secretary of State look away from that and leave people in the lurch?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u108	The first priority of the cabinet is to compensate people with high energy bills as quickly as possible. That's what we've been looking for. That's how we got on the taxes. Then you look at what you're doing for people for whom that's really too little, and that's as soon as possible. I just promised we'd take that to the Chamber, too. We're working on it. We're still working on the execution. Mr Van Kent mentions the minimum wage. The cabinet has certainly looked at this in recent years, has always looked at it. It has also made all kinds of preparations for it. But about how you do that, the Chamber disagrees. It's on a formation table. Apart from that, if you wanted to do this, it would require a change of law. That's one. It requires something from the execution. That's two. We also need them to get money from these households quickly. It is also a political choice that lies in the formation and on top of that budget. So we might be spending a lot of money on something that doesn't go into January 1st, but maybe 18 months later, according to what we think is going to take time to complete this whole legislative amendment. Of course, that's sand in people's eyes too. We have to intervene now. That's what this cabinet does. That doesn't mean that the minimum wage is off the table. In fact, I think it's on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u109	I know that Mr Van Kent would like to ask a lot of questions, but he too is at his six interruptions. I would like to continue with the second term, with your agreement. I'm gonna check on the Secretary of State. It had come to the end of his speech. Then we shall continue with the second term of this budget debate. Can everyone go through in one go? "Yeah," I hear. I would like to give the floor to Mr Léon de Jong of the PVV. Are you ready? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u110	Mr President, thank you very much. It is extremely disappointing that the cabinet does not come up with a purchasing power recovery package. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the extremely high inflation expectations of 5.6% have once again allowed the purchasing power promised in September to evaporate;]] [[Whereas the absence of real purchasing power improvements has made it possible for millions of Dutch people to survive even more difficult or not at all;]] [[Whereas a purchasing power recovery package is urgently needed;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the increase in VAT on groceries, reduce rents and eliminate its own risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Léon de Jong.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u111	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that pension indexing takes place in 2022 for all pensioners and pension participants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Léon de Jong.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u112	Mr. Chairman. Pension funds should be involved in the proper management of pensions. But these days they are mainly concerned with climate policy. A huge low point has been reached, namely the appointment, or future appointment, of Paul Rosenmöller at ABP. I don't think we should do that. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all appearances of conflicts of interest should be avoided when joining the board of a pension fund;]] [[noting that pension funds have the task of adequately managing pension funds for their members and achieving maximum returns;]] [[whereas pension funds should not be involved in climate policy;]] [[Whereas the successful demonisation of Pim Fortuyn towards 6 May 2002 should not be rewarded;]] [[Calls on the Government of DNB to actively counter any appearance of conflict of interest and therefore to reject the appointment of an active member of the First Chamber as of 1 December 2021 to the Board of ABP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Léon de Jong.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u113	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. I didn't do that yesterday. Everyone is always free to say anything in this house. If you call someone who is not here to defend themselves that way and gives qualifications, then I think it is important, especially when we are talking about demonising, to make a point of that. I'll do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u114	I understand. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u115	I get that GroenLinks gets up, but do you know who else can't defend himself? Pim Fortuyn. Paul Rosenmöller is partly responsible for this. He's just got political blood on his hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u116	Well, well, well, well...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u117	And that's why I'm filing this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u118	Well, well, well, well. Mr. De Jong, Mr. De Jong, don't. It's about the...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u119	Well, it's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u120	No. We're not going this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u121	I have just tabled a motion and I stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u122	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u123	Twenty years after that terrible event.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u124	Too bad. Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u125	I also have a point of order. Yesterday...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u126	No, we're not gonna make this point again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u127	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u128	No. We're not going over each other. Mrs Maatoug has now said something about this. Let's leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u129	Fine, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u130	Mr. De Jong, had you reached the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u131	No, definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u132	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u133	I've got two minutes of 13. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to register the recipients of social security schemes in the context of migration, identifying the individual percentages and costs, and to inform the House of Representatives every year in the Social Affairs and Employment budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw all benefits from status holders and to stop providing new benefits to status holders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that being a welfare state and being an immigration country is an impossible combination and that we must therefore choose;]] [[states that the Netherlands is a welfare state;]] [[calls on the Government to protect the welfare state and therefore close the Dutch borders to all asylum seekers and to all immigrants from Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Léon de Jong and Mr De Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-37]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Léon de Jong and Mr De Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-38]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Léon de Jong and Mr De Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u134	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that immigrants are entitled to receive Dutch social security benefits only after having lived and worked in the Netherlands for 10 years and have not committed any criminal offences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Léon de Jong and Mr De Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u136	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u137	I'd like to know what that means if you're a status holder. Then you have the right to stay here in the Netherlands. You're not an asylum seeker, but you have the right. You can just work here for years. Unemployment is far too high among these people, but there are also a lot of people who work here. Will these people who have worked for years lose unemployment benefit if they become unemployed? They're gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u138	Shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u139	... lose WIA benefit? Are they not going to get an AOW because they have come here as refugees, from Vietnam or from anywhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u140	I do think that if you're a status holder and you've come here... we'll see that over the years and we'll see that this year. There's about 1,000 or 1,500 coming in here a week. We can't handle that at all. We are having a debate today on purchasing power. There is no purchasing power compensation. Mr Omtzigt wrote in his book how important it is to have security of existence. Well, we can't give that security of existence to our own people anymore. Mr Omtzigt should actually support this proposal, because we cannot give the money we give to those status holders to our own people anymore. That's what this motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u141	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u142	It's a choice to whom you give a status, but the moment you give someone a status, let someone do this and have work done here... Yes? 'Cause these people are refugees. That's what we're talking about. That is not about those who are in an asylum-seekers' centre. We are talking about the people who have been staying here for 30, 40 years because they have gotten that status because they fled their country. Yeah? Of those people, more than half of them just find a job. They have just worked for 30 years and then this motion says: we are depriving these people of the AOW benefit. It's in the motion. I mean, don't let's just...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u143	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u144	Is that what the PVV is proposing now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u145	I believe that the honourable Member, Mr Pieter Omtzigt, has heard very well what I said, namely that I do not think that we should give assistance or benefits to status holders at all, because we should give that money to our own people. You can pretend to be the great savior here again and think you're making it difficult for me this way. That is not the case at all. We don't want to give status holders any more benefits. Why don't we want that? Because that same money has to go to our own people. You yourself have written a book stating that the Constitution has security of existence. We can no longer offer this security of existence to our own people. So it is incomprehensible that Mr Omtzigt has at all stood by the microphone to provide this proposal with an interruption, whereas he should just ensure that our own people get what they deserve, namely a normal security of life. The Cabinet doesn't do that. That's what this motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr. Ommzigt, you're quite broad-minded. Very briefly, because these are three in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u147	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u148	And you made your point. You will be able to respond briefly and then the floor will go to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u149	But here the proposal is made that people who are 30 years of age should not only take the benefit, but all benefits. That's what it says. There's the AOW benefit. Those are people who have been here for 40 years...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u150	That's the point you made.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u151	...have come in ago. The PVV doesn't deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u152	Yes, you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u153	That would really be a total breakup since you said to those people: you can stay here. You can say that people can't stay here, but if they're here, then this policy is just throwing those people out on the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u155	No, I don't want them to stay. I want them to leave and we're not gonna pay them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u156	Thank you to Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u157	Mr President, just a personal statement. I can give you an example: this would mean that my wife, who came here as a refugee, would never receive an AOW. That's about what's being proposed here. There's gonna be...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u158	You've made your point, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u159	This isn't just any point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u160	No, Mr. Ommzigt, you've made your point to three, four times. You and Mr De Jong disagree. Mr. De Graaf is still looking at the back wall. I shall now give the floor to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u161	Yeah, I saw some Afghan pitchers behind me. I thought, "What are they doing here?" Mr. Chairman. We had a debate on a budget of about EUR 100 billion. I think that's the largest budget in this country's cabinet. It is the budget of the largest ministry. Then, of course, it is hard to see that we can hardly really have a debate. I'd like to make that point. A very important part, one of the most important elements of our social welfare state, is that we must also be able to live together in a kind of cohesion, social cohesion. In fact, we can hardly debate that. You'll get three or four answers in writing. You could be interrupting. My colleague De Jong also needs a lot to touch on all these other major issues. Then there is actually no debate. There's no debate. We're doing a short question-and-answer game and we're gonna coats the last time it was in six hours and today in about five hours that 100 billion through. And that's it. Nothing's changed. Nothing's gonna happen. I have also invited the Secretary of State to an ideological consideration, but it is not coming. It's not coming. If, as a country, you want to continue as a'society', which now threatens to become more and more a 'parallelity', and if, in large parts, that is actually already true, we will not get there. 'Cause we can't really talk about it here at all. That is why I have always referred to the Minister as invisible in those previous debates. That's not to be annoying, but he doesn't want to talk about this subject. The Secretary of State is also diving away from it. I'm sorry. That's what I want to say. Then I have two and a half minutes to return to what has been said and silenced this week. I have quoted the example of a family that is a lot on TV and deserves a nice sandwich, and who has criticized the wearing of an Islamic headscarf. I'm glad that's what's happening. I have called on the Secretary of State to stand firm and call on everyone to stop excluding people and to stop social and economicizing because of criticism of Islam. Because that's what keeps happening. Then you see that Islam wins. This also confirms the right of my party leader, and of the PVV in its wake, of course, over the past fifteen years. To support that point, I merely quote Koran 33:59. That is a Medinan verse, so that cannot be replaced by another verse, and is a leading verse in the Qur'an. That is an important verse for all Muslims around the world. It says that everyone must remind his wives that they cover their faces with their robes, so that they can be recognized by Allah and by one another, by Muslims among themselves. So it is so that they are recognizable, but above all - that is the point after that so that they are not harassed. That verse is a licence to rape for all women who do not wear Islamic headscarfs. That's why that point of the Meiland family was so important. That's what I'm building here with Koran 33:59. Read it. It's just on the Internet, but it's also in the written version of the Koran. You may also be able to read back stories from the Hadith and the Sira. Bukhari's gonna find something about it, too. I will not go too ideologically into that, but at least this is clear. Mr. Chairman. That's why it's important that we keep the story that we always keep about de-islamization.I'm looking for my glasses right now, but I'll keep my leaf a little further away, including in a motion, also for the next cabinet. Before I read that motion, I would like to stress that I have 40 seconds left; I will be able to do so, and I will be able to confirm what I said last Tuesday and also just now, with that verse and the support of the family we are talking about, for all women throughout the Netherlands. I want to do that again... Okay, there are regressive ladies waving now, not on my behalf. Put one on, you'll be recognizable. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u162	Proceed, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u163	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the increased influence of Islam in the Netherlands;]] [[Observed a current example of this, namely the social and economic erosion attempts by companies of the Meiland family for criticizing the wearing of Islamic headscarfs;]] [[Whereas this is a very small tip of the huge Islamic iceberg;]] [[calls on the negotiators who are already making a long-standing attempt to form a cabinet to de-Islamicise into a standing policy, as well as to be at the forefront of policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Graaf and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u164	Oh, that's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u165	I would like to call on both gentlemen to maintain the atmosphere that we had around the budget debate on SZW. It's a wish, a form of hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u166	Ah, Mr. Chairman. I wonder why I give reason to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u167	We have a debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u168	That's what you asked for, isn't it? So that's what you get.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u169	Well, that's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u170	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. Let's not dwell on this for too long. Apart from the fact that my group naturally distances itself from all the exclusive shit that the PVV always puts forward here, I would like to go into more detail about what the PVV says. You're making a plea against exclusion. You're even arguing against economic exclusion. I wonder whether that is not entirely hypocritical in the light of, for example, your colleague, who was just standing here and actually said that people should be excluded from social security on the basis of their origin. That's socio-economic exclusion. I wonder if that is not totally hypocritical of a party that advocates closing mosques and pulling the Koran off people's bedside table.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u171	What's your question, Mr. Van Baarle?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u172	So my question is: do you realize that what you're doing here is quite clowny and that the only thing missing from you is a red nose?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u173	No, the only clown standing here has a plaid jacket on. It's right here in front of me, because it's all about business. I just indicated: the licence to rape is in chapter 33, verse 59 of the Qur'an. It says that a headscarf must be worn in order to be recognizable and not to be harassed. This means that those who do not wear may be harassed, for that is what is in the Qur'an. Then I say I stand up for all the women who live here in the Netherlands. In addition, another point that Mr De Jong has rightly made is that we cannot accept the whole world here in the Netherlands. If we build the Netherlands, we could lose 80 million people. Then we've got Pakistan pretty much inside, I guess. But where do we put Nigeria? Where do we put Eritrea? Where are we gonna put Saudi Arabia? Or where do we put the whole of Turkey? It can't be. We can't let everyone in here. We choose as PVV for a country that says: we are a social welfare state for the people who live here, for original Dutch people, for people who have entered, but to people who are still not assimilated, we must say that it is not possible. We can't let everyone in. Now 1,200 to 1,500 a week, I thought. I just can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u174	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u175	So it's not a clown's point. It's just looking at what you can handle. I can't open my front door to the whole neighborhood at home either, 'cause then my fridge is empty. After that, I'm out of money, so what? It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u176	Mr. Van Baarle, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u177	Apart from the fact that Mr. De Graaf can of course all pull things off the Internet about what he thinks would be in the Qur'an... I don't even think half of what he's saying is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u178	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u179	But that's not the point. The point is, however, that Mr De Graaf here is wronging all those people, who contribute 1 million Muslims, that day in, day out faithfully, the law here to society. That's what he's doing wrong. Then women's rights. The PVV Group never gives at home when it comes to women's rights. You voted against the international treaty against...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u180	Through the chairman, Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u181	Through the chairman, you voted against...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u182	No. Mr De Graaf voted against or the PVV voted against.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u183	Mr De Graaf voted against the international treaty against violence against women.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u184	Otherwise it's gonna be "you, you" and I don't feel like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u185	If it goes...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u186	Thank you, Mr. Van Baarle. This is a little more than an interruption. It's the second term. A very brief question, otherwise I shall give the floor to Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u187	Well, Mr. Chairman, let's leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u188	Thank you. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u189	May I still respond, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u190	Very briefly. The same applies to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u191	Same thing as?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u192	As for Mr Van Baarle. It is a second term and I would like to ask short questions and answers, also in view of the clock. There will be a whole new budget debate and voting to be held afterwards. So we still have a whole program.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u193	Okay. So we cannot have a debate. Where should I start? Where shall I end up? You know what? Then I'll leave it to it that I... Perhaps I should say: I am not going to respond to reversals of facts or to lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u194	After this PVV member has twice indicated his xenophobic remarks for the protection of all women, I cannot help saying that I kindly refuse that offer of protection of this gentleman but urgently. Within and outside the Chamber, I would like to ask this Member never to worry about me in this context. With this kind of patriarchal care, as a woman, you really don't need Muslims to feel unsafe. So thank you so much for the initiative. I do not want to go along with that in the frame that is put here by the PVV. Let me make no mistake about that. Let me be very clear about that. In any case, I cast this offer of defense far, far, far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u195	What am I gonna do with the interruption of this womanhood? Nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u196	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Tielen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u197	It's almost sintering lass, yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for your firm President's hand in the last few hours. It is pleasant for us as a Chamber to be pushed forward to hold the debate and at the same time to know that we are getting somewhere. I think the debate is listening to each other and seeing how we can do things with each other that help our country forward. Let me look back on the first term. Of course I didn't have time for that, because I was later, but congratulations to Mrs Kat for her beautiful maiden speech. Congratulations to Mrs Den Haan as well. I thought she made a very nice speech about our older people in the labour market. In the case of labour market discrimination we often think of new Dutch people, but very often, in fact most times, they are 45-plussers. Maybe I felt very attracted because I belong to that category as well. Mrs Den Haan is coming up with a motion, including my state to endorse that compliment. We have talked about a lot, for example, about income and where it stays. We talked about the wedge. The Secretary of State had an answer to this in the written questions in which only the word "tax pressure" was used. That wedge is just so much more than just a tax burden. So I was not entirely satisfied with that answer and that means that I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the difference between gross and net wages, the so-called wedge, is perceived by many people as large, but that few people know how it is composed, while it affects their purchasing power;]] [[noting that this also applies to policy-makers;]] [[Whereas there are differences in the wedge between full-time and part-time workers, which cannot be explained or explained;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the differences in the wedge for different income groups and contract forms, including self-employed persons, between full-time and part-time workers and between sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tielen and Mr Palland.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u198	A lot has been said about regional mobility teams. They are meant to help people from work to work or at least to work, so that they simply have a good day's spending and a decent wage. Mrs Maatoug will be tabling a motion on this subject, including my name. We also talked about training. We talked about the R&D funds. I was not entirely enthusiastic about the answer in this regard, as the Secretary of State indicates that he wishes to evaluate the combination of R&D funds and training money available in STEP. But, yes, an evaluation is always ex post and I would like to have some more discussions in advance. I therefore have a motion for a resolution on this too. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of retraining, retraining and post-schooling in the labour market for organisations, individuals and society;]] [[noting that various schemes, jars and funds are being built up by both public authorities and employers and employees to finance them;]] [[having noted that the STEP scheme will enter into force in March 2022;]] [[Whereas sectors themselves have their own arrangements for financing training for workers within the sector;]] [[Whereas arrangements are ideally mutually reinforcing and not countering;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the sectors, to make clear how the STAP and R&D funds are mutually reinforcing in order to prevent them from working against each other, and to inform the House of Representatives before the summer of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u199	I have more about education, namely skills. The Secretary of State himself called it "direction." That's great. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the labour market would function better if there was a better understanding of what people can and/or should be able to do in certain jobs and occupations, and that skill passports are a useful tool for this;]] [[Whereas initiatives for skills passports are now fragmented across different companies, sectors, institutes, labour market regions and so on;]] [[Whereas the UWV is currently working on a so-called roadmap to develop this skill steel;]] [[Whereas it is important to create critical mass so that all parties concerned use the same skill steel as the UWV everywhere;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that UWV and the various stakeholders develop and implement well-coordinated skills passports with the aim of enabling employers, jobseekers and employees to work with a national skills passport in 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u200	Then last. We've talked a lot about men and women, also in the last few minutes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas women do not yet have a fully equal position on the labour market;]] [[Considering that in the 1980s a government campaign entitled "A smart girl is prepared for her future" stimulated ideas and opportunities for women and work;]] [[Whereas this public campaign, in conjunction with other policy instruments, has resulted in increased female employment rates;]] [[calls on the Government, in conjunction with relevant policy instruments, to work on a broad public campaign that is consistent with this time and aims to contribute to a more equal position of women in the labour market, both in perception and in reality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u201	The Secretary of State himself referred to the campaign Are you guys out yet? I was sorry to hear that. Just that "A smart girl" campaign has been so incredibly successful. I'll call you a few numbers. 99% of the target group knew the campaign at that time. 94% of the target group recognised the message and more than three quarters agreed with that message. As a marketer, I've been one myself. I've never had such a successful campaign. I also dare to say a little bit that "Are you guys out yet?"-campaign was less successful than this one. That is why the reference to this one, even if it is from the last century. Mr. Chairman. I think there is a lot to do to ensure that people in the Netherlands can get back to work next year. I see Mr. Nijboer has a question for me. I think I already know which one that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u202	I have a hunch, too. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u203	We debated purchasing power on Tuesday night. Then the VVD Group said that something must be done about that and I am open to ideas. We got the answers and the letter from the Secretary of State. He didn't do anything additional. So my question is, how is that possible? Didn't it work or was it more of a form? What has happened so that there is no motion or proposal to do something about that purchasing power? 'Cause people just go backwards across the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u204	Mr. Nijboer says that letter doesn't do anything, or that there's nothing in it. Mr. Van Kent had some big words about that, too. I disagree with both of these gentlemen. I think that letter sets out how we want to deal with this kind of thing. I'm gonna take a little more time, Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna try. I actually had 17 minutes, I think, but I signed up for less. Purchasing power is neither a goal nor a reality. Buying power is a theoretical calculation to predict the impact of circumstances and policy instruments on the conditions and disposable income of the average Dutchman. In this whole story, purchasing power has become a bit of a life of its own. It's very important. I don't know what page number it's on, but it's not for nothing that that purchasing power is in there. Indeed, it is a responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs to ensure that with everything that is done about tax burden, premiums, support measures, there is also always a marginal pressure graph in. Now the circumstances have changed. We've seen that. I think that was also good in the letter: the circumstances have changed since Princess Day, since all those calculations. Then the cabinet says: that means that it has an influence on that; we have to do something about that. What I think that letter is doing is making us a little cool again. I believe that this is also important if we are to make policies and choices. It also shows that there must be a safety net when people are at risk of falling through the ice. I think that's what I said on Tuesday. That's what that letter does to me. There's no extra stuff in there. I didn't see that either. But I see that we also do not yet know exactly what would be needed for euros, for measures, and for anyone and whatever. So I don't agree to take off that letter if it doesn't say anything. It shows how the cabinet wants to deal with it and how we should deal with it as a Chamber. Actually, I think I can agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u205	I really think this is a smokescreen: "buy power is not a goal." There's no one in the Chamber staring to death at purchasing power cards. But the point is that people can buy less of their wages, their AOW, their pensions or their benefits as of 1 January. The rents are rising. Fuel costs are rising. The groceries are becoming more expensive and the energy bill is still the most expensive. The cabinet had a compensation package. That was Tuesday too. That is exactly what the letter explained. But then the VVD said: we also have concerns; this is not going well, because we are the party of "work must pay" and of relief; this is not enough for us; we want some. Now Mrs Tielen actually says, "Well, I have had a letter of formal notice stating what we already knew," and now purchasing power is no longer a goal. Mrs. Tielen now has the tail between the legs and actually pulls in a little bit. That's actually what we're witnessing here. I find that sad for everyone who expected that their income and purchasing power would still be improved by next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u206	A short response from Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u207	In my opinion, it is important that politics says that it has an eye for it and that it acts if it needs to. I would also like to make it clear that if we say something today, it will not be settled next week. Sometimes I think we give that impression to people who watch. They then think: oh, now they are debating it, so it will be resolved next week. But it's not. I think it is very important to keep an eye on how this is actually developing. No one can predict, unfortunately neither can I. I remain willing to look at it, but I don't feel that I now know how much money I have to pull out of my pocket for when and for which people and where that has to come from, other than what is now in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u208	It's disappointing, isn't it? Last Tuesday I posted an interruption here at the VVD. At that time, I indicated that inflation goes to 6%, that people can no longer afford the groceries and the rents and that this is therefore a major problem. Then the VVD said: we see that too; we have an eye for that. Maybe I missed something. There may be another motion for an improvement in purchasing power, but I haven't seen it. Now I have tabled a motion myself asking for a purchasing power package to do everything in my power to reduce the rents and you name it. Can the VVD, as it suggested on Tuesday, support such a purchasing power package?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u209	The beauty of paraphrasing is that you can tell in your own words what someone else has said. I also think that I made it very clear on Tuesday that I do not want to make false promises or have a money tree in the garden and that I found some of the proposed proposals rather one-dimensional. That's what I said on Tuesday. You can check the Acts on that. That's what I'm worried about, too. I also speak to people who, as I would almost say, panic when they look at things, but I think we should take things one step at a time. Once again, I think that the letter from the Secretary of State is clear, also because he states that this should be looked at again if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u210	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u211	It's one dimensional. That's it. I agree. The purchasing power of the people is not being improved. That's different from what the VVD suggested last Tuesday. That's the way these debates always go. That has nothing to do with paraphrasing. If we have a debate here in which the VVD calls for an improvement in purchasing power, a compensation, but then comes with nothing, that is a blow to the face of all those people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u212	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u213	I would like to raise my question here. When will it be enough for the VVD? When does the VVD say: so far and no further, now there must be compensation? Are we going to take stock of that on January 1st? Are we gonna do that next week? When will it be enough for the VVD? When can they finally count on you? 'Cause today's not a good day at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u214	I find that a difficult question. I just said that's what I'm worried about. I'm looking at it, too. I don't know which monitor was asked or asked. I do not know whether the date of 1 January is so convenient or whether we should be sitting two weeks before that. I repeat what I said on Tuesday. That will disappoint you; I expect that back. I said we're worried and we're looking at it. The real development of inflation, the real development of energy prices and the actual development of costs must be monitored. I can't predict when I'm gonna ring the bell, but I'm gonna stay open to that, and I'm gonna keep talking about that. That's all I can say about that without making false promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u215	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. I call Mr De Kort.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Cabinet for its reply. From the written reply, I can see that the cabinet shares the VVD's view that it is wise to follow early school leavers longer, so I would also like to look forward to the legislative changes. I was going to table a motion to challenge these municipalities more when it comes to these BUIG funds, but I am pleased with the commitment and I am also curious to see what will come out of it when the Secretary of State deals with the municipalities, especially those that do too little. I have two other motions. Through the President, I would like to present it; I cannot recite it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u217	Then I'll read them both.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u218	Yes. One motion concerns transparency in the card box of assistance. I will submit them together with D66, CDA, Christian Union and JA21. And the other motion is about practical training in welfare, which we submit together with D66. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that not everyone who applies for a benefit has a starting qualification;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council;]] [[Whereas initial qualification offers more opportunities in the labour market;]] [[Whereas there are sufficient good examples of practical training with a strong labour perspective;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that assistance recipients without initial qualification receive practical training as an appropriate offer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are 430,000 people in the assistance, that we are entering a tight labour market and that employers indicate that the competences of people in the assistance are insufficiently understood;]] [[Considering that everyone currently in the assistance deserves to become independent;]] [[Whereas greater understanding of the card box can lead to better integration into the labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with municipalities and UWV, the organisation of transparency in the card box of welfare recipients and their competences for employers, and to inform the Court in the second quarter of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Kort and Mr Sahla.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-46]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr De Kort, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Sahla, Mr Palland and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u219	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would just like to respond briefly to the five considerations I have given the cabinet when it comes to people with disabilities and giving them the opportunity to develop their talents. In general, I welcome the way the cabinet responds, except for one point: that talent indication. It says that this is already happening to a large extent, but I am getting signals that this is not happening enough. I think there really is a need for a change of mind, both at UWV and municipalities. With the best of intentions, they are helping people with Wajong benefits, but I really think we should look at that in a different way. However, we will come back to that in the broad offensive, and that is why I will also table a motion with Mrs Kat of D66 on the Wajong reporting point. So much for my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u220	Thank you, Mr De Kort. Oh, there is another question to Mr De Kort, from Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u221	Yes, because earlier in the debate the VVD colleague said something about his aldermen's experience. I'm really looking. I recently received a very nice e-mail via you, President.... about the words that sometimes go around about welfare recipients: 'the card box'; the terrible word.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because I know that the colleague of the VVD has a lot of experience with it, even in his previous life, I thought: I am asking that question; what do we call it best? 'Cause that e-mail got to me like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u222	In a previous life... I'm only 29, so that's not so bad. But my fellow alderman Van Dongen was responsible for the assistance in Veldhoven, although of course I was very much involved. And as the Secretary of State pointed out, the law provides ample opportunity to offer tailor-made solutions. So there is a lot of customization to be offered for these distressing cases, and I agree with GroenLinks. And that's why it's good, that's how the VVD thinks this is decentralised, because that municipality is much closer to those residents than a ministry, from The Hague. So that customization is necessary, and that supports the VVD. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u223	Thank you. I call Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u224	Mr. Chairman. Pensioners have been standing still since 2007 in terms of purchasing power. Even a number of pensions have been cut. As a result, people have lost almost a quarter of their purchasing power and in the coming years it seems that this will continue to be the case, at least for the many millions of pensioners who are members of the large pension funds. A number of suspects are very enthusiastic about this new system. Among other things, all the possible advisers and pension specialists who are going to advise all these pension funds and write huge bills for them, but also recently the pension insurers who prey and hunt for those pension billions. I call the National Netherlands, which indicated: we are going to double our market share there. They look at these occupational pension funds. And that's what the SP is very worried about. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that insurers such as Nationale Nederlanden have announced that they are pursuing the 340 billion euros of pension funds in the new pension system;]] [[calls on the government to examine the role of insurers in the new pension system, its impact on participants and how to secure the control of workers and pensioners over their own pension funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u225	If we are not careful, this new system is going to be as leaky as a basket and ensure that a lot of pension money is transferred to insurers and that pension money ends up with insurance shareholders instead of employees and pensioners. The whole debate today on purchasing power has become ugly. I just heard the VVD lecture on the definition of purchasing power and that it will not be an end in itself. Yeah, I'm sure it's all right, but people at home simply can't pay the bills and there's heavy weather coming. Everything is about getting more expensive and income isn't rising. In fact, for a number of groups, income will also fall due to the VVD. We are talking, for example, about people in welfare. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. This government, this Secretary of State and the VVD pretended that something was going to change here in the debate, but the opposite has proved to be true. We have received a crappy letter in which a plan is able to look together with the municipalities, but people who just work and worry about those accounts are not going to benefit at all. Their sand is sprinkled in the eyes and they will be back at the pump, will be back at the cash register and will receive the bill on the mat that they simply cannot pay. And that's our responsibility here. If we leave these people in poverty, it is a political choice that rests on the shoulders of the VVD. I see laughter now in the field of the VVD, but for these people at home it's a big deal. I am not going to stand here pretending that something is going to change and then nothing is being delivered at all, nothing at all! That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that inflation is 5,6% this month;]] [[noting that this has major consequences in people's wallets;]] [[noting that the wages of ordinary people have been lagging behind for years and poverty is increasing while the number of millionaires and billionaires is rising;]] [[calls on the government to increase the minimum wage by 20% on 1 January 2022, then to increase to €15 in 2025,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u226	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I welcome the positive attitude of the Secretary of State on the SP amendment to delete the cost sharing standard next year. I call on everyone to look very seriously at this amendment to prevent aid from falling in the coming years, because that is going to cause a lot of misery, especially in the light of increasing inflation. It is a number of minor repairs, changes, in the budget that are going to have a direct and very significant effect for a lot of people in the Netherlands. I call on everyone to support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u227	Thank you to Mr Van Kent. I call Mrs Kat, D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u228	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation to the Ministry and to the Secretary of State for the great amount of work that has been done. The questions we have asked have been answered quickly, with good answers. However, I would like to table a number of motions. I'll start with a motion on governance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are currently few quality requirements for the work of directors and that many signals have been received in recent years about malicious directors;]] [[Whereas supervision of the work of directors is currently carried out solely on the basis of complaints which have already caused the suffering;]] [[considers that persons placed under control should be able to assume that they receive reliable and qualitative services;]] [[Calls on the Government in the National Platform Consultation on Debt Management, where directors, municipalities, case law, JenV and SZW are represented, to assess whether the requirements imposed on directors are sufficient;]] [[invites the Government to involve the experience of persons under management in order to assess the need for further requirements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kat, Mr Peters and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u229	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities can only exercise their advisory rights after the judge has appointed a director;]] [[Whereas, in some cases, municipalities prefer lighter forms of assistance, such as budget management, but in some cases are already faced with a completed fact;]] [[considers that municipalities should be able to make full use of their advisory rights;]] [[calls on the government to consult with municipalities on their commitment to the right of advice and to assess whether it is being used by municipalities at present;]] [[invites the Government, if this is not the case, to consider, together with the municipalities, what could be done to promote the use of advisory rights and to link them back to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kat, Mr Peters and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u230	Then, as Mr De Kort pointed out, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Each Information Point (in) supports Wajongers in an easily accessible way;]] [[Whereas the implementation of the Simplifying Wajong Act may raise many questions or uncertainties for Wajongers;]] [[Whereas the Information Point would cease to exist in 2022;]] [[calls on the Government to continue the Information Point on Disability Services for Young Disabled Persons (Wajong) for 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kat, Mr Sahla, Mr Ceder and Mr De Kort.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u231	The last motion is in line with the words of the Secretary of State himself when it comes to cherishing what is good, when it comes to working on trust, when it comes to infrastructure from innovation and when it comes to co-creation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many municipalities want to develop new ways to support and guide welfare recipients to work;]] [[Whereas in doing so they run into the limits of the Participation Act and sometimes do not have sufficient legal scope to develop these new ways;]] [[Considers that running pilots that sometimes look up the boundaries of the current law can provide a lot of information that helps to improve support for welfare recipients;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with municipalities, to extend the experimental article in the Participation Act in order to provide more opportunities for municipal pilots,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kat, Mr Sahla, Mr Maatoug, Mr Cedar and Mr Palland.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u233	Thanks to Mrs. Kat. I call Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts, also from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Secretary of State and the staff of the Ministry for answering our questions, which have been asked by my colleague Romke de Jong. I would also like to thank him very much for replacing me last Tuesday. And the staff of our group: you were very flexible in that, so thank you very much for that. The Secretary of State also addressed childcare in the reply today. I'm very happy with his answers. In order to encourage him a little bit more, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that childcare is suffering from significant staff shortages;]] [[Whereas childcare is an important element in the development of children and in the promotion of employment among young parents;]] [[Whereas the safety of children should be paramount, but a large number of rules increase the workload;]] [[calls on the Government to address the shortages by continuing to support the recruitment campaign for childcare staff, and to explore ways to further reduce the regulatory burden in childcare without compromising the safety of children;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Beukering-Huijbregts, Mr Tielen, Mr Palland and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u235	In the answers we also received a response to our question about quick fixes. I would like to pick one out and table a motion on it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Kinderombudsman and the National Ombudsman have been calling for attention for years to be paid to children whose parents are not legally resident in the Netherlands and who are therefore growing up in poverty;]] [[noting that the verification of the residence status of children of payment applicants in the rental payment was a bottleneck in the implementation and that this check was released by 2022;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State has indicated that the Tax Administration is hesitant about the feasibility of checking the residence status of children in the child-related budget;]] [[Whereas the child-related budget is an important tool for all legally resident parents to support their child;]] [[Whereas non-existent arrangements should be avoided;]] [[whereas the group of legally resident parents with children with no residence status is low, but the control of this status causes a great deal of implementation burden;]] [[calls on the Government to re-examine the impact of the assessment of the child's residence status on the granting of the child-related budget, taking into account the implementation costs, implementation capacity and policy costs of the possible allocation of child-related budget to legally resident parents with children without a residence status, and to inform the Chamber by 1 February at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Beukering-Huijbregts, Cedar and Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u236	I'll have a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u237	That's very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u238	I have one more motion. I'm gonna read it to you soon, and I hope to be able to read it in time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 30% of employers maintain a competitive clause, which is often unnecessary because these workers do not have access to sensitive information;]] [[noting that the current use of the competitive clause hinders workers in the labour market and reduces labour mobility;]] [[Whereas this obstacle is not desirable, especially in times of labour shortages;]] [[noting that the development of policy options aimed at reducing unnecessary use of the competitive clause has been under way for a long time;]] [[calls on the government to adapt the competitive clause as soon as possible so that people are no longer unnecessarily hindered in the labour market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Beuker-Huijbregts and Gijs van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u239	Mr. Chairman. I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna have to close up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u240	Thank you. I call Mr Nijboer, Mr PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u241	Thank you, Mr President. The secretary of state was a substitute for the minister about not the smallest budget in the country. He's done a good job. I think he did a good job of that, and I would also like to congratulate him on that. That doesn't mean I agreed with all the answers. That'd be something too. The most important point of dispute is that it focuses on purchasing power. The PvdA Group has always said from the General Reviews, the General Financial Reviews, the Tax Plan and also in the Social Affairs budget: if the economy grows and you put everyone on the zero line, that is not a good thing. You'll get even higher inflation. We didn't anticipate that. No one anticipated that. Then you can see that the whole of the Netherlands is deteriorating. That's worthless, and you can do something about it. The cabinet has certainly done something about the energy bill. That's serious money, too. I mean, I'm not gonna go over 3 billion... I was gonna say "do shit," but that's not such a parliamentary language. I don't want to be scornful about that. But if the result is that pensions are not indexed and inflation is hugely high, then purchasing power is declining. If the rents increase enormously because of the housing shortage and if inflation also increases, you have nothing to spend anymore. If you can't make ends meet right now, it's gonna be even harder next year. So we're really unhappy about that. I also think that last Tuesday the VVD attracted a slightly too big pair of pants with room to do something about it, because it turns out that there was an explanatory letter from the Secretary of State but no additional measures. I regret that. That is why I am coming up with a motion with Mrs Maatoug to try to reverse the tide for the Navy's note, because that is still possible. That too is a law. Mr. Chairman. I have three other points to make. The first point is diversity. I do not have a motion on this, because in the debate the Secretary of State made a commitment that he would also make a strong commitment to this at the top of companies, at accountancy offices and at pension funds. If I get a good promise, I won't make another motion on it. So I trust that he will get to work on this and I hope that this will produce results. I have two other points to make. I asked for the batter-free foot. Choose the same approach as the Secretary of State announced for benefits. Give some room and don't be too punitive. Give me a little more space. You have to go to the canton court now if you're in that impound foot and if you're in debt. That's never gonna happen. You can do that on paper. I agree with Mr Peters, who said that municipalities are allowed a lot, but does that happen? Of course, this never happens. If you use that, you never do. My call is to do so. The Secretary of State has not yet agreed to this in his letter. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gas and energy prices are rising enormously and do not correspond to the current standard rates at the unhindered foot;]] [[Whereas people in debt depend on bailiffs to adjust the attachment-free foot;]] [[calls on the government to help people in debt affected by rising prices, such as gas and energy, to expand the unhindered foot,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Maatoug and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u242	Mr. Chairman. We have also had a rather fundamental debate in which the Secretary of State was best suited to the concerns of the PvdA group: if you move in together, what does that mean for your benefit, your income, your taxes and your position? If you add it all together, sometimes you're crazy living together. That can never be the intention, especially with the housing shortage in which we are in this country. I didn't get this far with "motiehosselen" because of your tight hand. The motion has been co-signed by a left-wing friend, but I think this motion can get broader support, because this is really a fundamental problem. We do not have the illusion that we have the outcome in this debate, but it is necessary to make real improvements in the coming years. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that cohabitation is severely discouraged by the accumulation of taxes, surcharges and social provisions, while housing is in short supply;]] [[calls on the government to carry out a comprehensive study of the adverse financial consequences of cohabitation for people on diverse incomes, including the effects of the tax system, child-related budget, supplements, benefits, AOW, debt restructuring and so on, and to make proposals for reducing this cohabitation gap,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Maatoug and Mr Van Kent.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u243	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the Presidency and my fellow Members for the generally fairly pleasant debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u244	Thank you. Mrs. Palland, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u245	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the reply and to the colleagues for the discussion. We have, of course, considered labour market shortages. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his enthusiastic response to SBB and the position in the regional mobility teams. I have also drawn attention to the social development companies in order to enable people to participate in the labour market, on which Mr Ceder will also come back, for the Harries as a partner in the workplace and for the position of seniors in the labour market. Mrs Den Haan will come back to that, and I very much support that. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion on families. The last note Family Policy dates from 2008. We think it is high time for a new investigation into this. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas from the WRR report "The Better Work. The new social mission" shows that uncertainty in the labour and housing market means that people (yet) cannot or do not have the courage to start a family;]] [[Whereas family and family relations are under pressure as a result of the corona crisis;]] [[noting that a supportive family policy and a coherent system of child and leave arrangements are currently lacking in the Netherlands and that the last Family Policy note dates back to 2008;]] [[noting that other countries have a much more explicit and integrated family policy;]] [[Considering that in 2020 the ibo Part-Time and the Scenario Study Design Children's Facilities Report came out, but family policy is much more than just working hours or an accessible system of child schemes;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[from SZW to conduct an integral study on the situation of families in the Netherlands, with attention to all aspects that concern families, such as income, labour and care, family and relationship formation, well-being and parenting, and with the involvement of OCW, VWS and other relevant departments;]] [[an inventory of current family policies in our neighbouring countries, including policy instruments deployed there and their effectiveness,]] [[both of which can serve as a basis for a new Family Policy Note and inform the Court in the second quarter of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u246	Mr. Chairman. In my first term I told you about the Bossche Sint-Jan, where when you walk to the middle and look all the way up to the supreme point of the Saint-Jan, you see the eye of God. That is a beautiful image of a helper who looks down on you and also the image of the sign in many Catholic families with that same eye and "God sees you." Our position is that the government, through you, President, sometimes looked too much like that to the Secretary of State, from high altitude, far away and with moral judgment, and that sometimes that is a bit scary and sometimes does not bring aid really close. We have seen today and these days that there are incredibly many people with serious problems and that the government can help, also by customization. We have had an interrupting debate with the Minister. There is much within the P-Law, there can be a lot when it comes to the Wmo, there can also be a lot from the Youth Act and there can even be a lot from the cost-sharing standard, but we are totally inadequate. Part of that, we think, is because of that great distance and those moral judgments. The Minister I thank... I would like to thank the Secretary of State very much for the answers, also because of the tone that spoke of them, namely a tone that in any case calls for a little more proximity, a little less distance. This gives me hope for 15 December, when we are discussing my subject of debt and poverty together. I look forward to that meeting with compliments to the Secretary of State. Whether the words can also become the flesh, we see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u247	Thank you, Mr Peters. Mrs Maatoug, GroenLinks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u248	Mr. Chairman. Three minutes, three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas rents, groceries, gas and energy and transport costs have increased enormously and exceptionally, preventing people from getting around financially and putting more people into poverty;]] [[calls on the Government to supplement the announced energy poverty package in order to also compensate for increased inflation for other living needs, to send this additional package to the Chamber before the debate on the Autumn note and to inform the Chamber of the purchasing power effects of this package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maatoug and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u249	Motion two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a mismatch in the labour market;]] [[Whereas the corona crisis creates momentum for people to orientate themselves towards a transition to a deficit sector and, for that purpose, to be retrained or retrained;]] [[Whereas the regional mobility teams are also allocated corona support budget in 2022;]] [[calls on the government to address labour shortages by at least:]] [[making available regional mobility teams for all workers, job seekers and employers, so that they can lead people to a job in a deficit sector with, for example, the "NL learns by" scheme, training pathways and learning jobs;]] [[make these teams more and more widely known;]] [[apply the learning points of cooperation in the regional mobility teams in a structural infrastructure for guidance of people from work to work, including concrete arrangements with municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maatoug, Mr Tielen, Mr Van Beuker-Huijbregts and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u250	Motion three. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the case of workplace checks, the SZW inspection encounters abuses which are so serious that they should actually be stopped immediately;]] [[Considering, however, that this is not possible on the basis of the current enforcement instruments in the labour laws, since the inspection can only impose fines and warnings, sometimes requiring longer-term investigations;]] [[considers that serious abuses should be immediately eliminated in order to avoid the same happening to other workers one day later;]] [[calls on the Government to give the Inspectorate SZW the power to suspend administrative action in the event of suspicion of serious injury,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maatoug and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u251	Mr. Chairman. In the last few seconds, I say, I don't know what the verdict of this film is going to be. I'm very curious about the end. I think it might be a series with multiple episodes. But to finish seriously, I started my contribution with the f-word. We've been talking about a lot of issues over the last few days. But in the end, as a Chamber, we are going to vote on motions on this budget and on what our words are worth when it comes to energy poverty, for example. We as a group are very much looking forward to that. I'm also really excited about season two of this series.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u252	Thanks to Mrs Maatoug. Could you turn in the motions, please? Mr Cedar, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers and the debate with the colleagues in office. Mr. Chairman. Before I start the motions, I have a question. Today, the Labour Market Fund FCB published a report on how we can fix the labour shortages in childcare and what quick wins are. That came out today. I saw that there were a number of practical things in it, as people ask to work a few more hours and see if you can work with combination jobs and do more side-input. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he would take that report, or research, and study it carefully. Is there any way he could respond to that? Maybe that'll help in the situation we all recognize. I have three motions. I have also tabled a number of motions with other colleagues. But I'll submit these myself. I present this with regard to the social development companies. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the labour market is severely affected and that there are still many people on the side of the labour market who can be helped with proper guidance;]] [[Whereas social development companies play an essential role in helping people who are remote from the labour market and helping employers to make work suitable for jobseekers;]] [[Whereas social development companies indicate that they can help thousands of additional people, including new and other target groups, to work;]] [[Calls on the Government to consult with municipalities, regional mobility teams and social development companies to consider whether and how social development companies can play a greater role in helping people who are now sidelined, using the resources from the supplementary social package, and to inform the Chamber of 1 February 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ceder and Mr Palland.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u254	Just before the sharpness of this motion. On Tuesday, Mr Ceder and I also had a brief debate on the inclusive labour market. So Mr Ceder means that those sw companies can also be used to place people with disabilities with a regular employer, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u255	The purpose of this motion is that they should at least be consulted. I do not want to go into detail about what is possible, also because the municipality has its own responsibility and competence within the budgetary framework. There are several options possible. I've got that in mind, too. But I feel limited by laws and regulations and budgetary frameworks. My motion therefore calls in particular for consultation with the aim of helping people who are now on the sidelines to get to work. I think we can both agree with that. This could also be done by regular companies. Mr President, I shall continue. I have a motion on a nationwide debt dashboard. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the debt problem in the Netherlands is large and that debt relief is carried out by many parties, making it difficult to keep an overview;]] [[Whereas it is important to identify clearly the size of problematic debt, what debt relief pathways are running, what approaches are effective and what progress is being made in the debt approach;]] [[Whereas several parties to the debt relief process already have experience in developing (local) debt dashboards;]] [[calls on the government to explore with organisations such as the Dutch Debt Aid Route and DebtHelpMaatje how a nationwide dashboard can be realised to map debt issues and debt relief both quantitatively and qualitatively,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Cedar, Mr Stoffer, Mr Peters and Mr Kat.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u256	My final motion concerns the Craft Academy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Craft Academy has proved successful in providing training for specialist professions and that this has now led to numerous new craft enterprises;]] [[Whereas self-financing without a public contribution to the Craft Academy is a complex issue because of the special structure of self-employed professionals and the small scale of the industries;]] [[Whereas it is important that training for specialist professions should continue to be carried out and that the Craft Academy should be able to continue to play a role in this process;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss with the Craft Foundation in the near future how the knowledge, expertise and infrastructure of the Craft Academy can be secured in the future, and to inform the Chamber thereof before 1 April 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Ceder, Mr Van Beuker-Huijbregts, Mr Tielen and Mr Palland.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u257	That's it, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u258	Thank you, Mr Ceder. Then Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I don't see that one, so we're moving on to Mr. Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u259	Mr. Chairman. I had asked questions about mourning leave, about debt issues and about wage costs benefit. Those questions have been answered very well. That's what I said in an interruption. I also got a nice commitment on the wage cost advantage. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there are no SGP motions on this budget. I am going to use my last minute to help Mr Peters on his way. He has spoken of the all-seeing eye of God. I have a feeling he's had some traumatic experiences. But as a Protestant, I always want to help my Roman Catholic compatriots on their way. My maiden speech from three and a half years ago was exactly about this image. I've always seen it as a loving, merciful image of God the Father. I'll send it to Mr. Peters in a moment. Maybe he'll get a little easier in life after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u260	Mr Peters is very keen to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u261	I think that was exactly the image we wanted: not a moral eye that assesses everything, but a warm and loving eye. So thank you for this help. I like to look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u262	Thank you, Mr Stoffer. Mr Van Baarle, DENK, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I mentioned the cost-sharing standard in my contribution. That is what Mr Peters has been talking about. Together with Mr Peters, we have tabled a motion on the cost-sharing standard. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that there is a link between the cost sharing standard and youth homelessness;]] [[noting that homelessness, regardless of human suffering, is also costly and socially harmful;]] [[noting that, under the current law, municipalities may waive the cost-sharing standard on an individual basis and offer tailor-made services;]] [[noting that a number of municipalities do this too little;]] [[Whereas tailor-made work causes suffering and saves money;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with the VNG on better use of customisation in the cost sharing standard for young people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Peters.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u264	Then I have two motions on labour market discrimination. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that labour market discrimination is a persistent problem;]] [[noting that there is an Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination for the period 2018-2021;]] [[Calls on the Government to continue the actions set out in the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan 2018-2021 in the run-up to the national plan to be drawn up against discrimination with the National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up, as part of the forthcoming national anti-discrimination plan, a new multi-annual action plan against labour market discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a legislative proposal has been in preparation since 2019 which envisages a reporting obligation for intermediaries of discriminatory requests;]] [[calls on the Government to send to the Chamber as soon as possible the legislative proposal providing for a duty to notify discriminatory applications for temporary employment agencies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-66]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u265	Finally, I have a motion on risk profiling. We have taken note of the written reply of the Secretary of State on this point, but we do not share the view that it should be desirable to profile people on country of origin. We find this politically undesirable. So we have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government indicates that risk profiling on country of origin is permitted in property studies;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit country-of-origin risk profiling in the enforcement of the Participation Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u266	Mr. Chairman. It remains for me to say that the DENK Group has also taken note with disappointment of the letter of the Secretary of State which dealt with the issue of purchasing power. We would have liked the government to have taken measures to compensate those Dutch people who are suffering from the ever-increasing cost of life for these rising costs. We find it extremely disappointing that the government is currently leaving these Dutch in the cold. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u267	Thank you to Mr Van Baarle. Mrs. Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u268	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the questions, both in writing and orally. We have known each other for a long time; we also congratulate you on the way in which you have answered all the questions and defended your budget on your own, very open and accessible. Colleagues Palland and Tielen have already mentioned the labour market for 45-plussers. Unfortunately, this group of older jobseekers is still lagging behind in the labour market. That is actually too crazy for words, firstly because we need them very hard and hard at the moment, secondly because you have to work for a long time from the age of 45 and still have a lot to do and want to do for society. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that employers often no longer employ people after 45 to 50 years of age;]] [[Whereas one of the arguments for a higher AOW age was that there were too few people to work;]] [[Whereas there are many sectors in the corona crisis, including care, where there is a huge shortage of staff;]] [[calls on the Government to use a covenant with municipalities, employers' and employees' organisations, UWV and the temporary agency industry to do everything in its power to ensure that 45-plus-members return to full participation in the labour market and agree on how to remove prejudices over older workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Den Haan, Mr Tielen, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Palland, Mr Van Beukering-Huijbregts, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Ceder, Mr Nijboer, Mr Simons and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u269	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas volunteers are invaluable in care and there is a huge shortage of people in care;]] [[noting that the current legislation does not allow people with a WW benefit to volunteer in the care sector;]] [[calls on the government to remove obstacles so that people with benefits during the pandemic can volunteer in healthcare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Maatoug, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Nijboer, Mr Simons and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u270	Then the final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a significant difference in purchasing power development between workers and non-workers for years;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and inform the Court of Justice of the various policy options to reduce the lag in purchasing power between workers and non-employed persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Van Baarle and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u272	Thank you to Mrs Den Haan. Mrs Simons, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands is one of the richest countries in the world, but around 2 million Dutch people live around the poverty line and one in 13 children grow up in poverty because the minimum wage has not risen sufficiently with inflation;]] [[Considering that when the legal minimum wage was introduced in 1969, this was 65% of the average wage, but it turned out to have fallen to less than 45% in 2015;]] [[Considering that the European Trade Union Confederation indicates that, in order to combat this inequality, the minimum wage should be at least 60% of the local median income, and that in the Netherlands this will amount to €14 per hour in 2022;]] [[Considering that security of existence is one of the key values in a prosperous country, that it is undesirable that a large proportion of the population remain behind in this area for years to come, and it is therefore important to follow the urgency of the ETUC recommendation;]] [[considers, therefore, that we should take a first step towards the recommendation of the ETUC;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[examine what is needed to increase the minimum wage to €14 per hour in the shortest possible period;]] [[inform the Court thereof before the end of the first quarter in 2022;]] [[to come up with a concrete plan and a timeline to improve the security of life of every Netherlands by raising the minimum wage to €14 per hour,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many young people aged 18, 19 and 20 years have to work hard in addition to their studies or training to get around and pay for their studies;]] [[This is an enormous burden and burden for these young people and, for this reason, a large majority of the Chamber is, for example, in favour of the abolition of the debt system and for the re-establishment of the basic exchange, as witnessed by the adoption of the motion in part No. 42 (35925) by Mr Dassen and others;]] [[says that we do not want to leave these students in the cold financially, as the elongated formation slows down the reintroduction of the basic grant;]] [[considers, furthermore, that every adult Dutch citizen should be entitled to equivalent rights and thus an equivalent adult wage;]] [[calls on the Government to align the minimum youth wage from the age of 18 with the adult minimum wage and, as a result, to raise the minimum wage for minors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Teunissen, Mr Den Haan, Mr Maatoug and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-72]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Teunissen, Mr Den Haan and Mr Maatoug.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u274	It got late yesterday. I can tell. It was early this morning, let me put it this way. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sex work is a full-fledged profession but the industry is not considered and protected as such;]] [[Whereas sex workers should have the same employment rights as any other profession, and that these rights can be better protected under the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment;]] [[Whereas better protection of sex workers' labour rights makes it easier to identify, detect and address abuses of exploitation and trafficking in human beings;]] [[Whereas inter-departmental cooperation on tackling abuses of exploitation and trafficking in human beings remains without prejudice to the possibility of including sex work in the Ministry of SZW;]] [[points out that sex work is work and should be considered as a full-fledged sector and protected;]] [[calls on the outgoing cabinet to take preparatory steps to accommodate sex work at the Ministry of SZW in order to ensure that sex workers with the same rights as other working groups can fully exercise their profession, and so that the following missionary directors of SZW can quickly move on to this dossier,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Den Haan, Mr Maatoug and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u276	Thank you. Finally, Mr Omtzigt has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u277	Mr. Chairman. I thank the government for the answers. However, I would like to make two points on the budget before us. The first is that, following the resignation of the cabinet on 19 January, we adopted a motion to see if there are any more dossiers such as the childcare allowance scandal. At that time, we explicitly mentioned files such as the removals and the WIA, which Mr Van Kent also made comments about. We asked if they could be examined independently. This is difficult to get off the ground, it is being invested externally and the hotline we asked for is not coming. I've sent all kinds of memos to the government by now asking them to take a look at it. Look at the ILO Convention 121. In 2011 we already had a turn on our head from abroad about the removals. Look at the many cries we get from many groups of parents. There's something going on with legal protection. The videos on the internet about children being placed out of the house are toe-curving. You then hope that an investigation will begin; you know that that does not immediately mean that it will be resolved. I see, to my regret, that that will not be picked up. It takes two riots to get us to take a look at it. Take the removal of 1,115 children from parents involved in that child care scandal. Or take the judge who says: it can't be that someone who is completely disabled for the rest of his life gets a WIA allowance of €230 per month, because he hasn't worked a full year and someone happens to have changed the day's wage rules. Yeah, that was exactly what I said in all those pieces. So you're just gonna take that investigation seriously? We have a few problems where people really fall into a ravine for miles in social security. That is not what we mean here; they have no legal protection and they have completely lost confidence in the government. That is my point. Take that investigation seriously. That does not mean that I expect it all to be resolved tomorrow, but I was shocked that for ten years we could have allowed such a scandal to continue. Mr. Chairman. Then two. I've been in the Chamber for 18 years. Until about ten years ago, the SZW budget was really still the point where it was about right. It's the last budget. It's been turned around with LNV's today, but it's the last budget in the cycle. There was a reason. It is one of the most difficult and largest budgets. You start with small budgets, like the King's. Then everyone can talk about the yacht or a yacht. This is really about the serious money. That had to do with the fact that you're closest to the next year, that you have an idea of how it's going to be for the coming year and that you can make adjustments to that. I do not mean minor adjustments, such as a very commendable €300,000 amendment from the VVD Group, but adjustments to see if it is about right what is happening. I have said in the example calculations: people are sinking through the ice with this budget. We have the biggest fall in purchasing power, as far as we can see now, because it is really more uncertain than other years; I have to give that to the government. But we can really see that people are falling by percentage. Then you have someone who has said a lot about purchasing power fetishism and who also says to the left: those 0.1% do not see people, really do not. Only 3% to 4% or an energy bill that goes up on average by €30, but for some people by €100? They'll see. They can feel it. They'll feel like hell. I'd say do something about it. That is what this budget is for. It is not a general discussion about where we stand. It is not a quick way to say to a whole group of Dutch people: you will never get a benefit again, while you do live here; how to do that, I do not know. This is the first topic to be specifically addressed. That's why I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the statutory minimum wage increases by €24 per month on 1 January, but that the average energy bill, even with reduced taxes, is already rising by €28 and further shopping and other items are becoming more expensive;]] [[noting that people's disposable income is falling significantly in 2022 and that the government is not taking any action on it;]] [[noting that Germany is raising the statutory minimum wage to €12 next year, while in the Netherlands it is €9.96;]] [[noting that most electoral programmes contain an increase in the statutory minimum wage and that low-income people are not going to suffer tomorrow's long and slow cabinet formation;]] [[calls on the government to increase the minimum wage by 4% as an advance on the government agreement on 1 January in order to maintain purchasing power,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Den Haan, Mr Nijboer, Mr Maatoug, Mr Simons and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u278	Mr. Chairman. Then it's about purchasing power itself. We're gonna need an extra package. The Autumn note also shows that, especially as a result of increased inflation, the deficit is about 7 billion lower this year! - Oh, yeah. - Oh, yeah? There's a lot of extra taxes coming in. Rising inflation often comes in through taxes, especially if you don't make the tax discs a bit longer and don't raise the feet a bit. It's dropped to 5%. Excluding corona support, the deficit is only 1%. Inflation is causing the money to roll in, because the public suffers a loss of purchasing power. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government and the Ministry of SZW indicated on Princess Day that, given the formation of the Cabinet, they did not make any major proposals and sought a balanced purchasing power policy and indicated that everyone would have similar purchasing power;]] [[Considering that inflation has since increased from less than 2% to 5.6% and that the latest government figures show significant loss of purchasing power for each group in 2022, while the economy is growing rapidly;]] [[Calls on the Government to submit a letter of amendment which reaches the above-mentioned balanced purchasing power policy, with the retention of the bank's purchasing power, as from 1 January 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Den Haan, Mr Nijboer, Mr Maatoug, Mr Simons and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XV-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u279	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u280	Thanks to Mr Omtzigt. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. After consulting the Registry in plenary, I wanted to do the following. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs half an hour to provide an answer and appreciation to the more than 40 motions that have just been tabled by you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u281	I'll suspend for about half an hour. Sorry, I'm not suspending, but we're going to vote. The answer will then be given by the Secretary of State. I'll suspend for a few moments. Then we'll vote. Then I'll see you again for the Secretary of State's term.
