ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the merger of the municipalities of Landerd and Uden, Kamerstuk 35619, the merger of the municipalities of Boxmeer, Cuijck, Mill and Sint Hubert and Sint Anthonis, Kamerstuk 35620, the merger of the municipalities of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk, Kamerstuk 35621, the reclassification of the municipalities of Beemster and Purmerend, Kamerstuk 35622, and the reclassification of the municipalities of Amsterdam and Weesp, Kamerstuk 35623. I would like to welcome all the spokesmen. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Raak as the first speaker on behalf of the SP Group. Is this your last debate? I think you say that every week. Then we'll say goodbye and you'll come back anyway. Mr. Van Raak, what exactly is going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u3	I think this is the last one, but that's up to the Chamber. Because although we have recesses, there is nothing planned yet, but I do not rule out the possibility of planning this recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u4	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u5	So I don't know, Mr. Chairman. I stand here every week in ignorance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u6	Well, good to see you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u8	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u9	Suppose I sell the Minister's house without asking her anything. How would she feel about that? That's actually my first question. Since I've been a public representative, I've done 85 reclassifications! 137 municipalities have been dissolved. That is more than a third of all municipalities in the Netherlands. They've been lifted. Gone! That's the people's house, but never, almost never, people have been asked anything. I can tell something's changing on the one hand. Today, more and more municipalities choose to ask for something from the population. But I also see that the train of reclassifications is permeating. I also see that that moves to 100,000 people per city. That was immediately removed from the table in the previous cabinet, Rutte II, but is now again on the table as a sort of secret agenda. Let me go over something. Landerd and Uden must be Maashorst. All the surrounding municipalities are angry about that name and disagree. There's Schaijk, there's Reek. And yes, this time people have been able to express their opinion. They were clear: in Schaijk and Reek they want to be with Oss. I get that. Oss is a good town. But you can't. Those people can't go to Oss. Why can't they go to Oss? Because the new municipality of Maashorst won't get enough people. It doesn't go to the 100,000 enough. So scale is more important than people's opinion. Let's take a look at Heerhugowaard and Langedijk. We have the same problem there. Saint Pancras and Koedijk do not want. Now people are asking a question. They say, "No, yes, if we have to rethink it with all the violence, let's go to Alkmaar, because that's right around the corner." In fact, at Koedijk half of the double village is already in Alkmaar, but that is not done. Then what's the argument? The argument is: if we make a new municipality of Dijk and Waard, by the way, it has a very nice name, and it doesn't have enough inhabitants. It's got to have enough residents. That's the criterion. That is a quantitative criterion, not a qualitative one. Sometimes I have to laugh a little weeping at those rearrangements. Then a whole framework has been created with all kinds of criteria. One of these criteria is 'internal cohesion'. If there is to be a new municipality, those municipalities must have internal coherence. How does it work in such a ministry? For example, you have Beemster and Purmerend. The chairman may know it: the Beemster is a beautiful old polder landscape, world heritage, and Purmerend is also beautiful, but still an overflow municipality, a new building municipality. Well, if two municipalities in the Netherlands really have nothing to do with each other, it is Beemster and Purmerend. Then, of course, the question is asked about the criteria and internal cohesion. The minister says: yes, there is internal cohesion, because these municipalities are complementary to each other. They're so different that it's good that they're together, because then... Yeah, seriously! Then you don't have a criterion anymore, do you? Why do you make criteria when you deal with them like that? That's bullshit, isn't it? That's bullshit, isn't it? Surely the Minister himself must understand that that is not possible? Boxmeer, Cuijk, Mill and Sint Hubert, and Sint Anthonis should become the Land of Cuijk: 29 cores, towards 80,000 inhabitants. It's heading back towards that 100,000. It all has to go that way. Mill and Sint Hubert held a population consultation. The people there say, "Let's be in that new church." I like it when they want to. Then you ask the people. But I do notice that today is the 11th. On 17 March there are not only Lower House elections, but there is also a referendum in Grave. If a referendum is held in a municipality, I would find it strange if the House of Representatives decided before that referendum that the municipality would be dissolved, whether or not it would be added or not, whether or not it would be part of a new municipality. Can the Minister explain why we should, with all due force, decide on this before the recess today? Why do we have to decide on this before the elections, when there is a referendum in Grave on 17 March? What's the logic? Why does it have to be today? Why do we have to do all this now and with steam and boiling water? Dan Amsterdam and Weesp. Weesp I have seen many times in this reclassification circus. It's been on the table a lot, but others didn't want it. I remember that Bussum was particularly opposed to Weesp becoming part of the municipality of Gooise Meren. A referendum was held there too. The choice was: Amsterdam or the Gooise Lakes. Weesp said that they would rather be part of Amsterdam. They had previously been refused by that other municipality, so that was not so attractive to them. I wonder why a city... Because Weesp is a city. I have often experienced villages being added to something, but we are now in a situation where it is a city. Weesp is a city. There are more than 20,000 people living there and it has a care area. It is located near Amsterdam, but it is still a city. We're already at the stage where we're going to merge cities. I live in Amsterdam. If I were to take a nice bike route to Weesp, I would first pass Duivendrecht in Ouder-Amstel.That's a municipality.This is also a municipality.This is a municipality after which I come back to Amsterdam, in Weesp. That's weird. Then you're three municipalities down the road again in your congregation and then you haven't driven a lap. In Amsterdam it is also understood that it is weird when a city becomes part of your city two cities away. Together with the Minister, we have calculated that all people in Weesp may soon be able to fill one of the 45 seats in the city council of Amsterdam. Well, Weesp's interests will be well addressed in that city council, with barely one seat for the voters in Weesp. Anyway, then an administrative committee and a special district council and sub-city will be set up, as an extended local government. That is fine with me, because then the people in Weesp have something to say about a number of topics in their own city. But is that okay? We must, of course, also look at the quality of the laws here. Are you sure you can do that? Will Weesp be able to set up an administrative committee, which is elected and has its own budget? We are, of course, talking about extended local government, so this committee is formally part of the city council of Amsterdam. For the city council, elections have been held. Can you have your own elections for such a council commission, which gives it a different political color and a budget? I don't think the law will allow that. I would like the Minister to state whether he can do so within the law. And if that is not possible within the law, then I also find it strange to vote today on a reclassification that might be contrary to the law in the execution. What's with all the reclassifications? We're going back across the country today. We're going from Brabant to North Holland. I've seen over the past few years that these reclassifications take place by picking. So not an entire area suddenly reorganised, but a pick by pick, so that in an area a large municipality is created and there is pressure on the surrounding municipalities to scale up as well. This is all going towards the 100,000, of which we in the House of Representatives have said that we do not think that this is acceptable as a criterion. We do not consider 100 000 as a quantitative criterion acceptable. Yet that's exactly where we're going right now. I understand that's nice for drivers. And I get that that's nice for consultants who get stinking rich from all these new municipalities. I understand that this is a good thing for the government, for the cabinet, which can transfer all kinds of measures and difficult tasks to these municipalities. But perhaps it has gone wrong in my final minute. It started in 2000, of course, when the dualisation took place. And it ended with these decentralisations of new tasks: a very large, administrative process in which municipalities become increasingly an implementing organisation of the government and where the city council, the population, has less and less to tell about what is happening in those municipalities. It has become a consultant democracy instead of a popular democracy. So it bothers me what I have to do with all these reclassifications. In a number of cases, the public has been consulted and has agreed to it. I agree with that, but I would very much like to call on the Minister and this Chamber to stop this circus. Stop redecorating, stop that hidden agenda to make churches everywhere for 100,000 people and just go see what the population wants, what a community is. Is the community my village or the whole region? And if people say "that's how big my congregation is," what tasks can we do? So please do the task discussion first and not just a quantitative discussion about the number of members. I'm running out of time. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mr Bosma, who, as always, is very nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u11	Hey, now you're giving away my lines a little bit. That's not the point. Well, I can go now, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Ollongren's failed ministership drags and stumbles to the exit without glory and without effort. With a last desperate missionary breath, she destroys again a whole series of municipalities. It's goodbye in style, though. The very little Mrs Ollongren managed to achieve this cabinet period has consistently meant harming our democracy. Four years of Ollongren on Home Affairs is the story of four years of hidden unemployment with a service car. What have we received from her in recent years? Well, not bitter much. Okay, she abolished the referendum, she demolished 35 municipalities, there was the dead bill to stop obliging aldermen to live in their own congregation. And then there was another fight against the fake news. Those were the Russians; none of that turned out to be true. Well, let's get on with it, we've had another constitutional change, something to do with the United States General Assembly. It's so marginal that I've actually forgotten. That's the proceeds of four years of Ollongren in the mother department. That's all. But honestly, the less Ollongren does, the better. The better for our democracy in particular. We can only understand today's proposal if we understand how much Ollongren despises the people and hates our democracy. As deputy mayor of Amsterdam, she said: "The PVV must never enter the cabinet. The PVVs know no civilization and no culture. Should the PVV still rule, the Republic of Amsterdam must leave the Kingdom of the Netherlands." Please note: this was not a slip of the tongue after the end of a long interview after two wines. No, it was an important speech as the opening of the new year in the Concertgebouw. The deputy mayor of the capital of the Kingdom of the Netherlands states in a crucial speech that 15% to 20% of the Dutch population should be permanently excluded from the political system. If that's what you think, you're simply not a Democrat. Recently...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Bosma!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u13	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u14	The subject is the reclassification and merger of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u15	No, today's topic is democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u16	Yeah, but it's just about the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u17	No, it's about democracy today. I'll explain. Don't move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u18	I'm gonna sit down anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u19	As far as I'm concerned, as long as possible. Mr. Chairman. Recently, Ms Ollongren, as minister of all Dutchmen, as servant of the Crown, was still speaking out the Hannie Schaftlecture. Hannie Schaft is one of our most prominent resistance fighters. The memory of the war is something that binds all Dutch. However, the Minister chooses to use such an opportunity to put the PVVs, 1.5 million voters, back in the corner of the Nazis. Recently, D66 youngsters held a meeting at the Westerpark in Amsterdam. There, PVV's were referred to as fascists. My party wasn't allowed to participate in the election. And Mrs Kaag last got an hour and a half advertising time on state television. We saw her in the back seat of the service car. She was wondering, who are all these people? And she gave the answer herself: they want the strong man. Ollongren and her club must know a little about the consequences of such a stream of Nazi equations. And it's not all on its own. In the circles of left-wing liberal elites, we see an increasing aversion to democracy. I quoted earlier former colleague Boris van der Ham of D66, who comes to various meetings, not specifically from D66, where more and more aversion detects democracy. Informal and at the bar it's all nice and nice, but it only leads to the wrong results: Brexit, Trump, Wilders. That's a broad-minded sentiment. That's why the referendum had to be broken. That's why there's this aversion against what's called fake news. That's why under a D66 minister library books are destroyed if Black Piet is in it. That's why D66-Room member Kees Verhoeven cheers when Trump is removed from Twitter. Hooray for censorship! It all fits in with the erosion of democracy. It all fits in with the erosion of democracy. And today's proposals fit in there too. Why do all these municipalities have to leave anyway? After the war, 9 million Dutch had 1,000 municipalities. Now the Netherlands has 17 million inhabitants and 380 municipalities, which are becoming fewer and fewer. From an average of 3,000 inhabitants per municipality we went to an average of 45,000. And, yeah, we're just moving up to an average of 100,000 inhabitants per municipality. Why? No one really knows. There is a faith, an irrational belief, called "power of government." As municipalities grow, they seem to have more of that. No one who explains that and no one who defines what that is! There are also strange criteria such as internal cohesion. That must be the result of sweeping all kinds of municipalities together. With the farewell colleague Van Raak, I have to laugh at that. In the end, there is no justification whatsoever for this mega operation, no justification whatsoever and no argument. There is no empirical basis. There's no endgame either. It goes on and on. Municipalities will continue to merge for decades until the Netherlands is one large municipality. After research by COELO, a research office for local authorities in Groningen, it was already concluded in 2013 that public expenditure after the reclassifications did not decrease. It does not improve municipal facilities and does not increase the attractiveness of the municipality. It's running back early. There are disadvantages, as Professor Voermans describes: less confidence in politics, citizens often don't want it, the recognition of the municipality decreases, municipal politicians are weaker, they face professional politicians who have much more money and many more consultants etc. Let us look back at the municipal reclassification that took place recently, at the beginning of this cabinet period: the 35 municipalities that destroyed Mrs Ollongren. Municipalities often look at plans, at things in the future, but they rarely look back at how these plans have all worked out. Madam President, I am taking you to the beautiful Haren in Groningen, just under the smoke of the city of Groningen. A beautiful village! It has the highest percentage of D66 voters in the Netherlands. Nowhere does D66 achieve as many voters as in beautiful Haren. All those judges, district attorneys, college bobos or senior officials all vote good D66. But the people in that village acted fiercely against the plans to add that village to the city of Groningen. They already saw the mood. We went there with the Home Affairs Commission. We drove around by bus: halls full of angry people! Haren didn't want to join Groningen. Did D66 listen to his own constituents, to the members? You know, Chairman, D66 is a member party. Those people pay contributions, and that suggests they're being listened to. The citizens didn't want it, but the party was adamant. Ollongren was adamant. Anyway, Haren had to be destroyed as a municipality. Because according to Deputy States and the Minister, Haren didn't have any authority there. An annexation would be great. But, as Mrs Ollongren said here in the debate, there are also many guarantees. For example, there is a real administrative agreement in which the municipality of Groningen is going to solemnly promise things. Here, in this debate, the PVV already stated that the entire administrative agreement has no value whatsoever. You can write it in the air or on the beach. It doesn't matter. Mr. Chairman. How'd it go? Haren has now been wiped out at Groningen and today we can present the first results: tourism tax increased, fee increased, i.e. twice as high as 18%, which for some houses amounts to + 44% of the total and the IZB of the non-housings, so for entrepreneurs, is 25% more. New are also precario rights and dog tax. Bello costs €129; it seems to be the most expensive Bello's in the Netherlands. Increased are the rental of the sports fields and the sports accommodations. The residents are angry about the clumsy communication. The great Groningen often overlooks Haren. There's less participation. The way of waste separation has changed and costs €300 extra. The board agreement also said that it wouldn't happen. The green is poorly maintained. When the street lights are broken, it sometimes takes months for them to be fixed. And there is a lot of snow because of global warming, so: the policy of scattering. There is significantly less sprouting and even less sprouting in Haren than in Groningen. Mr. Chairman. And quite topical this morning I was standing at the kiosk early this morning, the Dagblad van het Noorden today has an opinion article that says: "The open meadows between Groningen and Haren have never been filled in like this. In the past, the Harenian politics, which was opposed to Mordicus, went against this. But now that the municipalities are merged, this place should become the next city expansion." The green space at Haren, 6, 7, 8, 9 kilometers, is thus cozyly completed, because the municipality of Haren is kaltgestellt. People can't help it anymore. That's gonna be one cozy new building neighborhood over there. The board agreement said this wouldn't happen. And it will. In short, the residents say: we are now paying much more for much less. Haren has become the flap-tap of Groningen. Groningen is on the list of financially poor municipalities almost at the bottom. The College of Groningen is mainly concerned with spending a lot of money on the so-called sustainability, on the climate. They're going to adjust the temperature on Earth. After all, picking up the garbage is a lot less important if you're saving the world. Haren is as powerless within Groningen as the Netherlands within the European Union. That's why D66 does this to make people powerless. They can then build up the whole of the Netherlands with asylum seekers' centres, biomass plants and windmills. Don't you see, citizen, what's going on here? This is not about Purmerend or Heerhugowaard, it is about our democracy. The PVV is against all these reclassifications. We believe that a local referendum should be held everywhere in order to proceed to a possible referendum. That didn't happen. The exception is Mill and Sint Hubert, but that was only about its own core. That is why my group will vote against it. There has been a referendum in Weesp. And where did the people get to choose from in that referendum? Well: Do you want to join Amsterdam or at Gooise Meren? They weren't allowed to choose the opportunity to just remain independent. The beautiful Weesp will now be eaten up and annexed by Amsterdam. Just as Haren must bleed for the Green Khmer department of Groningen, the rich Weesp may bleed for the climate-socialist world improvers of the Stopera, the town hall of the left-wing hobbyists. Here too we see the criterion of 'internal cohesion'. If you go from Amsterdam to Weesp, you go through a number of other municipalities. What's the connection if you don't even grow together? But Amsterdam is hungry for the tasty bite called Weesp. At the municipality of Amsterdam, 30% of the functions are reserved for non-whites. White people are eliminated as much as possible and prefer to skip promotions, or they are not accepted. Once Amsterdam became an anti-apartheid city, because jobs on the basis of skin color could not at all, but now they are doing exactly the same. In the Home Affairs budget, D66 reported "too many white faces" to the government. Art subsidies in the capital are distributed on the basis of race. You have to sign political statements, otherwise you won't get any money. Art institutions must produce zero measurement and map the number of whites. That must then be reduced. All museums in Amsterdam have been taken over by politically correct people. Officials in Amsterdam receive indoctrination courses to learn to use their politically correct language: no longer "fathers and mothers" but "parents," no longer "born as a girl" but "seen as a girl at birth." All that left-wing shit's getting to Weesp now. You'll only be a civil servant in Weesp and have worked there for 20 years. You'll have a problem if you're white; maybe it's your whole family. Then come the red guard of Femke Halsema and you can write that promotion on your stomach. The idea that your son or daughter can work at that church is also quickly getting smaller: white people do not wish for it. Why isn't Weesp protecting her civil servants? Why is there no opt-out against urban anti-white racism? Why are these civil servants being thrown in front of the lions? I remember the entrance of Saint Nicholas in Weesp. That was beautiful. Weesp is a beautiful, beautiful city. And then on such a very large ship Saint Nicholas enters with dozens of Black Piets. I thought: look at this, this is the village of Asterix and Obelix that simply resists the left-wing wailing and the left-wing terror, because Black Piet can still be there. Well, when Amsterdam is in charge, it's all gonna be a thing of the past. Of course there is a cloth for bleeding to keep the people sweet. Like that board agreement in Haren, there's going to be a real board. What the hell is that? What does he have to say? No one knows that. It is very simple with that board of directors, because we have seen such things in many places in the Netherlands. In a few years' time it will simply be cut off by the red guard of the Stopera, the city hall of Amsterdam, because the money is badly needed to save the climate. If the left-wing idealists can choose between saving polar bears and the citizens of Weesp, I know who wins. The resistance is now from the CDA. That's what the mood's all about. I quote: "Within the CDA Weesp there is the conviction that a merger between Weesp and Amsterdam is making a historic mistake." The Weesper CDA fears that it will be the first step towards an even greater annexation with surrounding municipalities: Gooi en Vechtstreek, Zaanstad, Haarlemmermeer et cetera. Look, this is exactly what's going on. People in the country just understand what's going on. A few more months, as far as I'm concerned, a few days, and then Ollongren will for the last time close the door behind him from the Ministry of the Interior. When she flies away and looks back, she sees the smoking ruins of our democracy in the banana monarchy. With a smug smile on the face, she'll look down on us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u20	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is strange to discuss these reclassifications with such an empty gallery. As an employee, I remember bus loads coming this way to discuss the reclassifications. Mr. Chairman. Today we deal with no less than three municipal assemblies and two municipal reclassifications. Municipalities are the government that is closest to the people and which certainly have an increasingly important role to play in solving societal challenges at this time. Those great responsibilities also call for more administrative power. In the performance of the tasks assigned to municipalities, we see that common rules are increasingly being used. This is perhaps understandable administratively, because it makes it easier to adequately tackle these local tasks, but for each task a different arrangement is made and the result is a patchwork of super-municipal structures. And they are also democratically problematic, from the perspective of the city council but also from the perspective of citizens. This trend towards larger municipalities is therefore logical, but I say immediately: sometimes it may be necessary for good governance, but in itself it is rarely enough. This also requires a large financial basis, such as a more autonomous tax area for municipalities. These reclassifications can thus provide a solution, but both the reclassification process and the existence of geographically larger municipalities with many cores are not without democratic risks. As I see it, Mr van der Molen is already in the starting blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u22	I was only listening very carefully, but apparently that leads to some surprise for Mr Sneller. I do have a question for you. Mr Sneller pointed out that larger municipalities could also have democratic shortcomings. When I read the D66 program, it says: we are working towards a model of larger municipalities, even so large that they can replace the provinces at some point. With all the criticism that has already sounded about this endless scaling-up, my question is whether Mr Snelter can explain what idea is behind this. Because those very large municipalities that are going to replace provinces, you also see problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u23	And you weren't going to ask this question, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u24	I would have done that at a later date, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u25	Perhaps at the time when I had come to this point in my speech. But then let me bring it forward. I think that a lot of the parties that have criticized actually want to organize a lot of things nationwide and not give municipalities that responsibility. Mr Van Raak rightly said in previous debates that municipalities seem to have become a kind of implementing organisation of the government. As a former alderman and councilman, Mr Van der Molen also knows what that is about. That is precisely why we need to place more powers, more responsibilities and more freedom of policy there so that it can become a full democracy, but to be able to decentralise those responsibilities there is some power of government at local level. It is not a quantitative criterion, as Mr Van Raak said in his term, but it is a question of having a certain size so that you can carry out those tasks. That's the idea behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr Van Raak has also indicated this in his contribution. And now he looks surprised again that I'm referring to him, but it's really not the first time. You yourself pointed out that it gave rise to democratic bottlenecks. I agree with you from the CDA that you prefer to organise tasks as close to the citizen as possible, but if municipalities are so huge that not even a third of the population shows up to vote for a city council, then we've lost something instead of winning something at local level. How does Mr Sneller view this? His point was that there were democratic bottlenecks when these municipalities became large.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u27	What I said was democratic risks. I simply see that in some municipalities that have been organised in local democracy very differently and that much more serious work is being done on core policy, decentralisation policy, village councils, popular consultation and participation processes. In my view, that is independent of how large that municipality is. I think Mr Van der Molen will agree with me that some municipalities take that more seriously and that there are a lot of opportunities there. For example, the Minister's Thorbecke letter has also provided incentives for municipalities to work with it. In the reclassification proposals that are now before us, I see a lot of such ambitions that need to be fulfilled; I fully agree with Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u28	There is so many references to what I would find that I thought: maybe I can say what I found myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u29	I think that's very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u30	Yeah, people know that, too. A community should also have political representation. You have to ask people first: what is your community? That could be the village, that could be the city, that could be the whole province, but ask people: what is the local community for you? It must be translated politically. That could be 100,000 people. It could also be 1,000 people or 10,000. Then you're going to find out which tasks fit in with that. That is what Mr Van Raak meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u31	Okay, well, then that's made clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u32	Well, I won't interrupt him, but... I have a group of 1,000 people. I ask: what community do you belong to? These 1,000 people are geographically concentrated. 55% say "my community is X" and 45% say "my community is Y." It's much more colorful than that. How are we going to put on one administrative model that is consistent with that? That's just a utopia that I don't think can work. That is why I feel much more in favour of the line expressed in the various notes on the report we are discussing today, namely that the administrative division can also be quite separate from a cultural identity. Look at the municipality of The Hague, where I have been on the council and where the administrative layout is the same for everyone, but there is really a big difference between Benoordenhout and Loosduinen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u33	D66 understands a lot of things little, but above all of community spirit. What a community is is not in the DNA of the surfboard liberals of D66. A community can define itself. And no, of course you don't get one governance system. No, no! We're not in some kind of totalitarian country. We don't have one governance system that we're going to roll out of The Hague across the country. We're gonna find out which tasks fit in with that. In the past, by the way, the Chamber has already adopted a motion from me and Mr Heijnen of the Labour Party, who has been a local director in The Hague, to see how this can be done and how we can organise it. The Minister didn't do anything about it. The Home Office didn't do anything about it. In the end, the entire local government has become not a celebration of the people's representatives, but of the consultants. They are stinkingly rich with all these reclassifications, all these decentralisations, all these dualisations. They send bills and never solve a problem. People just don't recognize their local government anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr Van Raak is taking his surfboard somewhere else, I think. Mr. Chairman. The initiative for reorganisation lies with the municipalities. That is the starting point. Next, every layer of government up there has to make a more marginal assessment of whether that has gone well. This also fits in with the autonomy of the various levels of government we have now organized in the house of Thorbecke. That assessment has already been referred to; I will not say who is responsible for support, governance, internal cohesion and regional cohesion. Especially the aspect of acceptance is, of course, ambiguous or at least multidimensional, because it is about local government, it is about regional and it is about social acceptance. The cabinet prefers reclassification proposals which can count on the largest possible majority of residents and the support of all the local authorities involved. But, according to the policy framework, this does not mean that unanimity among municipal authorities or support under a majority of residents is always required. Especially in the case of resistance in a particular core, which is once again my quote 'in a somewhat larger municipality', which in numbers belongs to a city council but also to a population consultation by definition to the minority, I think it is more a question of how to do justice to the minority than of whether there is sec support for the majority. I would ask the Minister to consider this when she sees these reclassification proposals. All in all, it is a rather nuanced interplay between different criteria. Towards the end, the Chamber will have its turn, while a long and sometimes emotional process has preceded it. In doing so, we are asked, on the one hand, to respect local considerations, no matter how you see them, and, on the other hand, to be a co-legislator in a formal sense with all the rights and obligations associated with them. Mr. Chairman. I've come to the specific reclassifications. I have no further comments about Amsterdam and Weesp, but also about Beemster and Purmerend. I have a number of questions about the other three. First, the merger of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk. What we see here, especially from the centre of Koedijk, is that the centre of gravity of that municipality is moving further and further east, while its own orientation remains the same. The geographical location remains the same, of course, and it is more south-oriented. There are a number of initiatives for greater regional cooperation, including cross-border cooperation, for the practical problems encountered by municipalities. My question to the Minister is: how is this cooperation going to work and how will it continue to support it in the coming years? At the merger of Landerd and Uden we see something similar, but quite different. This is about the Schaijk core, where at least within the municipality of Landerd a minority represents. Depending on how you indicate the polls and the results of the referendums there, there is also a minority within the Schaijk core, or at least a serious minority. How has the Minister now weighed the representativeness of the action group, but also of the municipal results, the petitions and the referenda that have been held and, above all, of the substantive argument behind them? And what possibilities does it see for dealing with the substance of the objections in the years to come? Finally, the merger into the Land of Cuijk. Here we are dealing with the municipality of Grave, where a small majority of the smallest possible majority of the city council has always held off the boat for the reclassification, while the other municipalities just kept that door open. Now, reference has already been made to this, a deferred population consultation is being organised, the questioning of which also leads to discussion. Now it does not fit with the autonomy of municipalities that we demand a referendum or that we enforce what should be the question. In the meantime, however, there are the necessary financial and administrative problems there, which have worsened since the legislative proposal was tabled. Earlier in this cabinet period, the Minister also sent a letter to the Chamber on what possibilities there are to intervene and what responsibilities it has in it. What does she see as her task, within her powers and responsibilities, to get to work on this in the coming years, so that Grave can be involved in a reclassification next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u35	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Today we are discussing a number of reclassifications in one of the last meetings of this Chamber. It concerns three reclassifications in North Holland and two in North Brabant. A bill to reorganise may sound like a boring formality to some people. However, it is not. For the inhabitants of the municipalities that are being reorganised, a reclassification can have considerable practical and emotional consequences. Will the facilities stay up to date? Doesn't that mean the board's gonna be too far away? All legitimate questions that need to be properly weighed in a final decision, first at local level and then by parliament when a legislative proposal is submitted to us. Mr. Chairman. A number of residents in municipalities to be re-organised had a desire to speak with MPs in a hearing. Unfortunately, that hearing couldn't continue because of corona. From this point of view, I would like to thank the citizens who have taken the trouble to send their views to us as a Chamber. Mr. Chairman. For GroenLinks, municipal reclassifications should not take place because by definition municipalities need to be increased, as some time ago the idea has sometimes been. After all, large municipalities are not necessarily better at providing services to citizens. On the other hand, municipalities should not necessarily remain independent because they are independent. My group believes that it is necessary to look at the improvement of services to citizens and administrative power by reorganising them. In addition, it is important that there is support for the reclassification. The starting point is that the intention is to reorganise from below. This does not, of course, mean that every individual citizen has to agree. It does mean that there must be a comprehensive examination of whether the majority of the inhabitants of the municipalities concerned and the majorities in the various municipal councils can agree with the proposed reclassifications. Mr. Chairman. If we look with previous glasses at the present reclassifications, we can see that most processes to achieve a reclassification have gone well, but that there are still concerns about specific cores here and there. I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about this. My main concern is the merger of the municipalities of Landerd and Uden. Most inhabitants of these municipalities can, it seems, find themselves in this reclassification. Only we've received a lot of signals from the core Schaijk. Residents from this core have clearly indicated that they would much rather belong to the municipality of Oss, because they are much more oriented towards Oss in their daily lives. They also criticize the process of reclassification. GroenLinks understands the criticism of these residents. In the written round we asked a lot of questions about this. If I'm being honest, the Minister has not been able to convince us on this point. I would therefore like to ask the Minister once again to address both the criticism of the process and the substantive position of the inhabitants of Schaijk that they would like to be assigned to Oss. The question is, of course, why this merger of municipalities should take place in a rigid way. I am therefore considering, together with my colleague from the CDA, tabling an amendment to add Schaijk to Oss. Finally about this reclassification I have a question about the chosen name Maashorst. Not everyone in the region is happy with that. Will the Minister explain to us again why she thinks this name is a good choice? Mr. Chairman. My group also has a question about the reclassification of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk. We understand that a merger of these two municipalities has been chosen. We would ask the Minister to look again at the concerns in the cores of Koedijk and St Pancras. Some of the inhabitants of these villages would prefer their villages to be joined to Alkmaar. How does the Minister view the concerns of these people? Mr. Chairman. My group has no questions about the reclassifications of Purmerend and Beemster and of Amsterdam and Weesp. We found the legislative proposals, the explanatory statements and the written reply of the Minister clear and convincing in this area. Finally, the reclassification leading to the new municipality of Land van Cuijk. The municipality of Grave is not involved in this reclassification, although this would have been possible in terms of local context. During the drafting of the legislative proposal for a reclassification, however, major concerns have arisen about the financial situation of this municipality. The municipality of Grave was even placed under preventive financial supervision on 1 January 2021. The government writes that it has also put pressure on the service agreement between Grave and the new municipality of Land van Cuijk, which has been drawn up to work closely together. This service agreement is important to ensure the continuity of the services provided to residents, which was first secured within the administrative merger organisation of Cuijk, Grave, Mill and Sint Hubert. My group is concerned about the consequences for the inhabitants of the municipality of Grave. Can the Minister respond to these concerns? What does the under-monitoring of services to the citizens of Grave mean? What possibilities does the Minister see for the service agreement to succeed? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u37	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u38	Mr. Chairman. Today there are again five different proposals for reclassification. One proposal is quite undisputed, as in the case of Beemster and Purmerend and the creation of Land van Cuijk. The other proposals raise many more questions, such as the reclassification of Landerd and Uden and the reclassification of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk. In those last two cases we see a pattern that we see in more reclassifications, also in the reclassifications we discussed earlier in this period. The more redefining is done, the weaker the internal cohesion of a municipality becomes. Villages then count their knots. The neighboring municipality with which they did not want to reorganise until then turns out to be a much more logical option, because the main town of the new municipality suddenly becomes farther away. Better a good neighbor than a distant friend. However, we see time and time again that municipalities have little message from such arguments of village interests and village dwellers. Mr. Chairman. As mentioned above, there seems to be broad support for the creation of the new municipality Land van Cuijk. The CDA Group can support this reclassification, also because in many places people have been asked how they see their future. In addition, there is an actual circumstance. The neighbouring municipality of Grave, which will form one municipal organisation with Land van Cuijk in the near future, has found itself in considerable financial and administrative difficulties. During the Lower House elections, the municipality holds a poll among residents, with the question of whether they want to reorganise. If the inhabitants of Grave and the surrounding villages choose to reorganise, then reclassification is only possible in five years, as we understand. I ask the Minister to deal with the situation in Grave. The municipality is under the financial supervision of the province. That's not a good sign. What's the march route if there's a reclassification after all? Can a municipality bear such an administrative and financial situation in the years leading to the reclassification? In short, is there a major problem here when dealing with the creation of the Land of Cuijk that we should do something with? Mr. Chairman. Municipalities are an independent government. Municipal councils are free to make choices about the desired form of reclassification. Everything's a part of it. For example, the size of the new municipality in terms of population determines the influence you have in a region. The number of inhabitants again depends on the amount of money they receive from the Municipal Fund. As a CDA group, we repeatedly see that municipalities therefore want to be reorganised simply, i.e.: everyone participates, or the party doesn't happen. In the case of the reclassification Landerd and Uden were informed by the municipality to residents that simply redefining would also be for their own good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr Van der Molen asked: is there a situation in the municipality of Grave that we have to deal with? I wonder what he means by that exactly. What's he thinking about what we should or can do?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mr Sneller also drew attention to this in his speech. I understand this very well. For me, the starting point is that we cannot add a municipality to a reclassification that is now before us in an afternoon. That does not seem to me to be appropriate administratively. For me, too, a poll is being organized. It's not undisputed. There's a lot of criticism about that, but I'm gonna leave that with the city. I therefore do not think it is appropriate to say as a Chamber that we should not wait and see. At the same time, I see a whole debate on the financial problems that are emerging there. I know that they form one common arrangement with Land van Cuijk, so all the officials are in it. My question is more: how does the Minister see it, because it does play a role. But I do not intend to take a municipality with me now, when it has not yet taken the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u41	That's clear. The following sentence of Mr Van der Molen was in fact: municipalities are independent. My question is: how does he see it himself, and as a CDA, for himself that we can operate from the Empire in this kind of operation at a municipality, given that autonomy? How far does Mr Van der Molen intend to take action there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u42	I think the role of the Minister is limited in that. I do not want to leave the point of Grave out of the question, because this is part of a very broad discussion in the area where we happen to be talking about some reclassifications today. That's why. I'd like to take care of the minister. There will probably be a period when a whole number of years will have to be covered. I think that the province and the municipal administration themselves will have a role to play in this. If I try to argue here that reclassifications should come from the bottom, then it would be very strange if I picked one out and said: the Minister should be more involved. But I'd like to talk to the Minister about it, because we can't pretend it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u44	As a CDA group, we repeatedly see that municipalities therefore want to be reorganised simply, i.e., everyone participates, or the party doesn't happen. In the case of the reclassification Landerd and Uden were informed by the municipality to residents that simply redefining would also be for their own good. I said this before, but I repeat it for the record. It was interesting. Again? No, that was another debate. The municipalities have the law on their side. The city council is rightly the head of the municipality. In the written reply, I see the Minister saying that the concept of'support area' is mainly based on administrative support. I would ask the Minister to go into this more closely, because municipalities themselves should also argue the basis for their choice. That too, I think, is part of the framework of reclassification that the Minister has drawn up. There is no description of how the inhabitants should be heard. Yet the political question is: who owns the village? Is the driver's village at the drawing table? Or is it the village of the inhabitants? I will not deny the legal reality, but the CDA Group chooses the latter. A municipality is more than an administrative unit. Mr. Chairman. In the case of the villages Schaijk and Reek, the reclassification of Landerd and Uden took a difficult course. In 60 views, residents questioned a simple reclassification. In 46 of these views it was stated that the Landerdse kern Schaijk should be merged with the municipality of Oss, in particular because of the orientation of this core on Oss. In the other fourteen views it was argued that the Landerdse core Reek should be merged with the municipality of Oss. 1,121 signatures were collected for a referendum on the reclassification, but the majority in the municipal councils of Landerd and Uden decided otherwise. In its reclassification framework, the Minister has rightly put the support for reclassifications first. The question I put to the Minister is: can the Minister ever decide anything other than to pass on a legislative proposal if there is a serious question of acceptance in cores, but the city council still agrees? For the division of the municipality of Landerd there was no administrative basis, since simple merger was a tough condition for both municipalities to go into municipal reclassification at all. How can support ever be seriously weighed if municipal councils have already made a tough condition? I ask the Minister, if support has become de facto a dead letter. Where can residents go when they find a closed door at city halls and town halls? If the ball is next to this Chamber, I'll ask the Minister. What were the main arguments for the Minister to agree to the reclassification despite the resistance in Schaijk? I would like to inform the Minister that Oss has been intertwined with a great deal and has always been a great deal. The CDA Group is therefore not convinced that residents have a fair chance of influencing their future, while they have a recognizable argument: if a village is focused on a different core in terms of education, economy, culture, care, sport, traffic and transport, do you have to explain, as a new municipality, years after the reclassification, why you do not belong to it? I am curious about the Minister's answer and I am considering an amendment to this point together with GroenLinks. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u45	Thank you. Mr Van Raak has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u46	I have a question and a compliment to Mr Van der Molen. For many years I have asked CDA spokesmen: "Who is the boss in the municipalities? Whose church is it? From the administration or from the population?" I was always told by the CDA: the board, the aldermen, the council members. Now Mr Van der Molen says: no, it is the people. I like the re-bronning within the CDA when it comes to local democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u47	So much for the compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u48	I am also extremely pleased with the amendment that is being tabled. I'm definitely gonna back that up. Schaijk bij Oss: very nice. But of course we also have a new problem with Sint Pancras and Koedijk. Koedijk wants to join Alkmaar and not the new municipality of Dijk and Waard. That's the same kind of situation. Is the CDA going to make an amendment to that effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u49	I have focused my input on this particular point, because we want to set it up. I understand in the preparation for this debate that other colleagues will speak about the other reclassifications. It's always a difficult trade-off. The question is also exactly what the Lower House can do at the end of the process. In any case, I have felt so much groundwork in the discussions and contacts that I am now referring to this in my speech. I also find these other discussions interesting, even when it comes to Amsterdam and Weesp and other situations. But I wanted to choose for this, because I noticed that this kind of discussion plays on a lot of reclassifications and sometimes is something else. I think that the Chamber should be reluctant in that respect. Then indeed an amendment goes one step further, but I try to peel it off carefully. I really need to feel like there's a lot of ground under here and that after the reclassifications there are no more choices locally. Then perhaps I find it lying on the road to do something about that in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Snoeren on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing five legislative proposals to make twelve municipalities five. When I took over this portfolio from Mr Van den Bosch about five months ago, he told me: go to all those reclassification municipalities, go into the rooms where the supporters and opponents meet, listen to the hearings and get on that bus to see what's going on. All the corona measures have failed to do so, but I have been approached by many inhabitants of these municipalities and also by administrators and associations of interests. They shared their concerns with me and made suggestions. There are concerns about whether the football club or the carnival association will still exist. Isn't it all getting more expensive? Isn't it gonna get any further away from us? So we have to make a choice here, without all those beautiful rooms where we hear those supporters and opponents talking about their passion for a village or city. And we need to be able to explain why we're making those choices. The VVD is in favour of a reclassification from the bottom. We are assessing these legislative proposals in particular in this way. We therefore assess whether the reclassification enjoys administrative and social support in the relevant municipality and whether there is a positive opinion from the province and whether there is regional and internal cohesion. Mr. Chairman. This was my introductory cube. I learned that everything is done in cubes here, so I still have a North Holland block, a Brabants block and a closing block.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u52	That's for directors only, unless you have ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u53	Ambition, chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u54	Then you can practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u55	I'm gonna start with the North Holland block first. Purmering and Beemster. That plan can count on our support. It is a slight merger that has been initiated from the bottom up and which can also count on large administrative and social support. There was some discussion about a slight merger or a reclassification, but it's good to see that those two municipalities have come out. I wish the inhabitants of Purmerend and Beemster every success. Mr. Chairman. Dan Amsterdam and Weesp. It is, I believe, more than 100 years ago that the last municipality wanted to be added to Amsterdam. I understand that of course; it is a predominantly left-wing municipality. And of course there is also a bit of concern about this lease, but fortunately there is a lot of ownership in Weesp and that problem about debt securities is not that big. I also hear positive stories from Weesp: I hear that Amsterdam is doing well, with respect for the municipality of Weesp and that there are good agreements about how that will work. Those appointments will be for three years. I ask the municipality of Amsterdam not to have that respect towards Weesp for three years, but for an indefinite period. I am also curious to hear the Minister's answer to Mr Van Raak's question about these district committees and their legitimacy. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to Dijk and Waard.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u56	On the previous point, Mr Van der Molen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u57	I would like to put a question to Mr Snoeren. There is always an argument for a reclassification, also at Amsterdam and Weesp. It is said that these two places fit very well together, because they both grow and they both have water. What did you think of that argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u58	I hear you say they both have water. Of course, that's not the best basis. I think it is important that the municipality of Weesp has looked very closely at who it wants to go with and with whom it can go together. Of course, attempts have been made with the municipality of Gooise Meren. That didn't work. But they really see from the local government that they want to merge with Amsterdam. The line of the VVD Group is in this too that we want reclassifications and aggregations to come from the bottom. That's what we're seeing here, with a large majority in local government.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u59	But a criterion in municipal reclassifications is internal coherence. Can the colleague of the VVD explain exactly what the internal coherence is between two municipalities that do not even border at all, namely Amsterdam and Weesp? What is internal cohesion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u60	It is not only the criterion of internal cohesion that is important. There are, of course, several criteria on the basis of which it is weighted. This can also be clearly read in the explanatory memorandum. We have great administrative and social support. We have taken an important step in cooperation, including between these municipalities. Internal cohesion has not been the most important part of this legislative proposal. Local administrators and also the population have chosen to join Amsterdam. From our point of view, this is a bottom-up merger. So we have to respect them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u61	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with Dijk and Waard. It concerns a reclassification of Langedijk and Heerhugowaard with a prominent role for the cores Sint Pancras and Koedijk. It is also a reclassification at the bottom with a positive council decision in both municipalities, but with limited social support in Sint Pancras and Koedijk. In terms of location Koedijk is actually already located in Alkmaar and also in terms of orientation. A study by the merged municipalities shows that a majority of respondents to the research in Koedijk and Sint Pancras find a reclassification of Heerhugowaard and Langedijk unacceptable. In Koedijk 55% of respondents say that and in Saint Pancras 62%. About half of the population have participated in this. It is a good thing that Langedijk started the core policy as a result. I hear positive stories on that and I hope that will pay off. I would also ask the Minister to comment on the state of play of this core policy. However, I think that an evaluation is appropriate here, because it is clear that there is no social support in these cores. Especially in view of the results of the study, the VVD Group believes that an evaluation should be carried out on the basis of social support. On the basis of this research and evaluation, a border correction may be made for the cores Koedijk and Sint Pancras. We shall therefore table a motion for that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Then the second block, the Brabant block. We'll start with Maashorst. A group from Schaijk would like to go to Oss instead of going with Uden. This bill does not require a shared reclassification; it simply adds these two municipalities together. It will then become the new municipality of Maashorst. As far as I am concerned, the explanatory memorandum of the legislative proposal is clear and guiding here. It concerns a reclassification of bottom with administrative support, a positive opinion from the province, improved governance, a review of public support through different sessions and civic participation, and a consultative referendum was held in 2015. It all seems to go very well through the policy framework, but there is still a disagreement as to how much social support there is. We have been approached by many people from Schaijk and Reek, and there has actually been only a limited majority in the city council of Landerd for the reclassification. I would ask the Minister once again to consider the validity of the consultative referendum. The turnout was 52%, and 51% of them claim to opt for reclassification with Uden and part of the municipality of Bernheze. In particular, that last part, part of the municipality of Bernheze, raises many questions. I would like to hear the Minister's response to that. Regional cohesion also plays a role here. Is it secure enough? The Council of State also makes a comment on regional cohesion. I ask the Minister how she sees the future in the region, particularly in connection with the municipality of Boekel and the municipality of Bernheze. Mr. Chairman. As a born and raised Brabander I know how important it is for Brabanders to preserve the identity of their village. That's what you notice in these reclassifications. The inhabitants are often much more proud of their village than of their municipality. That actually becomes clear this weekend. For this weekend Schaijk is no longer called Schaijk but Mosland, Reek no longer Reek but Kelerijk, and Uden no longer Uden but Knoerisrich. Carnival. It's nice to see that in those villages there will be a united celebration. Unfortunately not now because of corona measures, but yet I see consensus there again. I expect that, regardless of the outcome of the bill, these residents of the new Maashorst will join forces to make it a success, except once. Basically, nothing changes with those villages. Reek stays Reek, Schaijk stays Schaijk, but once a year during carnival it is a week different. Mr. Chairman. The last layout in the Brabants block is the Land of Cuijk. I've spoken to several drivers and residents there, and the energy is splashing from it. They really want to do business with the Land of Cuijk and that's good to see. We have asked a large number of critical questions, in particular about Grave's position, and whether it is possible to postpone. I was really asked by several administrators and residents: please let it continue. There also came out that there is a strong will to involve Grave at a later moment. Also from Grave I receive the same signals. But a lot of things have changed in Grave over the past year. Financial supervision, administrative there is even more unrest and there is a nice claim over the head. In the eyes of the VVD group, the municipality of Grave really lacks administrative and financial power to deliver independently the level of provision that can be requested today and in the future. The VVD is not convinced that an independent Grave could in the long term offer the residents the services they are entitled to. Adding Grave proactively to Cuijk now is, I think, administratively incorrect. Delay is also not an option, was indicated on our questions. How does the Minister now assess this situation? Can it continue and why wait until 1 January 2026? Or does the Minister see options to possibly speed up the process, at least after a positive statement by the inhabitants of Grave? Mr. Chairman. Then a closing block. All these municipalities have gone through a process in which municipalities have taken initiatives themselves. That's nice, sometimes a little forced by the financial situation, but often from the realization that social challenges can be carried out better together. That is an important starting point for my group, but it will not remain with these five reclassifications; there will be more. There will also be reclassifications initiated from the province. We have also seen an evaluation of the reclassification of the five-heiner countries, which shows that the minister should perhaps have played a more proactive role in this, particularly when it comes to the debate on the province. Scherpenzeel, a reclassification that is now playing and initiated from the province, also raises some questions. There a more proactive role of the Minister might be desirable in order to avoid an impasse. I ask the Minister whether the policy framework as it stands now offers sufficient scope to operate precisely on those more difficult reclassifications initiated from the province. Mr. Chairman. Besides, I wanted to leave it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u63	Thank you. First, Mr Sneller, then Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr Snoeren learns quickly, because he moves very quickly from one block to another. So I'm gonna go back two blocks to Koedijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u65	Two cubes, look!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u66	It seems that Mr Van den Bosch has transferred more than just the suggestion of entering the Chambers. Previously, there was also a motion from your colleague, Mr Van den Bosch, on a border correction after the reclassification. To do so, both municipalities must agree. From my contacts, however, Mr Snoeren has also had contacts. What signals do you have that such a border correction will indeed lead to something? I get the sentiment, but I'm so afraid we're gonna send a dead sparrow up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u67	That's a fair question. I have done quite a bit with the question of how we can ensure that this evaluation is carried out. I have indeed spoken with the various drivers in Alkmaar and Langendijk. They really care about that evaluation. In particular, Alkmaar wants to see, on the basis of the results, whether a border correction is an option to remove the dissatisfaction in the cores. In the end, therefore, more than after Mr Van den Bosch's previous motion, there seems to be a willingness to do so. I do not think it is up to the Chamber, as Mr Van der Molen proposes at Schaijk and Reek, to simply table an amendment to change that, because there is still an administrative decision underneath. But I do see an option, which I understand the province wants to cooperate with, to carry out an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u68	But this evaluation can only lead to a border correction if both municipalities agree that it is necessary. Mr Snoeren believes that this is a good legal provision in itself, but he expects it to come out. Do I read his speech correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u69	I want a proper evaluation. That could be an option, because there is a request from Alkmaar to apply a border correction. In this case it may be possible, but there will first have to be an evaluation underneath. On that basis, a choice can be made. And yes, the municipalities will have to agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr Van den Bosch has given a few things to Mr Snoeren, but I do not think there is one thing. On behalf of the CDA, I have made a plea here with Mr Van den Bosch for a very cautious role of provinces, while I hear Mr Snoeren say: yes, they can play a role. On top of that, he says: but even the Minister, then, we are going to have to step up a little bit more often. Will it really help, if we want to reduce the province, to put the minister in position?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u71	I am making this statement on the basis of the evaluation that is being carried out by the Five Lord countries. There's an option that, if there's disagreement and they don't come out, maybe the minister should have acted sooner. That's the way it can be with Scherpenzeel. I am not saying that we should, but I am just asking whether the Minister may need that space and whether it is sufficient in the policy framework if it is really necessary. Of course, that's got to come from the bottom, the municipalities are up to it. But we also see cases where municipalities don't want to reorganise, but the province does. Then everything goes a bit higher, but the Minister may play a role there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u72	Finally, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u73	Mr Snoeren's comparison between the five lord countries and what is now happening at Scherpenzeel and Barneveld is quite different. The problem with five lord countries arose not so much from the reclassification, but from the fact that they moved to another province. That became a mess. I can imagine the Empire helping. But is Mr Snoeren now making the point that if there is a discussion about whether or not to redeploy, there is a task for the Minister? Because that goes a lot further than trying to solve administrative problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u74	Once again, I would like to put the question to the Minister whether she sees a role for herself in this and whether the policy framework could then give more room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u75	Thank you, Mr. Snoeren. I now give the floor to Mr Krol. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u76	Madam President, you made me happy with Mr Van Raak's announcement. You said: is this your last debate? We don't know, because maybe we'll get together again in the next few days. But I agree with you that Mr Van Raak's contributions always come from his heart. At least that gives me great pleasure. I cannot help but say that everything he has said in his speech is words that I very much like to join. It is about democracy and how we deal with it. On this last day for the five-week spring and election recess...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u77	It's really unbelievable...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u78	... we're talking about the democracy of the residents of reclassification communities.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u79	Well, we're gonna talk through that to ruin the video. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u80	I'd like to make you comfortable, Mr. Chairman. Shall I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u81	I'm always comfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u82	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u83	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u84	Today we are talking about the inhabitants of reclassification municipalities. They are becoming less and less involved and the municipalities are becoming more and more administrative. That's a good word, but there's a lot of trouble behind it. It is poignant to read that the decisions we are discussing today would have been taken by a majority of the inhabitants. Those are the words that this Minister continues to maintain, despite the examples of the opposite in the past. Look at the reclassification of the municipality of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. In the meantime we are a few years further and everything that the Harenars feared has come out. Mr Bosma mentioned that as well. The burden has been increased and new burdens have been added. And as a blow to the flames, the municipality of Groningen plans to build a solar panel park in the valuable rural area on the Hondsrug and in the river valleys of the Hunze and the Drentsche Aa. That landscape is in fact part of a UNESCO list. Most of the inhabitants of Haren are abhorred by it. The governance agreement shall not be reorganised. How can the Minister insist that things have gone so well? Why does it stop an independent evaluation or an independent investigation into the course of events? When we look back at the merger of five lord countries, we see that a lot went wrong afterwards. Here, however, came an evaluation, following a motion by colleague Van der Molen. The conclusion was that the quality of the reclassification process was insufficient. History repeats itself: unclear processes, in which residents do not feel heard or insufficiently heard. This also applies to the reclassifications we are discussing today. After shady processes of participation, the inhabitants of Schaijk are dismissed with patronizing remarks such as "for their own good" or "the government is not aware that there would be significant resistance in Uden." There is only one solution for clarity, and that is a referendum in all the municipalities involved. We want the law to provide for a local referendum at each reclassification, with fixed rules that apply to each municipality. The outcome of that must be taken into account. This gives everyone a degree of clarity in advance and gives everyone the assurance that their voice was included in a transparent process. I've been looking into it for a while. It was Mr Van Raak, who tabled a motion on this matter as early as 2009. I just talked to him. I think we're going to table another similar motion today. A few words about the reclassification in general. Unfortunately, broader evaluations show that reclassifications pose more problems than solving them. Larger municipalities would be cheaper and better. The practice shows that the opposite is the case. The municipal government isn't getting cheaper. It doesn't get any better either. Moreover, the turnout at municipal elections is reduced after reclassification. And the ties between the inhabitants and the municipality are decreasing. The latter is a serious matter. After all, it is very important to nurture social cohesion in a community. The policy is aimed at increasing the number of municipalities. The decentralisation of important and difficult tasks is one of the reasons why this would be necessary, according to the cabinet. But decentralisation was a wrong choice. Larger municipalities can't do it either. What do I say? On the contrary, larger municipalities are facing serious problems in organising simple things such as domestic assistance for the elderly or the introduction of very complex youth care. We strive to preserve as many smaller municipalities as possible, to preserve one's own character. That is our Dutch diversity. We are in favour of preserving this diversity. Almost every village has its own character. One feels connected to one another. People are proud of the society they have built. That is our beautiful Netherlands and we must cherish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u85	I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u86	Mr. Chairman. As far as Mr Bosma's invitation is concerned, it is not going to work. Mr. Chairman. I do not know how colleagues are doing in preparing these kinds of dossiers. I don't want to say that I suffer from that, but what happens to me sometimes is that I make involuntary associations. Yes, each has its own associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u87	Tell me, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u88	The association of Mr Bosma is always well known. He also measures it widely. They're always interesting to hear, too. My association with this were two biblical concepts: repentance and conversion. Repentance and conversion are two key concepts in the Bible. If you have made mistakes, if you have done evil, then there is always the possibility to come to repentance and return to your steps and thus turn around and still move in the right direction. The honest story is of course that this has always been very difficult in personal life. I was wondering if you could have some kind of experience of repentance and conversion as an administrative body or apparatus. Could you repent and take a different route and thus improve the decisions that have been made? The question remains, however, what exactly is the role of the House of Representatives? Mr. Chairman. I would nevertheless like to make some efforts to work out these notions in the administrative sense. To this end, I am passing through four of the five legislative proposals before us. The fifth does not seem to call for much discussion, so we are not going to go into that. First of all, we ask for attention to be paid to the most difficult point in these legislative proposals: the position of the Schaijk core or Reek within the municipality of Landerd. It is understandable that the government is trying to put the criticism of the Action Committee in the right light. At the same time, it turns out that in 2018 as many as 56% of the Schaijkenaren indicated that they would prefer to belong to Oss and only 41% prefer to belong to Uden, all the more so because in 2015 in a referendum in Landerd only 19% appeared in favour of the proposed merger, while 51% was in favour of a merger involving Bernheze. How can we prevent an administrative trap in which justified criticism from the specific cores is not sufficiently reflected in the administrative structures at municipal level? The SGP likes to hear the Minister's views on this issue. And then just the real question: does our system offer real opportunities to correct looming errors, if local democracy is not in the best interest? We all know that Landerd is a reclassification municipality consisting of three cores that are relatively incoherent. At least, it's quite different. That coherence has a different kind of weight. But the cores themselves are closely interlinked and can also express certain preferences. If you acknowledge that in the process that led to that municipality, perhaps illogical choices have been made in the past, a kind of looming error, without pointing a finger by the way, should you not have at a later stage in that observation the space to perform recovery operations? The SGP would like to be further supported by the need to include the Schaijk core in the new municipality in order to form an administrative municipality. According to the government, this is desirable or necessary. It is indeed not possible to exclude, but the SGP does not consider that directly likely. Would it really make a difference if there are 50,000 or 57,000 inhabitants? What does that prove? Why does this prevent a more limited merger or a different merger? As far as the name of the intended municipality of Maashorst is concerned, it is also noisy. The government is not soft when it says that the objections have not been sufficiently weighed and that the process has been careless. It would be unsatisfactory if we left it to that conclusion. My question to the Minister is what is she going to do to implement and shape some sort of recovery operation? Then the Land of Cuijk. The position of the municipality of Grave has not improved since the submission of the bill. There is an accumulation of concerns and factors that weaken the position financially and administratively. The question is what position Grave should take in that whole process around the Land of Cuijk. I agree with the questions raised by my fellow Members because we had prepared them. Dan Dijk and Waard. Here too, for the sake of shortness, I agree with the questions about part of the Koedijk core, where there are clear preferences. I am very curious to hear the argument for a simple reclassification here too, especially when you realize that the distance to the administrative center of Heerhugowaard is getting bigger than is the case at Langedijk. Isn't that a reason to reconsider this simple reclassification and link it to a limited border correction? Then the position of Weesp, chairman. We were really surprised by that. At the moment you can say that Amsterdam-Zuidoost is a kind of nearby colony of the city of Amsterdam, but that is now going to change. By extending this area to the municipality of Weesp, it is more like that the municipality of Diemen becomes a kind of enclave within the Republic of Amsterdam; I take it involuntarily there I catch myself using a colleague's terminology. The government almost writes poetically that it is special that the municipality of Diemen will be surrounded by parts of Amsterdam. As if that in itself is such a blessing; you can put great doubts about that. But you could also say it a little flatter and just say that this creates a hamburger situation. That's a bit less poetic, but it's a more realistic picture. Should we not be asking here more seriously and in principle whether these situations are good and, as I am trying to say, are legal under the law? There is also a further southeastern movement from the municipality of Amsterdam into the rural area. Shouldn't you work from the government, from a clear vision, much more towards a healthy dynamic in the region, where that is possible? The urban area of the municipality of Amsterdam is surrounded by a strong ring of more rural areas, in which you invest as a provincial or national government. Mr President, first of all, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u89	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I want to suspend for half an hour.
