ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality (35925-XIV): Adoption of the budgetary statements of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the Animal Health Fund for 2022. I would ask Members to observe some rest. The same applies to Mrs Jorritsma, Mr Pijlman and Mr Backer. We would like to start the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What a special moment! I believe that I am the one who is the last person to have the debate here in this very special Chamber in this special year. I also assume that I will be the last of the present outgoing cabinet here. That is an honour I did not think would be mine in advance. I should also like to mention the most beautiful budget that can exist: the LNV Ministry budget. Several Members have asked me about this budget. It was also special to hear how many roles I was allocated in this debate: the role of the minister who is dealing with the current budget. That's right, but I was also addressed to my role as negotiator in a coalition agreement. And the questions that were asked almost suggested that the next minister was there as well. You will understand that I cannot anticipate what is going to happen, but you can address me in full on the budget that is here. I think it would be a good idea to have the debate on this. Since there are a clear number of speakers, I will reply in order of speakers. Some of the questions are a bit doubled with others; that also corresponds. Mrs Kluit, Mr Koffeman and Mr Karakus asked me, in the context of the problem of nitrogen, how I see the policy coming out. There is indeed a coalition agreement. I am not going to say anything about that for the rest, but I was asked how I see the approach that is needed to really take a step forward on that issue. We, as departments, have given this further thought last summer, just before and after, also because I thought it important that the possible successor should at least be able to continue with plans that have already been worked out, so that we can keep the pace. I actually hear that from a lot of Members: keep the pace. I'll share that with them. There are a number of principles which I think are very important in dealing with this problem of nitrogen. Firstly, it is an integral policy. By this I mean that if we are going to shape a nitrogen approach, or the new cabinet will continue to do so, it is important that a farmer does not get another visit on every issue. We have a task not only in the area of nitrogen, but also in the area of water and phosphate. We have biodiversity targets and climate targets. It would, I think, be really bad if each time, for every problem, someone would come again, so to speak, and tell us how else to do it. We often call it nitrogen policy, but I would say that it is an integral policy, in which we try to take the challenges that lie ahead in agriculture at once, so that we can really take a broader perspective. That brings me to my second point. There's a lot of talk about farmers stopping. That is what I hear in this debate. But my ambition has always been to ensure that farmers can continue. In my view, this is the perspective that we must continue to offer to farmers. Things will have to change. I'm not denying that either. But we are doing so in a way that farmers will be able to go through the next decade. I think there's an incredible need for that. So let us not only focus on everything that has to stop, but above all on everything that wants to go through, must and may go through. In addition, I would propose an area-oriented approach. The Netherlands is not large, but within the Netherlands there are still incredibly many differences, for example as regards the soil species, whether or not you are too close to Natura 200 sites, and water quality. These are all issues that play a part in the question of what is needed in an area. It is important, I think, to connect on the one hand with the unique features of an area, and there to see what is needed to achieve all the goals, but at the same time to take the input of the area itself. People live there. People work there. Farmers have their business there. Nature organisations know the area very well. As a government you set frameworks, but you should also take the input of that area with you when you can within those frameworks. So that's what I would support in shaping the sequel. In addition, we must also have inescapable policies. Targets are tough. We know that, because we have had court rulings, they have shown that we really have some steps to take and that those goals really need to be achieved. What we are doing must therefore be done within the legal framework and we must ensure that these goals are achieved. If all this works, there will also be more room for authorisation. Mr Karakus also pointed out that there was a need for strong impetus for the construction project. Of course, there are other things that you would like to make possible the granting of permission for, for example to achieve other legal goals. Let me give you the example of the windmills. This can also have an effect on licensing at some point. Then you can get into trouble with other goals again if you can't organize permission for this. Finally, you must also have the means to do so. That is a debate that I will come back to in a moment, to the questions raised by Mrs Kluit, among others: is there enough money in this budget to achieve all these goals? Well, I guess I'll just say, "No, I'm not." But I knew that at the time we were going to draw up this budget. Because it was a budget of a missionary cabinet. As you know, the cabinet in the Demissionary State must also be reluctant to make new policies and the corresponding means. But did we sit still in the meantime? No, because it is precisely in order to be able to provide sufficient resources for this approach that this is, of course, also included in the cabinet formation. In fact, before that I asked PBL and RIVM to pass on a number of scenarios, which included the principles that I have just mentioned here and which answered the question whether you could achieve the goals in this way or at least bring them very close. There were also similar amounts mentioned in it as they are now, fortunately, and I would add that they have landed in the coalition agreement. So are these funds already in this budget? No. Will these resources be available now? Of course, there will have to be good plans before that happens. It always is. Mrs Kluit's question then is whether this budget is not going to be able to paraphrase her words, because it is not yet in this year's budget. Then I'm gonna go sketch the trial after a cabinet formation. Please keep me in mind that I may not have the exact dates and the like for that. Of course, a new cabinet comes first with a start note. It sets out how the financial resources are used in a budget. Of course, not only does it apply to this budget, there are whole budgets, and I think you have also talked about the housing budget this afternoon, for which a lot of resources are made available in a coalition agreement, but which are not yet in the budget. This can be looked at in spring paper. Then you can see if resources will become available at that time, for example in the supplementary post at Finance, which can be transferred to a budget. There will have to be good plans underneath that. So I cannot anticipate that it will happen in this case. But it is not the case that a budget is by definition worthless if we do not include something in it now. There are always opportunities to do that. There'll have to be good plans underneath. I have just outlined that we have also prepared these plans, and with what principles we have done so, so that a possible successor of mine can get right on the ground and use the means at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u4	Thank you to the Minister for this way of sketching. I have, of course, been thinking about Mrs Jorritsma's comment and how I can ask the question differently. This is actually a good reason. My underlying question is: how is the cooperation between opposition and coalition going to take shape differently from what we have seen in recent years? I'll show you from my point of view. The coalition parties see a major problem with each other, the doors are closing, at some point there is white smoke, the doors open again and the opposition can give it its blessing or not. Just in case of very big...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u5	Mrs. Kluit, you're out of order. The next item is the budget for the year 2022 of the Ministry of Agriculture, and not the coalition's cooperation in a new cabinet. This is really a point of order: you are out of order, so I would ask you to stay within the order. Otherwise, we're not gonna make it tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u6	The essence of my question is, when are you in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u7	I'd be happy to answer that question. You are within the order when you ask a question that is short, first of all, and that is on the subject on the agenda. It is not on the agenda for the next four years of cooperation coalition. We are going to have general political reflections, after the government declaration, with the new cabinet. They were postponed at the request of the Chamber. Then these kinds of questions can undoubtedly be dealt with. Tonight we are talking to a outgoing minister solely about the budget for the year 2022. That was put on the agenda by me at the request of the committee, nothing but that. So that's what we're talking about. If you ask a question about that, you're in order. That is the answer to your question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u8	Does the Minister have any tips for us as opposition parties on how we could have helped over the past six months to get this budget more in line with the minister's previous plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u9	Compliment for your creativity!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u10	Sure! It is a very specific question. I don't think it's that... I think I have been one of the rulers who has laid down a law here that has been able to count on a broader basis than the coalition alone. I would like to add that this is also a bitter necessity, otherwise I will have no majority in this Chamber. But it is not the case that we have systematically excluded opposition parties in the past period. In fact, I've been trying to find that broader basis of support. The fact is that this budget is about a missionary cabinet. A outgoing cabinet also presupposes restraint with new policies. It is not a law of Medes and Persians, but it is very common to do so. But to myself, that didn't mean I sat on my hands. I think Mrs Kluit is referring to the point of money, when I hear her like that. Another amendment has been tabled in the House of Representatives. I didn't recommend that. That was also in a context where coalition negotiations took place. In order to make such a big claim to a new cabinet, as a outgoing cabinet, I do not think it is proper either. But I hope to convince Mrs Kluit that this does not mean that next year is a lost year. It depends on whether these plans can be implemented quickly. There are possibilities in a financial year to transfer these funds to the budget. If I may give a tip, because that is what Mrs Kluit is asking: I think it is good to have that debate in this Chamber quickly with the new ruler, who can explain how he or she thinks it is going to go on, because the issue is big, I share that. Anyway, it's your authority to request a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u11	This is indeed about the budget for 2022. In my input I also asked: what makes the difference? I compared the current budget with the new budget. Why should we adopt a new budget if we are not going to achieve the goals? You set a budget because of your goals. Otherwise, we can stick to the old budget. I do not see any financial progress there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u12	I hear the suggestion that there are hardly any resources in this budget for nature or for nitrogen. There are a lot more resources in it, including in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u13	No extra resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u14	Not the amount of resources proposed by Mr Karakus' group, for example, in the House of Representatives. I am trying to stress that these resources are indeed there with the coalition agreement. The plans are here. There are possibilities, including for this Chamber, to see if you can start using them earlier in the next financial year. On the contrary, let me put it this way: when you do not want this budget, for whatever reason, many current programmes become much more difficult. May I remind you that in recent years we have allocated 3 billion to nature programmes, such as the Nature Programme, the Nature Pact and all kinds of natural recovery measures? However, I would like to mention just one example. I will come to the specific purchase of livestock. There is almost 250 million in this budget for next year to do so. Should you consider not agreeing to the budget, which I hope will not be: that is not money that was already in the budget last year, all of which I hope will be using next year to achieve the objectives. The responsibility is wider than just to see if there is any extra money. There is money in this budget, and that is precisely what Mr Karakus's group, and he himself, attaches great importance to. I hope he will take that into account in his considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u15	Another clarifying question, otherwise I don't get it. We have the current budget and it contains policy issues and sets its objectives. If the proposed budget fails, the old budget will remain in force, so the policy for those objectives will simply be implemented. My point is: where is the difference in policy and implementation compared to the current budget? What are we gonna miss?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u16	I think I have just mentioned that there are all kinds of programmes underneath which will go through next year. When that budget is not approved for any reason, we will have to come back here again and again to get agreement on aspects relating to it. I called it the Nature Program. That's a big show. There's 3 billion in it until 2030. I make arrangements with the provinces about that, to spend that money too. That amount is there, that's right. But I will always have to come back here to agree with your Chamber whether or not I can use it, precisely for that purpose. You mentioned speed and you didn't want to delay on those aspects. If I have to keep coming back, or my successor, to ask permission here, then you can imagine that this is not conducive to the speed we hope to achieve in this area. But it is also true that I am not saying that this is a policy-rich budget; I stress that it is a budget of a missionary cabinet, which is reluctant with new policies, but does want to keep pace with the policies that have been put in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u17	Finally, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u18	Last question, Mr President. Could the Minister perhaps give us a look, as she was already doing, at how we can achieve an amending budget as soon as possible? That's the point. I have indicated that the ambitions are fine, but that they need to be translated and that they need to be deployed quickly. Can the Minister give us a look at how this works in practice and when we can expect an amending budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u19	I've explained a number of trials. Whether or not this is actually going to be the case is, of course, really up to the new cabinet. I stand here in the role of current minister. I'm just saying there's gonna be a start note from a new cabinet. It simply states how they intend to use the financial resources. At a time when there are well-developed plans underneath it, those funds that are in the supplementary post at Finance can also be transferred to a budget, in this case the budget of LNV. That debate could be held, for example, in the Spring paper. Whether that's going to happen is really up to a new cabinet. I find it complicated to anticipate that. But it is not that there are no more moments at all when you can use this money. In fact, you will see in the coalition agreement that there will be extra money in the budget for next year. Let me mention, for example, the NVWA. I think Mrs Kluit had a question about that. For example, for next year, the coalition agreement already provides for an additional 30 million for the NVWA. This will also have to be transferred to LNV's budget at some point. This can be done, for example, with the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u20	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u21	Let's see. I was with the answers for Mrs. Kluit. I think I have already given some answers to the questions she has asked. We just talked about opposition and coalition. She asked why I did not embrace the amendment tabled in the House of Representatives. She also asked about Schiphol. When will the Wnb permit be issued? What's the timeline for that? Views have been submitted on the authorisation submitted. The licence is therefore submitted. There are views on this. Those views are currently being assessed. We must do this very precisely, also in order to see which aspects are in it. As soon as that process is completed, it will become clear how the authorisation process will proceed. But I cannot anticipate when that is, because we simply have to do it very accurately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u22	I think it is important that this be clarified quickly, especially with the news that has come out. There are a lot of farmers in and around Schiphol which now think they should be bought out soon to provide Schiphol with a nature permit. That kind of uncertainty deserves to be rushed. Could the Minister perhaps hand it over to the new cabinet that this should lead to clarity in Q1 after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u23	I would put care on top of this, but where it can go together, we will of course do so. But I think care here is the most important thing. Let's see. Then Mrs Kluit also had a question about what she calls the instruments for nature problems. She specifically mentioned the instrument of expropriation and the right of first sale by municipalities. She specifically mentioned the Wvg, the Preferable Law Act municipalities. On the subject of expropriation, I shall come to Mr Berkhout's question as well, because he has, of course, asked a number of specific questions about this. I would also like to take you to what the situation is. Expropriation is an existing means. The procedure for this is laid down in the Expropriation Act. So it is not the case that this budget or other policy is based on something that is not right or that we ourselves are now giving substance to it. It is an existing instrument, which is heavily framed. It must really be based on projects or situations of national interest. That must also be justified. The Expropriation Act contains a very careful process that must be completed if you want to make use of it. Those affected will also have to be fully compensated. Those aspects are all in the law. So the question is not whether or not we use it; no, that law exists, it can be used. Are we gonna start with that? No, of course not. It's not like you're gonna go anywhere and say, "Hi, I'm here to organize the expropriation." That is a path that is very much ahead of it. I have just mentioned in the interruption to Mr Karakus the targeted buy-out. At the moment, we have a system of targeted buy-backs for farms that report themselves, who would like to stop themselves and ask whether this regulation can be quickly and neatly dealt with. At present there is so much demand for this targeted buy-back scheme that we have increased the budget for the first tranche. This already indicates that you will of course first take the steps to see if you can actually achieve all the goals on a voluntary basis. I just mentioned the area-based approach. For example, eight farmers in an area may say 'we can continue with this plan, we can achieve something that will give us a future', while a ninth farmer says: but I do not want this. Can it then stop anything, so that eight others, for example, cannot move forward? I think that requires a discussion where sometimes, if it really is going to stop everything that can really affect other farmers, you should also be able to consider whether you should go on another route there. But again, it is never the starting point of the discussion. You first look on a voluntary basis where you can go, but the instrument of expropriation as such is not something new. It exists, it is applied and it is even decided in the law. So even if you wanted to change something about that, it would not be through this budget, it should really be in the Expropriation Act itself, and it is not before today. Then there is Mrs Kluit's point about the right of first sale.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u24	Do I understand correctly that the Minister says: will we use this expropriation where necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u25	We will not use expropriation until all other means have not been effective. Then there is the question about the preferential right of municipalities. I do need to clarify something here, because the Favorite Law Act applies when the land of destination changes. That is a condition in the Wvg in order to be able to apply it. That can't be the case sometimes. For example, if you want to use agricultural land for agricultural land, for extravagant purposes. Then you can't, because you keep the same destination, just for being more extensive. In the Wvg it is decided that there really must be a change of function. That's why we're looking at the ground bench now. With the available resources released by the coalition agreement, or hopefully released, we can really take steps in that direction. In this way you can see if you can use all the space you need in some places and use it for other purposes. We really want to see how we can use this flexibility with Mrs Kluit, which is what I understand about Mrs Kluit. So you don't necessarily need the Wvg for that. In fact, for some situations it does not provide a basis either. I already got to the point of NVWA: why not next year? I'm not gonna come up with a plan in three months, I'm gonna tell Mrs. Kluit. But that seems to me to be something that you can also ask the successor, for example: how do you think the means available can be used? I think that's a fair question. Let me just say that I am personally pleased that those funds, which are structurally up to 100 million, will also be available, and that is also urgently needed. Then the point of the landscape elements. I am very pleased that they are finally included in the common agricultural policy. I've been trying for years to do this. Let me give you a sketch of this. At the time when there were landscape elements on their fields, this did not count equally with the hectare premiums. So it wasn't attractive for farmers to leave them, because you couldn't produce them and you couldn't get a refund for them either. It is precisely with the new CAP, on which I reached agreement with the House of Representatives last week on how we are going to implement it, that we made a point to be able to take these landscape elements with us, and even to finance their construction. Then you're really gonna take a big step to shape that. In March of this year I also received the Deltaplan Biodiversity Recovery on the landscape elements. We are now working on this. I just need to find my exact answer to that. Here's what I'm gonna say. We are still in the process of further shaping all kinds of practical aspects of this scheme, which were presented in the Delta Plan on Biodiversity Restoration. I had hoped that we could have done this sooner, but I think that in spring we can really update on how we stand in there and how we want to shape that further. But I personally think that we have really taken the biggest step in bringing it into the CAP. Then it can be co-financed and it is simply reimbursed, and in any case we will not punish it in that way if landscape elements are built. Then there is the question of the Seventh Action Programme. That's what Mrs. Kluit started with. She also ended with the point about the derogation. For the record, the seventh action programme does not need to be approved by Brussels. So we are presenting the Seventh Action Programme, which shows what steps we are taking to improve water quality in the Netherlands. In the meantime, the Commission is using the Seventh Action Programme to see whether it is sufficient to apply for a derogation. Mrs Kluit has already drawn conclusions from this, namely that it is not going to happen. That is not yet the case. I have always said that it is not self-evident that this derogation will be extended. But I made a deal with the Commissioner last week. He said: I know that there are ambitions in the Netherlands with regard to a new cabinet, but I have nothing on paper from which I can derive that. That was a valid point, because the coalition agreement had not yet been presented. I have agreed with him that a new ruler, once there is, will also have direct contact with the Commissioner. They can therefore discuss how the new plans of a new cabinet contribute to the objectives of, among other things, water quality, so that a derogation could be possible. So that conversation will, I think, take place somewhere in January. But it is not the case that some sort of definitive conclusion can already be drawn. Then I come to Mr Berkhout's questions. I have already gone into it a little bit, because he put the emphasis on what he calls forced expropriation. For the sake of clarity, there is no such thing as voluntary expropriation. Expropriation is expropriation. In the Expropriation Act, there is only one title, and that is expropriation. So that's not voluntary, or not forced; there's no difference. I think Mr Berkhout emphasizes this to say: we want the voluntary measures. I have just explained that we have various arrangements, just for the sake of voluntaryity. There is the targeted buy-in, a measure that has already been opened up, in which the provinces also have a major role to play, and companies that want to quit. But, on the other hand, provinces can also ask: are you interested in the scheme, yes or no? Soon I will come forward with a national termination measure. The internet consultation will open in January. This measure is not aimed at a particular location, but is opened up to farmers who want to quit. During the award we will see if this really has sufficient effect on the reduction of nitrogen and the achievement of the objectives in terms of water etc. If that is not the case and other companies do make a much greater contribution to it, then you are going to rank on it. But it's all done on a voluntary basis. So we are going to work a lot with voluntary schemes. But in such an area it can happen that you say to someone who really doesn't want to say: this ends so much, also for other farmers, and then it becomes so damaging to the rest, that we really will have to take other steps. But, again, that's very framed in that law, and then you get compensation. In that sense, it is not a new instrument. In the case of, for example, Space for the River, I mention only one programme, which was also applied at times when there was still a greater consideration and which could not be agreed in other ways. So I understand Mr Berkhout's thoughts. Start, that's what I hear him say, with all these voluntary arrangements. I can't rule out completely expropriation, if only because that law just exists. But it's not like we're gonna start now. Mr Berkhout also asked: if that nitrogen deposition has been reduced, how can we still have such a problem? He quoted me well. It is true that the deposition has decreased in recent years. But it is still too high for the amount of nitrogen in the soil and for the amount of nitrogen that a number of nature reserves can carry. I've used the image of the bathtub that fills up and starts running over at some point, quite often. Then you can turn the tap closer, but every drop that comes with it, let the bath overflow. That is also the case here. It's not like you just have to focus on nitrogen. The Planning Office for the Environment also stresses this. It says: you have to look at nitrogen but certainly also at, for example, nature improvement. That's why we both have these pillars in our program. If you do more in certain areas, then it can have a very positive effect on the strength, the strength of nature, which also makes it more resilient to any excess of nitrogen. You're looking for that combination of measures. That's what we're doing with the program now. Mr Berkhout also asked: can you promise that forced expropriation will be excluded? I have just explained how we deal with this: it will never be the starting point, but completely excluding it goes too far. Then I come to Mr Koffeman's questions. He says that current production is an unsustainable system. I am standing here, I think, in one of my days as this minister, but in one of the first debates I have had here, I said that we are running at a great many borders in the current way of production and that it is not sustainable in this way, so there really must be changes in agriculture. I think that Mr Koffeman and I may differ in the extent to which and the speed at which this transition is to take place, but that it cannot be sustained in this way was one of my first remarks when I started as a minister. He asked, "Where do I see the solution?" I have just outlined the steps for how I think we should tackle the problem of nitrogen. I hope that my successor will be able to continue the debate with your Chamber on the major tasks. It is a joint search for what is needed to ensure that farmers have sufficient earning capacity on the one hand and on the other hand they can do so in balance with nature and the environment. We often confess that I do so too, but it is incredibly difficult to shape that really very well because you need so many actors to do so. Mr Koffeman mentioned a number of actors, but it goes even further than that. This is also about consumers, about chains that we are in with all those parties and sometimes also about competition with the world market, which is one of them. It is still our expensive duty to keep looking together for those opportunities. Let me give you some kind of reflection on my last four years. I noticed there's not one button you can press for that. If it were that simple, I think we would have done and wanted to. Sometimes there have been times when I was looking for the best way to do that. I don't think there's one best way. I also think we should keep looking at what's working at the time, and sometimes you have to come back to your plans. I do believe that we all have a responsibility here to continue thinking with farmers and with nature organisations about how we can move forward in this debate, because if we do not, polarisation will be enormous, the solution will not come nearer and everyone will lose. That was my reflective moment just before Christmas, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u26	That calls for a response from Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u27	I agree with the Minister when it comes to one of her initial comments, namely that this system is not sustainable. But in my speech I have tried to point out that too often and too often this has certainly been not only in the minister's term of office, but also far ahead in the search for technical solutions. It looked for solutions such as "let's see if this works; we can evaluate this in five years'. Over the past decades, it has always been shown, also with the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, that this has not worked. My question is whether the Minister can reflect on how to speed this up without introducing a new measure that will take you five years to see if it works and then be disappointed with that measure. As regards our position on the world market and the influence of the world market on our position, I think the Minister must realise that we, as the world's second agricultural exporter, have a major influence on the world market. We dump our chicken wings in Africa, so African farmers cannot earn a living. In that sense, I would think that we are not only dependent on the world market, but are, above all, decisive on the world market. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u28	This in the context of the 2022 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u29	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u30	This is an important debate, so I very much agree with Mr Koffeman. Look, the Netherlands is a fertile delta. There are areas in the world where you can simply grow no or insufficient food for the population there. So I see the responsibility of the Netherlands not only to produce food for ourselves. Is it then a goal to be the world's second exporter? No, and I said that pretty quickly. I find that a very strange goal, because it is always a consequence of something and never something you strive for in yourself. You can be quite successful, and that's what he's often in trade for. Mr Koffeman knows that too. It's not just production. It's mostly because we're good traders. That's never been a goal in itself to me. I do not think it is a bad thing or something that we live in a fertile delta and we have the ability and techniques to produce high quality food. On the contrary, that is something to be very grateful for. At the same time, we have a single market in Europe. We have one market of goods and services, including these products. Of course, it is always a question of whether we, as Europe, can say together: these are the standards that need to be produced that we agree on in Europe. But what does it mean if a lot of products come from third countries that do not have these standards? I always find that a struggle in policy, I must say. We impose high demands on our farmers. They get them sometimes with pain and trouble. At the same time, they always ask me: how can I stop using that plant protection product, whereas food from a third country where it is not prohibited simply enters the market? I understand they're asking that. That is why I believe that we, as Europe, should take a stronger position on this, so that we can ensure that those farmers themselves hold a position within Europe. I think that, as a Dutch or European farmer, we should let him have a broader influence on those other countries. You can then say: these are our standards and we want to ensure that you are included. Then you can also have a positive impact on the world market. Let me put it this way. I believe that there are real opportunities there, but then we, as a Europe, must be able to act more strongly as one block in order to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u31	Yet it is true that Europe has turned its finger on us precisely because of the way in which we produce and our nitrogen problem has been created.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u32	On nitrogen, the Dutch judge whistled us back, not Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u33	Yes, but the derogation is always at risk because we seem to be failing to comply with the standards. The Minister can say something about that. I think it's important to note that your predecessor, Cees Veerman, has said that that system has failed. We are here in a fertile delta, but in that fertile delta we import more soy than anyone in the world. That soy is from former rainforest, so that has nothing to do with our fertile delta. We should be ashamed to exploit former rainforests for our soy consumption, for our livestock farming. I would ask the Minister to comment on that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u34	It seems as if Mr Koffeman and I are going to come a long way tonight, because I share with him that it should not be necessary for us to import soya from Brazil or anywhere else. That's the essence of why I started circular farming. How can we achieve a much lower level of cycle? Then there are many more possibilities. That is why we have set up our own protein strategy, not only for alternative proteins for direct consumption, but also for animal feed. In all these areas steps have been taken and, as far as I am concerned, many more steps have to be taken. Indeed, taking incredible quantities of soya scrap to Europe to use it here while there are a lot of opportunities to use residual streams or other alternative proteins, I simply do not think it is desirable for many reasons. However, it is not the case that we can now say 'we do not do that anymore'. In fact, soya has become quite a geopolitical resource in recent years, especially for the previous American President, who used it simply geopolitically. Then you see that I often tell you how vulnerable you become, because you become dependent on a system where there are great geopolitical interests. For example, the price of food sometimes depends on the political will or unwillingness of certain countries to deal with it. For this reason, too, it would be really important for us to be able to close this cycle much more, but also to produce our own proteins on the European continent. If I may say so, Mr President, that is quite a nice debate or, let us put it this way, a nice exchange of views. In the meantime, I think I have answered some of Mr Koffeman's questions. He asked specifically about the grutto. He referred to the report of the Court of Auditors. The General Court has looked at the subsidies for grazing bird policy over the last 20 years. So they really took a bit longer term. They have looked at the subsidies, but I would also like to stress that not only subsidies are relevant in maintaining or not maintaining the grutto, which I consider to be very important. There are many more aspects to this: improving the living environment for rest in the breeding season, sufficient food, protection against predators. So there are a lot more aspects that count than just money. At the same time, I am also saying that improving grazing bird policy is a long-term issue. In 2014, nature policy was decentralised; I think Mr Koffeman was already here at the time. At that time, the provinces became responsible, including for the grazing bird policy and for the agricultural nature management that makes the measures possible. The provinces therefore indicate the management measures to be taken. They shall also determine the conditions under which such grants are to be granted. Of course I do have conversations with the provinces and it's not like it's all happening far from my bed. In the coming years we will even work very intensively with the provinces but also with nature organisations with the Grutto Attack Plan. We've discussed that several times here in the Chamber. Farmers are also supported to take measures that work best. I'll give you some more figures. At the moment, some 35 million annually go to agricultural nature and landscape management. For the Grutto Attack Plan, between 2023 and 2027, nearly 70 million will also be made available through the NSP-GLB, i.e. from the CAP funds. Once again, it is not just money, but we must ensure that we take the measures that are really going to make a contribution with that money. I'm glad we can now give the plan of attack hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u35	As a country, we have a very big responsibility for the world's grutto population. Most of it nests here and the population of grutto breeding pairs is halved, despite the fact that we have spent 400 million on it and despite the fact that the Grutto Attack Plan has been deployed, because that attack plan gives far too much freedom in the measures you have to take. If you place a nest protector at a gruttonest, it is similar for a fox to a McDonaldspaal: here you can eat eggs, here you can eat young people. From the moment the Van Aardenne Committee said in 2013 that agricultural nature management has become a failure, it has been repeatedly said that you will have to make your subsidies result-dependent. You shouldn't say to farmers, "Go do something," and here's your money. But you're gonna have to prescribe that the groundwater level will have to be increased and that we're gonna have pond drainage areas set up. If you don't, the grutto is just lost. The question to the Minister is whether this can be addressed, more than is the case now, because we find in evaluations that we do everything in terms of spending money and in terms of attack plans, but that this does not lead to an improvement in the breeding population.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u36	Just for the record, the Grutto Attack Plan is about to enter into force. That plan of attack was signed by many parties. The funding was there the issue. We have looked hard for the resources that we can use, and fortunately we have done so, but I believe that the plan of attack contains the measures that allow you to compensate long-term farmers who, for example, are going to do pond drass or, for example, make their water levels higher. Because that obviously has consequences for the production of those farmers. I really come across a lot of farmers, I just got another beautiful painting and another figurine that is very excited to work on the grutto stand, in order to make a contribution to that. But what they come up against most is precisely that uncertainty in funding, which is one year rather than the other, while the measures they take are much more structural in nature. I believe that's exactly what's in the plan of attack. That is why we can finance the duration of the NSP. I hope that my successor will be able to stick to that for many years to come. Mr Ferd Crone is not here, but of course he has also taken all kinds of initiatives to organise more direct funding to ensure that grazing bird management can continue for a long time. In my opinion, these are the solutions that really matter, because then a farmer knows what he is doing and he dares to make those investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u37	Thank you, Minister. You're making some progress now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u38	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I've come a long way. I'm trying. Then there is basic policy, as Mr Koffeman calls it. He asks, "Why are we keeping that secret?" I haven't been aware of anything I haven't told you. I note, however, that in recent years we have not had the past cabinet period, but have had a lot of decentralisation before that, and that also the spatial planning policy has become completely decentralised and much more in the provinces. I think the thinking's moved on there, too. At least that is what I read back in the coalition agreement, which says that we should have a more coordinating minister who is going to oversee it across the country. So in my opinion that is not something that is hidden but something that needs some/more central control. Then he asked very specifically about the use of the resources for nitrogen. I want to refer him to the coalition agreement. It contains an annex describing what the funds are going to be used for. That is where Mr Koffeman can see specifically what the indicative allocation of resources is and for what purposes they are used. Quite specifically: if farms are bought up, then most of the production rights will be taken out of them. That's part of the plan, too. Finally, the question about the National Real Estate Company: should the land be sold to Meta? I'm about a lot of things, but not about the government real estate company. I've read a bit in the media about the Reich Real Estate Company, but well, now I'm speculating, because I've read that too. That would have made a number of conditions or something. But if Mr Koffeman wants to know exactly, I would ask him to put it down to Mr Knops anyway. He really knows what's good about it and I know what's good about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u39	Of course, we can appeal to your colleague, Mr Knops, but we are talking about 80 hectares of fertile agricultural land sold. This request is not specifically addressed to you but to the government: can you do anything to prevent fertile agricultural land from falling into the hands of a hyperscale data centre and that 135 windmills are not used for regular energy use but only for the data centre? That was actually the question. I don't think that belongs specifically to one portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u40	In this case, I owe the answer, because it is very specific in Mr Knops's portfolio and I do not know exactly what can and cannot be done in that regard. So I would ask you to pass that on to Mr Knops. Mr Karakus paid a lot of attention to living. I'm not surprised. He was once my alderman in Rotterdam, although he will not know it himself. Even then, he had a lot of attention for living, so I understand that he has the necessary comments to make today. I have already mentioned a few points. He said that the Seventh Action Programme was rejected. That wasn't formally rejected. We are presenting the seventh action programme. However, the Commission shall assess whether that is sufficient to apply for its derogation. The budget would not contain any new plans. We have already discussed this during an interrupting debate, as well as the status of this budget, the question of why there is no extra money in it and the fact that, for example, it can still land in the budget in the spring paper. Mr Karakus had the specific question: why North Holland and South Holland? I have tried to interpret the question: why could they benefit from the nitrogen register and not, for example, Brabant? That is not the case. I'm gonna have to give you the right answer. A number of measures have been taken to ensure that seven MIRT projects and housing could continue. They're in Brabant, too. So the nitrogen register looks very closely at where you collect nitrogen space and where you can use it again. That is not only reserved for North or South Holland. That is certainly also in Brabant, because I know that there is an MIRT project there, but also that there are housing projects that use it. So perhaps that will also reassure Mr Karakus. He also specifically asked about farmers who are not approached. It was in the press. I didn't read the article myself. I checked with our people. They would have read it or heard it. I think it was an item. I'm going to give a very formal answer. That sounds a bit weird, but that's the reality: we shouldn't directly approach peak loaders on the basis of the GDPR, because that concerns privacy-sensitive data. It is true that provinces of Gelderland, for example, are saying to a greater extent to people: if you are interested in a particular scheme, then we may also have a proposal on how it might look, so that you can think about it as well. So if farmers themselves have the idea of "maybe I will be eligible for an arrangement" or "I am curious about it or interested in it," then I really call them to come forward as well. Because that would be the fastest way to deal with it. It is true that when we have the broader approach to nitrogen, you will also get a lot more information evenings and so on. That's harder with corona now, too. Then you can do a lot less focused on that. Then, of course, you also go into the area and tell people what the possibilities are and ask when it fits with their own ideas etc., so that you can reach the people who might want to continue their business in a different way or who want to stop their business, and you can really talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u41	I just want to make sure I got it right. Do I understand correctly from the Minister that peak chargers are not known to the governments or cannot be approached by the local authorities because of the privacy laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u42	Indeed, the GDPR makes it difficult to go to someone and say: you are a peak loader.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u43	I was just waiting for the answer, but I still have a question to answer. This is exactly what this is about. The Wvg is also an example. It's about how we can get more visibility and control of the situation. If we know that there are indeed relevant entrepreneurs, you could do something about it as an active government. So my question was in general: do you agree that we should at least take an active attitude from the government? If you say 'yes, I do, but there are obstacles', can you say what those barriers are and what the solution is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u44	I just mentioned one, very practical now. It is more difficult to organize meetings now because of corona, because you cannot get together and can say: these are about the ideas, possibilities and the plans. So it's now... that's what the provinces do good work in, I have to say. Especially the province of Gelderland is very active in trying to have direct contact with the farmers: "What are your plans for the future? Are you interested? Can we help with that? We have arrangements that we offer for this." So it is possible, but it is more intensive to be able to reach the companies immediately. But I do think it's a good idea to use it more broadly when you have that bigger approach to nitrogen. The point is that you can talk to people at the kitchen table so to speak about their future plans, et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u45	That's what it's about, that we can agree that the policy will reflect on how to act as a government, where there are obstacles and what the solutions are. Again, the Wvg is just an instrument. If it's necessary, you'll have to adjust it, too. If you promise to do that, I'm fine with waiting for the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u46	That would certainly be my intention, although I do not anticipate what is going to happen and who exactly sits there. It is precisely the provision of information, the publication of regulations, but also the good conversation you have with each other. That, I think, is the basis for a successful approach to this. Gradually, we will always face practical problems. That's just gonna happen. Then I think it would be a good idea if the successor would at least look with your Chamber for what it takes to get into it. In that sense, I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u47	Will you pass that on to the new minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u48	Yeah, I'm gonna put that in a file somewhere, on page 1. Mr Karakus also asked about the relationship between the 100,000 homes in the coalition agreement versus the 75,000 homes with the nitrogen approach. Just as specific: those 75,000 were in the temporary nitrogen law. These were the first measures taken to realize 75,000 homes. We were just talking about that nitrogen register. In the meantime, we are a step further and we have incorporated the so-called building exemption into the legislation. This means that for housing, not for the use phase but for the construction phase, there is an exemption to completely compensate for nitrogen emissions, because we take this into account in the major approach to reducing nitrogen. Based on that, we can just call the amount of housing. Moreover, I believe that the largest bottleneck will be staff and construction equipment in the coming years. I think that is a much bigger challenge for the ambition of so many homes, which are needed. But for nitrogen, at least we have the building exemption, which at least makes it possible to build the houses. I have just said a few words about expropriation in the debate. I also mentioned the application of the Wvg in the small debate with Mrs Kluit. Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered all the questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u49	Thank you, Minister. Mr Karakus does not quite agree with that, I see, so I am giving him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u50	I do miss an important part. On the one hand, the Minister refers to the new cabinet. She's already giving a look at it as if there's a policy, so how sure is it and why do you think there's a policy? Secondly, whether you're missionary or missionary, you have to abide by the law. Can the Minister explain why its budget and policy comply with the legislation? The Council of State has made very critical comments on this. Can you guarantee that your budget and policy comply with the nitrogen law?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u51	I'm going to give a bit of a formal answer now. The question is whether the nitrogen law that is in force complies with the law, because my budget is a further elaboration of the laws that have been dealt with and adopted here, albeit not with the support of the PvdA. The budget is a reflection of what is in the laws we have dealt with here. I said that we should take steps forward in the nitrogen approach, because we see that we still have a way to go; let me put it this way. An acceleration, which is now also part of the coalition agreement, is necessary to ensure that on the one hand we can give perspective for agriculture and, on the other hand, allow for housing, work and other activities. To say that my budget does not comply with the law, I find a far-reaching statement. My budget is an expression of the laws that are underneath and the policies that I make on them. That's been passed here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u52	Maybe I should have turned it around. We have legislation, you have policies to comply with that legislation, and based on that, you're budgeting something. Then it is relevant to reason from the budget: do I ultimately meet my objective, in other words, my legislation? That's what my question was about. Do we now have the right budget proposals to achieve this objective and to comply with the legislation? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u53	Okay, it's clear. Thank you. The measures and resources currently contained in this budget are in line with the measures contained in the nitrogen reduction and natural recovery legislation. So that connects. At the time, we set aside funds for this: 3 billion for nature and 2 billion for source measures. What is in this budget is an impact of the reservation of those means to achieve the goals we have now laid down in the law. In the meantime, we are monitoring whether the measures that are being taken do what they have to do. If that's not enough, then we need to send it in. That whole monitoring aspect is also in the law, so we need to take those steps. That law is only a year old, so we need to put in place some measures and see if we can measure them. But that system is in the law and this budget is a reflection of that. The second question is: is that sufficient in the light of the great challenge that exists? Then I'll join the coalition agreement. It says that there must be an acceleration of nitrogen reduction, in any case in order to meet the legal objectives earlier, but also to allow for other activities again. That second element is not yet in this budget, because at that time there was no coalition agreement and at that time these funds were not available. I assume that the successor will soon come up with plans on how he or she intends to achieve that acceleration and what means are appropriate to those measures. This budget is therefore in line with the current law. I think there's gonna be a tightening of the law. Then the budget may also be adjusted accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u54	Thank you. Then we now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u55	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps Mr Karakus can take a look at his phone and give me a nod or not, now that we are not suspending for a minute. Then I'll be on my second term. I have a few more questions, then we would come to conclusions and I would like to table a motion. After that, I'd like to conclude with this minister. First up, I've got the GDPR. It wasn't quite clear to me that it was so tight on each other. So I wonder: is that in the national implementation of the GDPR, or in the international rules? Maybe the Minister can give some explanation on that. The Minister pointed out to Mr Karakus that if this budget is rejected, we must return with projects. Is it true that the next Minister can also come back with a policy-rich budget at once? Of course, he doesn't have to come to the Chamber by project or program. Then it can come up with a policy-rich budget in one go. I see the Minister looking in the eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u56	I think that's state law. That's not my specialty. Maybe the chairman knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u57	Maybe the time can be stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u58	Let's let Mrs. Kluit finish her term first. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u59	Then I'll get to the WVG. I assume it's hard to apply it, because it's about changing functions. Is it possible to define extensive agriculture, or nature farming, as another function, so that it can be applied and not defined as agricultural land for a sec? That's a question I have. Finally, the rule of law around Schiphol. We have already talked about farmers for a while, but there is also a sound regime. That has been a policy of tolerance for six years. The Minister asks for care. My question is: what does the Minister think of a real time limit for care? Six years has been a very long time to fall under a non-legally valid sound regime. Then I come to my conclusion, Mr President. As has already been said, the budget does not yet provide an overview of the major renovation of the rural area facing the Netherlands. This means, in practice, that we are not really going to take any real steps until next year's spring budget or probably the autumn budget. In view of the debate we have just had, I have serious doubts as to whether that is the pace at which we should go. We'd really like to go faster. I will therefore advise my group to vote against it. I've tried a few times, maybe not in the right way, to start the conversation about that new governance culture. That's why I'm filing this motion. I would like to inform the President that it will not be put to the vote until after the APB, so that we can do it with a new cabinet. The: Mr Kluit, Mr Vendrik, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr De Boer, Mr Karakus and Mr Koffeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new cabinet has expressed its intention to work on an open administrative culture, including cooperation between government and opposition based on mutual respect;]] [[whereas this requires a different way of working by both coalition and opposition;]] [[Whereas policy challenges in the field of agriculture and nature management are great and the planned transition calls for intensive reflection and dialogue at the heart of politics;]] [[Whereas, therefore, it is desirable to develop a new agricultural policy (and related financial instruments) through an open parliamentary process, inviting coalition and opposition parties to forward thoughts and ideas to the Cabinet in order to make an equivalent contribution to the formation of the new policy;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into an open process with the Parliament in the short term with the aim of establishing a rural area programme that can be carried out in a broad parliamentary way and thus reflects the intention of the new cabinet to work with an open administrative culture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u60	I have a question. Do you think it is a testament to a new governance culture to ask this, but at the same time say: well, we are voting against it? While there's a missionary cabinet and there's a new cabinet in three weeks. A lot of handouts have been done to you. Is that the new governance culture you're pursuing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u61	I think that is a good question from Mr Pijlman. As I noticed in this debate, it is constantly looking for when there are good times to do things. I am not in favour of voting for or against laws being linked to whether or not to table motions or get commitments. So I think that's actually one of the tricky things about the old governance culture. It should be about the content of the proposals that are being made, from all sides of politics. I understand that Mr Pijlman is disappointed. I myself find it rather disappointing that we are standing here and that we come to this conclusion. So we share that, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u62	I don't know what we're sharing. I'm glad you're saying that you're holding the motion, that you want to talk to the new ruler about that. I get that. I also think it is important that this conversation gets going. I understand your point, but I am talking about rejecting this budget from a outgoing cabinet, when the Minister, I would say, has been turned upside down to offer you as much space as possible. I really think that's an example of the old culture. Mr President, this was not a question but a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u63	That's your observation. Finally, I would like to say a few words of appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u64	Apologies, Mr President, I did not participate in the debate, but I did hear that this motion was tabled. I have a question about that. The House of Representatives asked for an agricultural agreement some time ago. Actually, I hear all the elements, except for that new governance culture. Does Mrs Kluit refer to that agricultural agreement, which I believe the Minister has already promised in the House of Representatives that it will be taken into account by the new cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u65	Like Mr Schalk, I am also in favour of society being very closely involved. In previous debates, we also asked the Minister to discuss nitrogen issues with civil society. The agricultural agreement can certainly be an important part of this. But the motion is about the mutual political dialogue. There has been a great deal of discussion about climate agreements, about agreements that are concluded outside politics. At that time, it was said Chamber-wide: we must bring this type of conversation into the heart of our Parliament. But I keep bumping into that either too soon or too late or in the wrong tone. So we need to learn how to do this differently. That is the purpose of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u66	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u67	My speech is actually over. I come to my words of appreciation for this Minister. I would also like to say those words to her officials. As Mr Pijlman said, we always felt helped by the Minister to make things work together, even if we did not agree politically. I've always appreciated that in this minister. The minister's been under a lot of pressure. Then it is all the more appreciated how open the doors were and how well they were listened to. I very much hope that in ten years' time we will conclude together that the circular agriculture that has started under its leadership has been the much-needed trend break in our agricultural system and that it will be a great success for both farmers and nature. It struck our group and that of the PvdA on 'I have a look at Mr Karakus's statement that the Minister gave all the political groups a tree in a forest at her farewell in the House of Representatives. We believe that this Minister also deserves a tree in that same forest. She deserves one that might grow a bit before it actually bears fruit, but which is large, strong and robust. So our group, together with the PvdA, is pleased to give a walnut gift to this minister to remind her of her fine time as Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u68	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. I see Mrs. Prince walking towards the microphone. Yes, Mrs. Prince has an interruption for you on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u69	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for Mrs Kluit. On the one hand, there is a great deal of appreciation for the fact that this minister and this cabinet have worked on and started circular agriculture. We'd like to continue with that, I understand, including you. Yet you are voting against this budget. I can't rhyme with it. Could you give us some more details on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u70	In fact, I would like to quote Mrs Kaag: 'It must become more businesslike in politics'. The fact that I have a great deal of appreciation for this Minister does not mean that I appreciate that we have a budget that is poor in policy, in a dossier that requires so much action. I would also like to point out to Mrs Prins that we from the PvdA and we tried to shift this debate over the year so that we could have it with the new minister. To my great regret, the coalition parties had no support for that. Then there's just not much left for us other than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u71	That's just the question. First of all, as far as 'becoming more business' is concerned, I do not hear you say anything about the person but about the policy of this minister, about circular agriculture. That's business; that's a fact in itself. We, too, as coalition partners, have said about discussing the budget that this is the slimmed-down budget, that there is going to be a change in the budget on the basis of the new coalition agreement and that we would then discuss it again with the new cabinet and the new minister. So we simply wanted to deal with it properly in the process, and we certainly look forward to discussing the new agriculture and policy with the new minister and the new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u72	I may not have been clear enough, but for us, the important point is that in order to implement current policies, this budget should have included much more resources to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. I can understand your position, but our position here is different. You say we are in a coalition negotiation. It also needs its time and care, but we are in another place and we would like to give these farmers certainty, that we invest in nature and that we stop that decline. We're not secretive about that. This has been a constructive line for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u73	We believe that the last law we passed on nature, nitrogen and nature conservation has explicitly invested money to do so. We want to continue with this. So I will give all the room to the budget and then look further with the new cabinet in the new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u74	I quote Mrs Prins herself: we are talking about this budget. Unfortunately, it doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u75	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. I shall now give the floor to Mr Berkhout on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u76	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Minister and her staff for their comprehensive response. Unfortunately, the Minister's reply has shown that the cabinet does not rule out the possibility of expropriating farmers under nitrogen legislation. My group considers this to be an extremely worrying development. We are therefore tabling a motion to prevent these expropriations and thereby protect our farmers, our landscape and the legal certainty of citizens. We would like to put this motion to the vote for the budget, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u77	I'm gonna see if the Chamber gives you a leave of absence for that. Yes, that's the case. Then we'll do it tonight. Go ahead, Mr. Berkhout.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u78	Thank you. The: Mr Berkhout, Mr Van Wely and Mr Nanninga proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are advanced government plans to expropriate farmers if necessary under nitrogen policy;]] [[calls on the government not to allow the expropriation of farmers from the point of view of reducing nitrogen emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u79	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for her answer to the questions, for having indicated that she had taken account of the possibilities and inability to deal with this dossier, and for preparing to eliminate these inabilitys as far as possible in a subsequent period, in order to prepare the way for that. It is encouraging that the minister also has an eye for small landscape elements and that she in the House of Representatives to all groups that are many nowadays has made a tree present in a food forest. It is very pleasing to us that we did not choose an adoptive chicken or an adoptive chicken, but a tree in a food forest. If that means anything, we'd be happy to. However, we are concerned about the grutto. We have exchanged them in this debate. We are aware of the Grutto Attack Plan, but we think that is too non-binding. This has to do with the fact that the Van Aardenne Committee has previously said that agricultural nature management is well-meant but has become a failure, and that the General Court says that the last twenty years have not brought what we expected from it. We would very much like to see the use of meadow birds be subject to results and the subsidies for this commitment also become result-dependent. I would therefore like to table the next motion. The: Mr Koffeman, Mr Prast, Mr Kox and Mr Kluit proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas despite 400 million grants for grazing bird protection, the number of breeding pairs of the grutto has been halved to 30,000;]] [[Considering that agricultural nature management in 2013 was described by the Van Ardenne Commission as "a fiasco';]] [[Whereas in 2021 the General Court found that the protection of meadow birds "did not work';]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan of action to stop the further decline of the meadowbird population and to make subsidies for agricultural nature management result-dependent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u80	Mr. Chairman. At the drop, the minister can do something big for the landscape elements in the municipality of Zeewolde, where Meta wants to create a hyperscale data centre of 166 hectares on fertile agricultural land. I think that this fertile agricultural land is, in particular, the link to the portfolio of this minister and this budget. The fact that she assesses this in consultation with her colleague, Mr Knops, seems fine to me, but that is no reason for us to address a colleague of the Minister. For this hyperscale data centre, the techreus Meta/Facebook has acquired 80 hectares of land. This center will have a green electricity consumption of 115 wind turbines of 4 megawatts, equivalent to a power consumption of 460,000 households. That is why I would like to table this motion in the second term, addressed to the cabinet, to which I hope the cabinet will implement it by common accord. I think that the situation is so urgent that it cannot wait any longer. That's why the next motion. The: Mr Koffeman, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Prast, Mr Kox, Mr Raven, Mr Kluit, Mr Berkhout and Mr Karakus proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a hyperscale data centre in Zeewolde has a major impact on our energy supply, on fertile agricultural land and on scarce freshwater supplies;]] [[noting that the Cabinet has indicated that it has the power to designate co-governments as required by the general interest;]] [[Notes that the establishment of a hyperscale data centre in Zeewolde is contrary to the general interest and to the coalition agreement on data centres and good spatial design;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the National Real Estate Company to suspend the sale of agricultural land for the purpose of hyperscale data centres until a new government vision for spatial planning and data centres is ready,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-XIV-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u81	Mr. Chairman. We also thank the Minister for his reply. It's a difficult discussion. On the one hand, we are facing new policies that are coming towards us. We have to judge that, but we don't know it yet. The Minister always refers to that. Secondly, we have talked about where the extra resources are. The urgency must be felt, but we do not see it in the budget. That's what I brought in in the first term. I missed the Minister's drive, in the vein of 'we feel the urgency and we are going to make sure that there is a policy change and therefore a budget change as soon as possible next month, the day after tomorrow'. From her point of view, she may rightly point to a process with a spring note, but our concern was and is that we lose another year. So that concern has not been taken away. Our second point was an active government. The minister indicated where she's stuck. I think you might have indicated that earlier, so that we might be able to help you as chambers to find a solution. I am pleased that the Minister is taking this issue into account in new policies. How are we going to actively approach the relevant entrepreneurs? What do we need for that? We do like the expropriation. Only when it's really necessary should you bet it. I understand the Minister's reasoning and we support it. You don't just use that in advance, but as a government you have to keep that possibility. Because of the urgency, you have to go through every once in a while. Mr. Chairman. What we have expressed our greatest concern about is the law. The Minister refers to the new policy. New financial resources should then be made available for this purpose. But there isn't yet. We must, however, address the current Minister and the current budget to the question: do we stick to the policy, my dear Minister? There was an answer, but that wasn't clear. I take the view that with the current policy, with the current budgetary issue, we may not be complying with the legislation, but that we are going to comply with it with a new policy and a new cabinet. If we then have to assess the current policy and budget, my conclusion is that we do not comply with the legislation. Then I do not think you can and can vote for such a budget either. Mr. Chairman. I can therefore say on our considerations that we are going to vote against the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u82	Thank you, Mr. Karakus. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? No. Then I'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u83	I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There were a number of questions, at least from Mrs Kluit. She specifically asked about the GDPR. The point is that you can only use data for the purpose for which you have collected them. It's in the GDPR. Whether it's national or international, I honestly don't know. But that is at least the starting point for the GDPR. The emission data collected has not been specifically collected for the purpose of approaching peak chargers for, for example, a conversation about a different way of producing, or stopping, or whatever. We can make information about the location of peak chargers available for provinces, as long as we do not add any personal data. So that is the formal path we must take. What I said, provinces are at the same time, in a practical sense, engaged in approaching farmers themselves, regardless of whether they are more concentrated or not: how do you see your future and what does that mean? Moreover, this is not only happening in farmers, but also wider than that. Then there was a question as to whether the budget could be changed at once. I was already non-verbal when Mrs Kluit asked that question, because I just don't know. I have always explained the procedure that can be followed for the money, because I think that was Mrs Kluit's problem. At least that's what I heard in an interruption. She said that this budget does not, in her view, contain sufficient resources to achieve the objectives. She wanted that to be speeded up. I have always explained the procedure for how that can happen next year. In my view, that is the answer to Mrs Kluit's question when these funds can be made available and used next year. Then the question of whether land status can be adapted to a new function. It is not the case that we have a certain function other than agricultural land. It is not the case that nature-inclusive agriculture now has a status in the law, or whatever. Land is land, for agriculture or for other purposes. The way you use that land is not in the law as such. Maybe Mrs. Kluit says that's something to consider. It's up to a new cabinet to weigh in, I think. It's not like there's a title for it right now. That was the question and I explained it. What is a real deadline with regard to Schiphol, she has asked. She mentions a period of six years. I would point out that the permit and the view were submitted last summer, so in that sense it is within the time-limit we are working on, a time-limit which is quite common to assess a view, especially since it is also legally quite complex. I understand Mrs Kluit says there hasn't been a valid permit for six years. I would stress that we have initiated this process, but it has not been that long ago. That is also the issue that came out of the judge's ruling when he judged the PAS as inappropriate. Let's just call it that. Then there are the motions, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, Mrs Kluit's motion, with letter E. The request, I think, is broader than just the request for our budget. This is all about an open trial in parliament. In addition, it is a national programme that is parliamentaryly widely supported and does justice to the intention of a new cabinet to work with an open administrative culture. I understand that this motion will be tabled later or put to the vote later?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u85	Put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u86	I think this is just a question for a new cabinet. It's a little complicated for me, because I can promise all of this, but then I'm going to anticipate a little bit of a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u87	The motion will be put to the vote at least after the General Political Reviews, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u88	Could Mrs. Kluit otherwise arrest her?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u89	It's already been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u90	Oh, that's already done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u91	Mrs Kluit has tabled the motion and also held it in one motion. You can do that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u92	But I still have an appreciation to give her?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u93	That will be appreciated, if you wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u94	Yes, but I find it rather complicated, because this is about my colleagues. Or, "colleagues..." the successors. So I'm gonna do something over my grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u95	Mrs Kluit could have also submitted her to the APB, but you can also leave it to the colleague, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u96	I'd leave it to the APB anyway. I'd think that would be so fitting. Then there is the motion by Mr Berkhout, Mr Van Wely and Mr Nanninga, who asks the cabinet not to allow the expropriation of farmers in connection with nitrogen emissions. I have just tried to point out that it is an existing instrument in an existing law, which sets out quite precisely the cases in which it may be applied, that that framework exists in all cases and that there is now no legislative amendment to amend it. So I must discourage this motion. Then there is the motion by Mr Koffeman and others on a plan of action to stop the further decline in the population of meadow birds. I would still like to give room for the Grutto Attack Plan with all the steps in it, for which we have just arranged the money. I do agree with Mr Koffeman that we need to monitor closely what is happening with the money. In the debate on the National Strategic Programme, on how we are going to organise our CAP, I have promised that we will identify and monitor its economic but also its environmental impact. Of course, this is partly due to agricultural nature management, so that will also be part of it. But since we already have a plan, I must advise against this motion. Then there's the motion on the National Real Estate Company. Actually, it's already in the title: it's the National Real Estate Company. I can jump high and low, but at the moment I really don't know so much about the National Real Estate Company that I can say if these are regular conditions within which they can deviate from sales or anything like that. I would ask that this motion be submitted to my colleague Mr Knops. I see that it is not possible to do so now with the time left until the vote, I guess. So either Mr Koffeman holds the motion and asks my colleague, Mr Knops, for a response, or he does not, and then I must dissuade the motion now because it is simply not my policy and I cannot see what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u97	It is an urgent matter, about 80 hectares of fertile agricultural land. That is why I have tabled the motion for a resolution in this agricultural debate. The urgency is also a reason not to keep the matter waiting for another debate with your colleague Mr Knops. The motion is not addressed to the minister himself, but to the cabinet. The cabinet may have an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u98	I get that. However, I do think it is fair to have those who are political about it and also know about the hat and the edge of the hat that is not so much an appreciation to me as an appreciation of the motion. I can't believe that's gonna happen in time. That is why I should advise her not to, because I believe that the policy-maker should be able to respond to this. Mr. Chairman. I think I have now arrived at the last motions, but perhaps my last words in this Chamber in this cabinet. It has always been a pleasure to be here, because we can always debate the content. I must say that I am disappointed that a number of groups here thought they should vote against the budget, because I thought we could always look at the content of what was and how it would eventually be weighted. I have always tried to keep the open lines with this Chamber and I have greatly appreciated that this has also happened the other way around. I do not think it will bring the groups to another consideration, but I have done this policy with love and I will always look back on it with love. This is partly due to the fine debates I have had here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u99	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u100	Last but not least, it's gonna be Christmas. Christmas is the feast of hope and light. That's what I want everyone to do, especially in times when it can sometimes seem dark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u101	Thank you, Minister. I speak on behalf of the Chamber when I echo the words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u102	I've come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that after the break we vote on the bill. I therefore propose that we vote on the motions that have been tabled. Mr Kox asked that the legislative proposal for the adoption of the budget statements of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations (VII) for 2022 should not be put to the vote today and postponed until after Christmas. I give the floor to Mr Kox for a brief explanation, if he so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My request to hold the vote until after the ceremony was prompted by the observation that the debate showed that there are groups that have difficulty voting in favour of the BZK budget, because the situation is that the new cabinet is going to launch all kinds of new plans, which I believe will be supported by this Chamber, but that for 2022 a number of issues have not been settled for some reason. Hence my proposal to consult him or her in January, as soon as we have a new member of the government in the field of BZK, to see if that is still possible within the budget. For the record, the Compatibility Act does not oppose that. Those who do not believe me can read today's column by Bert van den Braak and Van den Berg at Parliament.com. There is no legal objection to postponing the vote. My group voted in favour in the House of Representatives and would also like to vote in favour in this Chamber, but then something must be done, and there is still a need for clarification. I hope that the Chamber will be able to support that request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u104	Are there any Members who wish to speak on Mr Kox's procedural proposal? Mr Pijlman on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u105	We discussed it at length this morning. I asked the Minister myself: postpone, postpone, what does that mean? This means that certain policy intensifications that are in it cannot be implemented for the time being either. I would like to remind you of the Groningen file, which is also very important to me. I myself think it is an illusion to think that you can have that debate here in January. That will have to be postponed very soon. And if the wishes that some groups have here still have to be implemented, then that whole process must also be implemented through the House of Representatives. So it does not seem sensible to me, apart from the fact that I do not think it wise to make it a kind of policy debate as a First Chamber, while the House of Representatives has spoken and voted on the budget. This should not be the subject of a budget discussion in the First Chamber, so we will not support this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u106	You don't support it. Then Mr Rietkerk on behalf of the CDA. I saw it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u107	With respect for the content of having a policy debate with a new minister, which the CDA Group is also in favour of, we do not agree with the order proposal. The investments that the corporations want to make, the investments in renewable energy, the additional investments, including towards Groningen, are intended to be in place from 1 January, so that the citizens are clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u108	So you do not support the proposal. Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u109	My group supports the proposal, because there are two choices: whether we vote on the budget or in January/February. Then the draft law itself sees that it will work retroactively until 1 January, if it is adopted. That is already in the law, but it is also a general principle of the Compatibility Act. The new minister, or the old minister, may spend money on the old budget for the time being and may also pre-sort on new expenditure. The facts mentioned by Mr Pijlman are therefore not correct. It is better then to accept the coalition agreement, as we have always been asked to do. It's got intensifications in it, and we're gonna take them with us. Let's do that together. If we reject the budget, a whole new budget must come to the House of Representatives. That is not necessary if this budget is to be decided in January. It is to help everyone to achieve the greatest possible majority together in order to prevent the collapse of construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u110	Thank you, Mr Crone. Then Mrs Faber on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u111	We do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u112	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Mr Keunen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u113	We agree with the comments made by D66 and the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u114	Thank you, Mr. Keunen. Then Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u115	The courteousness in this Chamber normally commands that colleagues be given all the space to ask for anything and everything. But as far as I am concerned, the purity of the state is above parliamentary courtesy in this case. I think that that state-law purity commands not to put a new government in an impossible position, at the very beginning of its start. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats therefore proposes that the budget be settled and that Mr Kox's point be raised in a future debate with the new government. Mr Kox has sufficient political flexibility to enter that debate at some point in time as far as I am concerned, so no support for this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u116	Thank you. Any of the other members?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u117	Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u118	Support for the proposal. I see Mrs Baay. I would also like to look at Mr Kox to see if he wishes to add anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u119	I do not know what Mr Kox's addition is, but we do not support the proposal as it has been put forward at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u120	Then I give the floor to Mr Kox. Then I would ask the other groups to indicate whether or not they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u121	I respect the Court's judgment on my proposal. I do have one more comment. State law is pure. Article 2.25 of the Compatibility Act states that this does not contradict anything and that if the Minister considers that matters should enter into force on 1 January, those matters should simply enter into force. So there's nothing wrong with state law. But politics can be the way it works out. Then I respect that, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u122	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I would ask the other groups that have not yet taken the floor to indicate whether or not they support the proposal. For the record, the Group of the Forum for Democracy and the Otten Group are absent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u123	We will not, in fact, support the order proposal by underlining the words used by Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u124	Thank you. Then Mrs Nanninga on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u125	Support for the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u126	Support. Then Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u127	Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u128	Support for the proposal. I have not yet heard the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Mr. Vendrik or Mrs. Kluit?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u129	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. We support Mr Kox's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-12-21-eerstekamer-19.u130	You support the order proposal. I note that there is insufficient support for Mr Kox's procedural proposal. This means that the legislative proposal will be voted on later today. I shall now suspend the sitting for half an hour until 7.20 p.m. so that the voting lists can be made.
