ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u1	I'm reopening the meeting because I opened it early this morning. The next item is the debate on riots in the Netherlands. I would like to welcome all Members of Parliament. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and Security and the Minister of Defence in trade union K. I give the floor to Mr Wilders as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV. Speaking time is two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u2	Madam President. What we have seen in the Netherlands over the past few days can be described with no pen. Shops have been looted, cars have been set on fire, molotov cocktails have been thrown at the police, a test street has been set on fire, police stations have been attacked and even hospitals have been attacked. People were in danger and Dutch neighborhoods looked like war zones. Of course, that should never have happened and that may never happen again. No one in the Netherlands understands that the cabinet has let things get so out of hand for three days. We must do everything we can to prevent this from happening again and to guarantee the safety of the people in the neighbourhoods. The thugs, the criminals who believe that violence can be used, must be arrested and put behind bars for a long time or be expelled from our country. Mr. Chairman. It is unacceptable that entrepreneurs, who are already struggling enough, are now faced with the real fear that their store is being robbed and plundered. It's unacceptable that people sit at home anxiously because they don't know if their home or their car might be torched tonight. And yes, it is immigrants and natives who are guilty of this destruction and violence. Although it is striking that in many cities, such as Rotterdam and The Hague, it is our immigrant fellow citizens who have shown themselves to be violent again. Mr. Chairman. The most important thing now is that we are able to prevent the repetition of violence. Every day that violence is repeated, the thugs show that riots pay off, that they win. So in the event of large-scale riots, please deploy the army. 'Cause the police are doing great work, and they're understaffed, with all the consequences of that. Everyone sees the need for backup. Also the cabinet, because they want to hire police from Germany or Belgium. And that's outrageous, Mr. Chairman, because we have our own army. Let the army in large-scale riots, only in large-scale riots, assist the police, clean our streets where necessary and restore order in the Netherlands. Show that we are the boss in the Netherlands and give our families and our companies their safety back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. I see Mr Grotehuizen, I see Mr Kuzu and I see Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. First of all, Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u4	I listened very carefully to Mr Wilders. He says we have to do everything we can to stop those riots. But before, the PVV in Urk said: we must do everything we can not maintain that curfew. And now Mr Wilders says: we must deploy the army. So first, he's undermining the authority of the police on the street, and now he's actually pushing the police aside to deploy the army. I don't understand. I don't understand why Mr. Wilders isn't just going to fully support our police and our enforcers. That is why I would ask him to distance himself from those words of PVV Urk and simply stand behind our police. Let's be sensible. No army; law enforcement is up to the police!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u5	No, Mr. Chairman, we're 100% behind our police. We've always been behind our police, and we are now. And if someone from the PVV in Urk says that it shouldn't be maintained for his municipality, I don't think that's convenient. I would not have said that, but the suggestion that some people have done here is grotesque, false and totally incorrect. The PVV is behind the police, the PVV thinks we should even use the army to tackle the thugs. I am particularly sorry that you are not going to do so, because then you will allow a situation to arise in the Netherlands in which we are going to have another riot again, let us hope that it does not happen again, and that we will soon have German agents on our streets while we have an army that can help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u6	This is, of course, a hypocrite. Mr Wilders is the only member of his party. Then it is the PVV Urk who says: "We are going to do everything we can not maintain that curfew." Then we see what the consequences are. Words have consequences. The only thing Mr Wilders knows how to say here in this Chamber is: 'I do not think this is so convenient'. That's too skinny. I call once again on Mr Wilders to distance himself from the tweet, it was unwise, it creates a climate in which people are going to do things they should not do. Just get away from it; be so masculine, be so brave to just say, "That was a dumb tweet, I'm gonna get away from it."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u7	If there's one batch here that might be more hypocritical, it's D66. Because at about the same time that my colleague in Urk took out that tweet and again, I wouldn't have done it, that tweet was there in Amsterdam in the city council a motion filed by D66, by Mr R.H. van Dantzig. And what does Mr R.H. say about Dantzig? In this motion, co-signed by GroenLinks, he says that maintaining the curfew is impossible. The question in that motion, which I believe will be voted on today or tomorrow, was tabled last week to pass on to the cabinet. So if there's any hypocrite here to take my measure and stir up the false and dirty suggestion that talking about maintaining would lead to violence, which is completely absurd, then you're the one with the biggest pack of butter on your head. Because on the same day your party tabled a motion in Amsterdam to say that maintaining it is impossible. So what would apply to Urk, which is not, is true for you squared.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u8	Finally, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u9	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I understand that Mr. Wilders is about to blow. Because of course it is a bit clumsy that, if you resist such a curfew with your hand and tooth, there is such a clumsy, bad call from representatives of your party who then lead to this kind of riot. Then you're gonna blow in the direction of someone who's just filing a motion in a room, in local democracy, questioning the enforcement. That is, of course, quite different from saying publicly: 'We are going to do everything we can not maintain this'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u10	That is what the party, D66, which at first was extremely against the curfew, even supported my motion in November, which then went on for half an hour! He sold his soul and salvation to the cabinet to agree to that curfew. Next, that party submits a motion in Amsterdam, with the first signatory, D66, saying that the enforcement order is not feasible. And then you're gonna lecture me? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u11	The story of Mr Wilders began very hopefully. He noted that there was involvement in the riots in several groups. But a little later it slipped to the traditional level we are used to from Mr Wilders, namely that a distinction is made between different groups and that a determination is made unilaterally by a group of people in the big cities. I note that when it comes to Moroccan Dutch, Mr Wilders indicates that they must be shot in the knees. When it comes to the Schilderswijk or the Beijerlandslaan, tanks must be used. But the moment the events occurred in Urk, Mr Wilders was puslief. When the events occurred in Enschede, Mr Wilder was puslief. So I ask him: what is Mr Wilders' balancing framework when he sees these kinds of events come along?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u12	I understand that it is very painful for Mr Kuzu to see the images that we have all been able to see in the big cities. Unfortunately there were many Turks and Moroccans who were going to plunder shops, who set scooters on fire, who caused the greatest misery we have had. I also said: they are not just immigrants, they are natives who have done so, from Urk to other places. So I never raised the suggestion here or said they were just immigrants, because that wouldn't be the truth. But you do see every time in big cities that that happens. We got an e-mail from an agent from Rotterdam. I won't mention his name to protect him who was on duty at the Beijerlandslaan in Rotterdam, on Monday I believe when the misery arose there. He says they were all Moroccans. They were all Moroccans. And that's the truth. It may be annoying for you, but that's what we've seen, and we have to act hard against it. That is the result of decades of mass immigration and ensuring that people do not integrate, that they have nothing, no values in common with us and that they only fight against Dutch society. And indeed, I name that. When that happens, I say stop it! If you don't like it here, go to Morocco or Turkey, like you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u13	No, Mr. Wilders. This is exactly what we're used to with you. This is exactly what you have been doing here in the Lower House for fifteen years, namely putting the blame on a certain group of Dutch people, with indeed a Turkish or Moroccan background. That is the selectivity that we know from Mr Wilders. That is the scapegoat politics that we know from Mr Wilders. When it comes to Urk, Mr. Wilders is puslief. A whole talk about what is happening on the Beijerlandslaan and about the deployment of the army at the time of riots on the Beijerlandslaan or in the Schilderswijk, but puslief when it comes to Duindorp. Pussy when it comes to Urk. Pussy when it comes to the white Dutch. That is Mr Wilders' selectivity, and it is being demonstrated again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr President, I did not hear a question, but let me answer it anyway. I'm not a pussycat at all. I'm against any violence, any violence, any violence. I am now saying for the third time that violence has been used by immigrants and indigenous people in recent days. I have also said three times that this includes people in Urk. They must be dealt with as hard as anyone else. I just added the following. If you look at the big cities, you can see that it is not two or three, but dozens of Moroccans, in the Schilderswijk, in Amsterdam-Oost, or I know where, Rotterdam, they break in. We can all see the movies of the past few days. It's all yours. Not the mines, but yours. I've had enough of this. Get those guys out of here!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u15	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr Wilders would have a credible story if he used the same language for those children of Henk and Ingrid who burned down the test street of the GGD in Urk. If he used the same language for those people who think it's necessary to throw stones at hospitals. What Mr Wilders is doing here is sowing divisions between groups of Dutch people and distinguishing between different groups of people based on ethnic background. That's racist! Mr Wilders must stop doing so, because that will not bring our country any further. We've got a job to do, but we've got to get it together. Not by dividing groups, but by radiating unity. You won't. You haven't, and you probably never will.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u17	Engage unit? It's just the Turks and Moroccans destroying our entire country. Those make them every time in Rotterdam, Amsterdam and I know where the big... Are you going to yell at me outside the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u18	You guys want to take it easy? We're just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u19	I answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u20	Then I will go to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u21	I hear Mr Wilders telling me what everyone has done wrong as usual. It's always the cabinet's fault. We're used to that little wiggle. Today the PVV says: the police are no good; they have to move and we are going to deploy the army. Everyone has a role in Mr Wilders' eyes in everything that has gone wrong in his eyes, except himself. My colleagues are asking a fair question here. Where was Mr Wilders when this misery began with the fire on Urk? Nota bene among his own supporters. It's a legitimate question. Where did Mr Wilders start? Don't come to me with: immigrants, Turks and Moroccans. At the moment when the people of Turkish and Moroccan descent are rioting and shouting 'cancer Jew', I stand up against it. The minute they burn the place down on Urk, I'm gonna stand up to that, too. No selective indignation: where was Mr Wilders when it started on Urk?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u22	Let me first respond to the false and filthy suggestion of the colleague of the VVD that we would drop the police. I didn't, and I never will. We're right behind the police. I wish you would. If only you were behind the police a little more. If you were behind the police, you would have supported me when it comes to using the army, because the police, who work hard, won't last. You can see reports in the newspapers from representatives of the trade union movement at the police that say, "We can't handle it. We're undermanned. We're undermanned; we're not gonna make it." That certainly applies when they have to run triple shifts. You can't keep that up. The Cabinet admits that. In fact, the cabinet says, "We're gonna get the police out of Germany." I say that we can do the same with Dutch soldiers, who we already deployed last year on Curaçao and on Sint-Maarten, just to maintain order when there were riots and there was plundered. So we help and respect the police by deploying the army. Your idiotic rhetoric doesn't help with that. Dan Urk, chairman. Yeah, I convicted "Urk." I condemn any violence. I did it today. I did it last Sunday and Monday. Don't wake up the false suggestion that we wouldn't. The PVV condemns any violence, throughout the Netherlands, by immigrants and indigenous people. Any violence is wrong. But excuse me if I do point out that in many cities in the Netherlands, as so often in the past few years, immigrants have the upper hand every time. That's what's happened now. Even though the entire Chamber is standing by the interrupting microphone: that scum needs to be dealt with!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u23	On 19 January, the PVV Urk, through the number 30 of Mr Wilders' electoral list, made an appeal to do everything possible to prevent the measures from being maintained. What was Mr Wilders thinking at that time, on 19 January? Did he think they were talking about organizing a tea party, or about flyering, or pamphleting? What does it mean when you say you're gonna do everything you can to make sure it's not enforced? Then you say, stand across from the enforcers, stand across from the cops. It took five days before Mr Wilders finally came up with a call not to use violence. Five days! I would like to know from Mr Wilders why it took him so long to kick out that smoldering fire in his own constituency and why he waited until there was a GGD test street on fire. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u24	That is not the case at all. We have always condemned violence. On Sunday, when there was violence in Urk, we immediately condemned it. That's what I'm responsible for. I did. It is total nonsense to say that, as half the city council in Amsterdam has done, it is said that the implementation cannot be done or that you want to do otherwise, then leads to violence. That's total, dirty and false rhetoric. It's not your fault. Not only me, but also our representative in Urk has distanced himself from the violence once it took place there, just like almost everyone else in Urk. The people there are good. There are rotten apples in there, but most of the people in Urk are good. We have distanced ourselves from the violence and we will not let you talk us into firing fire. What you're doing right now is firing fire. Do you think the people at home are waiting for this? Do you think the people at home are waiting for us to catch each other flying over who set the fire and who didn't, and what motion did and didn't? People who are watching television now want us to ensure that order is restored. They don't want to see a House of Representatives arguing with each other. Now there's a lady from the VVD on it to make her political point, to argue. Stop it! Make sure we move the cabinet to restore order instead of: what time were you true and what is it like in Urk? Then I say: that with you in Amsterdam is childish, destructive stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u25	I hear Mr Wilders roaring and roaring, perhaps in the hope that I will drown, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u26	Please don't move.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u27	The people at home are certainly not waiting for politicians, local or here, who say: I call on everyone to do everything possible to ensure that this is not maintained. That's calls to face our agents. No one took responsibility for that: the PVV Urk did not and Mr Wilders did not. Taking responsibility is a thing, Mr. Wilders. It is fine if you say you want to stand up and call for things and raise people, but take responsibility if you are then called to account here. When people here, in parliamentary democracy, ask you whether this was okay, do not say: we should not have done that and we will never do that again. I followed the debate here last week on the child care allowance: poignant, profound. I have heard all my colleagues from all the parties here say: we are also going to see where we have made mistakes, we are sorry, this is terrible. Except for one person: Mr. Wilders. He said: it's all your fault, at least it's not me. That's what people aren't waiting for: that little pattern, that tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u28	No, people don't wait for fighters, like the VVD lady. They're not waiting for people to catch each other flying. Everyone knows the PVV is behind the police. Everyone knows that we condemn those who use violence. As long as the PVV exists, everyone knows that we are defending people who use violence; people of ethnic origin, but also of indigenous origin. Unfortunately, immigrants are overrepresented: your friends from Turkey and Morocco, from Amsterdam to elsewhere. The PVV always does. I won't let you talk me into it. You're not the one to hold me accountable. You're too big a mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr. Chairman. My friends from Turkey and Morocco? I'm allowed to respond to that, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u31	That's what you're sticking up for right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u32	I'm allowed to respond to this, aren't I? I am a Dutch representative of the people. I am Dutch and I stand up for Dutch. Focus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u33	Well, that's fine, but you're also standing up for your friends from Turkey and Morocco now, and I wouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr Wilders is in any case quite binding again today. We've determined the situation in Urk. In Den Bosch it was generally all of Bossche bulbs that caused the nuisance. But that's not what my question is about. My question is about the military's commitment, because you want to talk about the content, so I'm going to ask you a question about that. On the basis of Article 58 of the Police Act, the army may indeed be deployed. It's up to the Secretary of State to decide. Mr Wilders says: we did the same on Curaçao, so let's do it in the Netherlands. I happen to be a spokesperson in the field of kingdom relations. The army has indeed been deployed there, but only to protect vital objects. In the squatters riots a few decades ago, military objects were deployed, for example trucks. But the army wasn't sent on the streets to maintain public order. I asked the police, "Would you like it?" Is it necessary for us to deploy the army? They say absolutely and resolutely: "Don't do it. That won't be necessary. Moreover, they are also not operationally equipped to do the work as we do." Does Mr Wilders recognize that image?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u36	I think they can do a lot more than you think. The Army has units standing by to provide assistance. That can also occur in riots, because within the army and also within the Marine Corps people get training in what is called "crowd and riot control" in military terms. Also within the infantry units have been trained to carry out patrols in inhabited areas, including maintaining public order. I'm quoting people who know that now, defence spokesmen. I'm sure it's possible. Of course, I didn't say that all 45,000 people in the armed forces are capable of doing that either. Not only within the Royal Marechaussee, but also within the Marine Corps, within the infantry, within various service units, it is certainly possible to help and assist the police. The cabinet must then see what the instruction of violence is and what they can and cannot do, but there are plenty of possibilities. I would find it unacceptable that if we have an army that can do this, which is partly capable of doing so and, once again, is trained in crowd and riot control, we will immediately deploy German and Belgian police here in the Netherlands. While we simply have the Dutch army, of which it is also one of the tasks to assist the civilian authorities if necessary. That's one of their tasks. I believe that this is the third basic task that can be done, but the Secretary of Defense will correct me when it is the fourth. That's possible, and that's what I'm arguing for. The cabinet doesn't say they never want to. If you have read the Cabinet's letter correctly, you know that they only say "that's the difference "that they're not ready yet. The Prime Minister, or whoever signed the letter we received this morning, says: we are not going to do it now, except for the Royal Marechaussee. In the second phase, we may be able to use more military forces and some special services for this, as was also used by farmers. It is only at the very last stage that we come to what I call "the green on the street." Because I no longer want to see the Netherlands become unsafe for two or three days and resemble a kind of Lebanon, I say: do it immediately. I don't want any Germans and no Belgians here. I want to deploy our own army.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u37	We've already deployed the police force. There is still some discussion about how the chain of command is exactly, but that will be a question for the cabinet. What Mr Wilders is doing is evoking an image as if we were filling whole streets with green berets.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u38	No. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u39	No, but that still calls for a... don't pull that lip up right away. I'm just trying to have a serious debate here. The image that is called up is: we fill the streets with green berets, the tanks come in, the kneecaps are shot and we are done. But it's very specific: who can you bet at what time? Do you need the army now? The police say, no, that's not necessary. On the question of whether the deployment of the military could perhaps be broader and more specific, they say: yes. My appeal to Mr Wilders would be: make it very specific. What exactly does he have in mind? He doesn't want a green wave through the streets. He wants to focus on where the police can be supported in her duties, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u40	Look, the police are overloaded now. That's what a police representative says, I said just now in the event of an interruption, and the police unions say that too: they're overloaded. Rotterdam put in a triple of the ME, of the police, yesterday, and you can't keep doing that for long. Again, it is at the expense of other tasks that they have to do, such as detective duties and other tasks. The police are already overloaded, will not last long, we already have too few police in the Netherlands and other tasks, such as catching detectives and crooks, will be compromised. So I'm saying we've trained those soldiers, which aren't all of them, but some of them are trained to help, so put them in wherever it's needed. Put them in big riots, so not just anywhere. I'm not suggesting that tomorrow in Emmen we're just gonna put in green berets for no reason. No, if necessary, as we have seen from Rotterdam to The Hague, in Venlo. Put soldiers in there to assist the police. In my own beautiful Venlo a few weeks ago an announced demonstration of people who acted against the corona policy would take place, and then vans with ME'ers had to be driven to Venlo from Eindhoven. You know: Eindhoven is located 60 kilometers west of Venlo, and that was announced. So it's not that you just have enough police in every city like Venlo or a village like Echt or anywhere else or that it's soon available. Well, what I want to do is, if it is necessary, and only if it is necessary, in large-scale riots, which I will immediately submit to the Chamber in a motion, to deploy the army. Not just, not everywhere, but where there is need and where there are large-scale riots, they must be ready and be able to help quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u41	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u42	That the police are understaffed, I acknowledge. I also acknowledge that it is not always easy before there is ME. It's just that it's not like the army just has a box full of people available to be deployed. That only makes sense if the police themselves see it, so that it can do so under the direction of the police, just as it should apply to the Marechaussee. By proposing to deploy the army in a green blur, the words of an unappointable mayor are reinforced that we are in some sort of civil war. I actually want to stay a little away from that kind of gradations. Let's take care of that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u43	Well, there are also mayors, not only of Den Bosch, but I also think Roermond's name has been lost for a while, which doesn't rule out the fact that the board, the mayor, among other things, responsible for public order, needs the army at some point. Again, the ideal thing would be of course if the riots just stopped, if all those people use their common sense and stop making the Netherlands unsafe. It would be best if there were no more riots from today. But I'm afraid that might not be the case. I'm afraid that's what they're announcing on the Internet anyway... that that scum is gonna go through with it for a while. Then I say to the spokesperson Mrs Kuik of the Labour Party: it ends once with the police, who cannot make a triple effort every night when they already lack people. Then you have to choose. Then I'd rather choose the army's efforts, which we're proud of and have proven that they can do it, than have agents from Germany perform here in the Netherlands. Please don't do that, with all due respect to the people of Germany. What we can do ourselves, we must not let others do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u44	I would like to continue on the point of Mrs Kuik, but a little more in the legal sense, to see what you mean. I think there are two ways to use the army: either if the mayor requests assistance, to be approved by the cabinet, but the initiative must come from the mayor. We have received a letter that does not exist with the mayors at this time. Another route would be state emergency law. I believe that the Act is extraordinary powers of civil authority. Is your question now whether the cabinet is taking that bill off the table? The cabinet took that law for the first time last week. I didn't get the impression you were the biggest fan of that. What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u45	I want it to happen if it's necessary. I have just mentioned that there are two mayors who have not already ruled that out, including the mayor of Roermond, I think a CDA mayor; forgive me if I am wrong. Probably in practice, if those riots go on for a long time, then whether the mayor will ask for it, if the police will say it at some point. Again, the police are doing a great job, but there's also a limit to it. Talk to cops about what they've had to do over the past few weeks and days. That's gonna end sometime. They can do a lot, they do great work, but they can't do the impossible. They can't commit triple for weeks or days in a row. That's gonna end sometime. So then it's the mayor, in all probability, who's going to ask. And if there are any other legal options, I'll hear it from the cabinet. But I think if it's necessary, there's got to be a way to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u46	Repetition is often the power of the message, I sometimes use it. But my question is very specific. Do you want the Cabinet, in order to make this possible, that Act extends extraordinary powers of civil authority and more commitment? Because if you do it by the other way, you must do it through the municipal councils. I understand that at least you have a representative there in Urk, so he should ask the question, not you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u47	Nice joke, but I'll call on the cabinet immediately and then you have to see how you're going to legalize it, whether it's through the mayor or through law, if it's necessary, when it comes to large-scale riots, not to look at Germany and Belgium, but to make sure we can deploy the Dutch army. I'm sure they'll find a way to do that, if they want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mr Wilders has a point when he says that the police are having a very hard time and that they deserve our appreciation. And I think they're doing great right now. Last night, but also the days before, there is a very good example of that. Last night was a lot better. There are mayors who indeed support Mr Wilders' plea, but I do not think that the vast majority does. He says: we do not need it. The police organisation itself says: we do not need it; we have it very hard, but we manage. Defence has also stated that we do not need it. Experts in the paper say so. The word "nonsense" has even fallen, and that it would not be a good plea for reasons of substance. They're not trained, they're not well equipped. Look at the police dogs and all that stuff. That's in good hands with the police. Again, they're having a hard time, but they're gonna make it. Then who are we as MPs to know better? That is my question to Mr Wilders. Why does he know better than the people of the police organization or the people of the Defense Department?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u49	Let's just say a subtlety from the colleague of the SP. Once again, it is not true that I have to repeat what I have just said to Mrs Kuik that they have not been trained to do so. That's not true. Again, the army has units standing by to assist in riots in its own country. That's what units in the Army are for. Also in the Marine Corps a part of the people get training in crowd and riot control. They are therefore trained to do so. For all infantrymen, they are also trained for patrols in inhabited areas, and in addition to patrolling, they can also maintain public order, because they are trained in them. I hear it from the Minister if it's not true, but this is what I understand from the formal source. So stop repeating that the army is unable to do that. That they were not designated first, but that that is the police, you are absolutely right. But it's bullshit to say the army can't. They did that in Curaçao and in Saint Martin. That is partly comparable and partly not, but they can. No one wants it now, but it would be wise, for two reasons. The first, most important reason is what we have seen in the last few days. Yesterday, fortunately, it was a little less and let's hope it stays that way, but I'm afraid not. The days before that I have seen practices in the Netherlands, on television, on social media, in newspapers and I know wherever... We must never let this happen again! It cannot be that where the police are at risk for their own lives in Rotterdam fighting the scum in one street, there are not enough people in the other street and there are breaking in and shops are being looted. Even police stations were attacked in Rotterdam. People wanted to break into police stations. Molotov cocktails were thrown to the police. I never want to see that happen again. I think it should be. By the way, the cabinet doesn't completely rule that out, either. You say they don't want it. Not now, but the cabinet also says in the letter that this is a kind of last resort for them. I say it in my own words, but that is almost literally what it says: if all the other possibilities are exhausted, then it comes up, but it is not up for us now. I'll just say it in my own words. That's what the cabinet says. I don't want to see that footage again. If it happens again, it'll be up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u50	No one wants to see that footage again. This should be avoided wherever possible. This also means that there must be a good information position in these areas. You need to know what's going on and look for it on the Internet. I really think the police themselves are best placed to do that. In fact, nothing is excluded in the cabinet's letter, but if it is so clearly stated that the police can handle it from the police organisation, Defence, the mayor and the experts: yes, they have a very hard time, but they can handle it now, then we must be careful here from the Chamber to think that we have a better proposal for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u51	Once again, with the colleague of the SP, I say tribute to the police. I just don't think we can handle what happened in the last few days. If you can prevent it by a huge presence like yesterday in Rotterdam, where three times as many police are present again, compliments for that is great, but that does not last for weeks. They won't be able to do that in Rotterdam for weeks. They won't last for weeks in the rest of the Netherlands. If you pull that back and scramble it and there are riots again, I don't want us getting agents from Germany or Belgium. I'll say that again. Then we have German agents who should maintain order in Rotterdam or Belgian agents who should do so in The Hague. We have the Dutch army for that. If they can do it on Curaçao, they can do it in the Netherlands. We don't have to bring Germans and Belgians to the Netherlands for that, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u52	I share Mr Wilders' view that we have fantastic units in the army and that they could be very employable. But if the police, who have a good overview, who know what is going on and who may fall back on the ME, the military police and so on, now says that it is not necessary, will Mr Wilders go along with that? Does he see that the army should actually be the last step you would want to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u53	I don't mean to be rude, but I literally answered the same question from the SP. I would like to repeat it all out of courtesy and appreciation for Mrs Van Brenk. Again, I do not want to see again what we have seen in recent days, namely that shops are being looted, that cops and police stations are being bombarded, that molotov cocktails are being thrown at cops and that cops cannot jump in because they are already doing important work elsewhere. Then we just have a piece of anarchy, a piece of Lebanon in our cities. I don't want that anymore. So I'm convinced that if that happens again, we'll just have to have the army from then on. We should have done that a long time ago. I think we should have done that by now. I am now repeating myself, but I also say to Mrs Van Brenk: what Rotterdam is doing now by using three times as many people, you cannot keep doing that. Hopefully these idiots will stop using violence and riots, but if they don't, then the army will have to help, because there is only one goal for me, and in my opinion, for everyone, namely that our neighbourhoods will be safe again and that order will be restored. That scum has nothing to do with demonstrating, let that be clear. So many people want to demonstrate peacefully. There's something to demonstrate, too. There are thousands of reasons to demonstrate against the Rutte cabinet. I am also sure that Mr Rutte believes that it should be possible to demonstrate. Those people should be able to continue to do so, which is not at all under discussion here. It's about that group of scum that doesn't come to demonstrate, but it's about kicking riots, using force, setting things on fire, looting stores. And yes, if we have to, we have to use the military in large-scale riots. Again, if necessary, please!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u54	I don't think anyone in the Chamber and, more importantly, nobody in the Netherlands wants to see that kind of looting, mess and misery. Especially when you see how badly the shopkeepers get hit again. I would like to ask Mr Wilders one more question. I hope he will take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u55	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u56	I don't think military deployment is gonna be de-escalating. I think that such an apple or such an impressive speech as we have seen from the mayor of Rotterdam is going to have more effect than the army's deployment, and it could be "let's see if we can start fighting the army." How does Mr Wilders see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u57	No, I don't think so. There was a report this morning in the morning's newspaper, "I believe it was De Telegraaf," a report from a group app that according to that morning's newspaper the police are watching. I think it was Telegram, but it could also be WhatsApp. What did they say? That's where the criminals, the thugs are, so to stir each other up and say, where are we gonna do what next time? You have to make all the arrangements for that and you have to send personal messages, otherwise you won't get in. I will not repeat the words here, because they are too rude. But then those rioters say they're really only looking up to the army's efforts. They say they're not afraid of the police, but they're afraid of the army in words I won't repeat here. Then they also say, "We'll go on for weeks, sure." Of course every fine speech, from anyone, is welcome, but in the end the harness only bows to the hard hand. That is sweeping the streets of people who make the Netherlands unsafe. It has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u58	In my view, the discussion is mainly about how we can get less violence, not more. The army itself says: we do not know whether military deployment has a de-escalating effect. During the peasant protests streets were laid down with army vehicles. This happened here at the House of Representatives, but then it was also said: this works for a lot of people as a red rag with a bull. People get madder because of what's happening. How does Mr Wilders see it? 'Cause it can really have an escalating effect. That's the last thing we need right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u59	No, I want to put it in the neighborhoods where there are massive riots. In the cities and neighborhoods where there are large-scale riots, the army has to help the police. So it's not being used against the normal population. It's being used against the scum. It's being used against the criminals. It's being used to stop those looters from the stores, to grab those looters and throw them in jail. It's used in the neighborhoods where the police say we need support. That's what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u60	That's right: where these lootings take place, we need to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u61	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u62	What we can do even better is prevent these lootings from happening. The police say we have it under control; it's heavy, but we have it under control. The army says we're not trained for this. Mr Wilders just mentioned a whole list of army units that can be deployed, but the army itself says that this is not in our basic training, except for the military. That's part of the army, too, and it's also used to help the ME and the police. If the army itself says, "This is not our job," then as a politician, you can't say, "Well, we're gonna do it," right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u63	It's the army's job. It is the third basic task of the army to support civil administration in cases such as this, in riots, on request. So it is certainly one of the basic tasks of the army. And again, I don't want to see that anarchy reigns in the Netherlands anymore, that the scum raids the shops of those innocent shopkeepers, who are already struggling enough, that innocent people are burning their cars, that police stations are being stormed, that police vans are being set on fire. I don't want that anymore. We've seen that in the last few days. So apparently the police weren't able to solve that. If that happens again, deploy the army, the sooner and the faster, but targeted, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u64	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Words fail to see the images of the last few days. We see thugs attacking our agents, assaulting police horses, intimidating journalists, making businessmen miserable by looting stores. As far as the VVD is concerned, they're all being caught, they're serving their sentence and we're also making them pay for those charges. Mr. Chairman. I'll put my tickets in order, because I have some questions for the cabinet, to start with about the chance of getting caught. What is being done right now to increase the chances of getting caught? What are we doing, for example, to make sure that the police can share the images more quickly and to make sure that we can use the shopping cameras around them and that cameras are placed in places where we expect riots? What more can the police use of us to do online that tracking in the group apps Mr Wilders was talking about? I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. The minute these guys get caught, I want them in front of a judge soon. I would like to know from the cabinet how many times superfast law has been deployed in recent days and, if not, why not? Mr. Chairman. I would also prefer that the prosecution then goes for the highest possible penalty. It's not up to politics to prescribe that to the D.A., so I don't. But I do hope the D.A.'s gonna go for it. I can share that here. In our country there are severe penalties on matters such as sedition or open violence. You could go to jail for years. I would like that to be the case. Finally, the most important thing: our policemen. All women and men who have stood there day and night for our safety and health deserve all our praise and all our respect. With the support of the ME and the Royal Marechaussee they have done a very good job. I think we should think about that very carefully. I would like confirmation from the cabinet, and I actually read that in this morning's letter that we will always be prepared to provide more assistance towards all those men and women who work as hard for us as they ask. Because, Mr President, if I may add another sentence in conclusion: in every uniform is a human being of flesh and blood who goes out during the day or at night to do the job as well as possible and hopes to return safely to family and friends. They are there for us and I hope that we will always be there for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u66	Thank you. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u67	Mr President, a brief question. Very nice words from the VVD! Rightful appreciation for the police! It is also a good proposal to increase the chance of taking action and to see how quickly they can be tried. It's all people who have to do that. They're police people who actually don't have enough colleagues right now. You're asking for a quick trial at the state's attorney's office, which is under enormous pressure, and at justice, which is under enormous pressure. I think it is all very good words, but I also recognise that the police organisation is not at present sufficiently capable of doing so due to the political choices made in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u68	I recognise not only that the police need our attention in this area, but also that we have invested a great deal in this in recent years. I'll give you a few figures. 300 million went to the police. We've invested nearly a billion more, on top of the government agreement, in security. Knowing Mr Van Nispen a little bit, he's going to ask me if I think that's enough. No, that's not enough. Let me just say that. Saves him an interruption. Then he can use it another time. It is not enough, so I hope we will continue to do so in the coming period. It has absolutely our attention, but we support it in different ways. Then it's also about us speaking out here with each other that we're behind our agents.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u69	These amounts are, indeed, very different, but let me say that I am indeed pleased with the support and appreciation for the agents. We all have to share that with each other here. But for support and appreciation alone, those cops don't have enough. I do not think it can be explained that they have to fight with rioters at night and fight at the negotiating table during the day for a fair collective agreement. Those are also political choices. The Minister acknowledges the need for money, but does not have the budget for it at the moment. Those are political choices. We can now also, with appreciation, help these agents by supporting them financially and instructing the Minister to find the financial space to conclude a fair collective agreement for all those agents who are in front of us every day and every night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u70	I understand Mr Van Nispen's point, but the negotiations are under way. Mr Van Nispen will agree with me that this debate is not the place to repeat it here in the Chamber. But I think the sound towards all our agents and enforcers, boas, standing there, is pretty clear, namely that we stand behind each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u71	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my thanks and respect to all our aid workers and agents. They stood and stood before us in the utmost need. Over the last few days I felt a lot of anger and sadness seeing all those images and most of society with me. It is very painful to see that this kind of riot, scum, goes on the streets, loots and also hits the shopkeepers who are already so hard hit by the corona crisis. Then we're talking about the Seaman, the Kruidvat and a cigar farmer. I mean, there's no logic in that either. But journalists were also threatened and abused. We are very clear: totally unacceptable. Mr. Chairman. I understand that in Den Bosch, for example, these are mainly boys of 20 and 25 years old who often live at home and who have often been shown before in connection with misconduct. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he recognizes this. Could we not deal with these guys in a way similar to the way we deal with the soccer hooligans, with a reporting obligation? A database of coronahooligans. 'Cause this drives on. These were guys who were on the streets with old and new. How are we going to equip the congregations to get these guys in line? Mr. Chairman. Then the army. It can be deployed on the basis of Article 58. The Minister has that authority. I myself think that the police can handle these wheeldrivers very well, but on what criteria does the government decide that more should be done than simply using a tank to close a road? I'm really talking about the physical deployment of military personnel. Mr President, I have to finish. At the same time, it was heartwarming to see that all neighborhood residents went out after the riots to clean up and assist shopkeepers and that they had crowdfunding actions. Let's go hard on the wheeldrivers, but let's not forget that the larger part of our Netherlands consists of very decent, thoughtful and sweet people. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u73	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with the words of disgust that colleagues have already expressed and with the words of appreciation for mayors, policemen and aid workers. The big question is how, in the coming weeks, we can support the affected entrepreneurs and citizens in getting them back together. A few questions. First of all, is there sufficient capacity to apprehend perpetrators? It would serve the sense of justice greatly if we could simply make people individually responsible for what is happening, through sufficient capacity in the police, justice, courts, you name it. A second point. We have to face up to the fact that the corona measures are a major shift in our society, especially for young people: no sport, no gym, no college, no school, no pub. We can't deny that a lot of people are walking on their gums. That is not a reason for this kind of riot, but it is a factor that plays a role in society. To what extent can the cabinet be advised by behavioral scientists and criminologists when it comes to the tension and the measures that exist? Shouldn't there be some kind of OMT in that area? Mr. Chairman. If anyone has much appreciation for the police, including from his background, it's me. But we also need to make other sounds. I've been approached by neighborhood agents. They say, for example, that their connection to the district has been seriously inadequate lately. They have received signals that they could not deliver in their own organisation. I do not want to say that otherwise there would have been no riots, but I would like to get a reaction from the cabinet, because they are our eyes and ears in the neighborhood. Finally, Mr President, about the damage. It is, of course, incredibly dramatic that entrepreneurs who are already under enormous fire can also see their entire store destroyed. And how does that work? In a lawsuit, people are individually convicted of the damage, and if the verdict is irrevocable, which may take years, the amount will be paid. For example, what can a body like the CJIB or the Damage Fund Violent Crimes mean to these entrepreneurs in the short term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mrs. Van Brenk has a question for you, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u76	I also struggle with that last point: how can we help those shopkeepers? The cabinet spends an incredible amount of money to meet shopkeepers. In any case, I am struggling: if this cannot or cannot be reported through insurance, and it certainly takes so long, could the cabinet at least do something to accommodate these shopkeepers? There won't be hundreds of thousands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u77	If you have two minutes, you leave out a lot. I am therefore pleased with this question. I've been looking at the website of the Covenant of Insurance. They are very hopeful about the compensation they can pay anyway. So that's one thing. A second point. I know that the compensation measure is often imposed in criminal law; then the government actually pays all the damage, prior to the time when the defendant or the defendant. Convict has been able to do so. Perhaps the Minister of Justice and Security will see opportunities and space there, but that can only be done eight months after the verdict has become final. Maybe there's room there? What I do find is that an overly active government can give the impression that we do not hold the individual people who caused this responsible. And let one thing be clear: those people must be responsible. This is an interesting issue; it is young people who have been burdened with heavy financial burdens for many years to come. Well, they should have thought of that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u78	Yes indeed, this is my struggle as well. I have a motion in which I would like the cabinet to look into how we can accommodate those shopkeepers, but I certainly do not want us as total citizens to take over the debt of those rioters through taxes. But if we're looking for that together, and you're already pointing in a direction... But I can imagine that shopkeepers can't wait eight months, so is the CDA at least together with 50PLUS looking to compensate those shopkeepers as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u79	I don't know what the 50PLUS campaign budget is. I do know what it's like in my case, so I think you don't have much to say about my commitment. First, let's listen to the cabinet, what they want. I have so far caught the cabinet, where it is about assisting entrepreneurs, a great generosity. And well, maybe we can expect more on this point than you might think.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u80	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few days we have seen the worst of our country come up: how the streets were destroyed, shops were destroyed. But we've also seen the most beautiful thing in our country. I spoke to Maaike from the Primera in Den Bosch yesterday. She had turned 50, I understood. And that there will be 200 bossians, with brooms, to congratulate her and put a heart under the belt... That says a lot. And that there is a weblog in the Netherlands that calls itself "unnecessaryly offensive," yet starts a crowdfunding action to help entrepreneurs... That says a lot about who we are, too. And this scum, what it is, must be dealt with firmly, as many have said. I very much appreciate the way in which the police have dealt with this in recent days, and they really deserve our full support. Because the last few days our streets have been on fire. And if there's a fire, you don't need more pyromaniacs, you need more firefighters. Then it doesn't help if we take the same approach here in the Chamber by profiling colleagues ethnically, by coming up with solutions that are not yet the beginning of a solution. Then we must say here, from left to right, that we support local authority, with all the measures they need to take to get order back on the streets. That is what we as Chamber today, with the government, have to radiate. And when I said to the cabinet "we support the cabinet when it comes to dealing with corona," I say again today: we support local authority and the cabinet when it comes to dealing with these wheeldrivers. Mr. Chairman. But to think that we can only put this with the police - that's not enough. We do need an army to find a solution in the end. An army of brothers and sisters, of fathers and mothers, of cousins, uncles and aunts, who say to those boys, "Because those are the ones between 24 and 14 years old, "You're not going out tonight; don't even think about kicking mess." If that army gets up, and if we give the space to our policemen and to the local authority, then I am convinced that we are going to see the Netherlands again that we all want to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u82	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u83	Madam President. They've been horrible scenes these past few days. Shops plundering, destruction, aid workers and law enforcement: it's out of the question. This goes against all the standards and values we stand for in this country. Of course, peaceful protests must always remain possible and be open to people, especially for young people who are struggling, but rioters and rioters must be punished quickly and severely. We support the efforts of enforcers and administrators to maintain public order. We've seen them do great work in the last few days. Citizens' support through tips is useful, but we need to stay far away from civilian militias. Mr. Chairman. I have the following questions for the cabinet. How is it ensured that enough aid is available on time in municipalities where it is likely to get out of hand? Is it possible to bet consistently on a solid record for rioters and on a complete damage story? On social media people are called to join riots and to provoke a cat-and-mouse game with the police. What more can be done to identify and address sedition early? Finally, about the army. As far as we are concerned, this is not a political battle point. Looking at how the decision-making process is now taking place, we trust that, without delay, there will be a scaling-up of intelligence and policy where necessary. Army green is not a taboo for us and I do not see for the cabinet either, but the police blue must remain a leader. That's what we stand for. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice about curfew. The emergency law invoked by the government states that a legislative proposal must be sent to the Chamber without delay in order to ensure that its operation continues. When is this law to be expected? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u84	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u85	Mr. Chairman. "The riots have nothing to do with protesting or fighting for freedom." According to Prime Minister Rutte yesterday on Twitter. We couldn't have said it better. The lockdown and curfew are a huge violation of our freedom. They are ineffective and not proportionate. A protest against this is an important and inalienable democratic right, but the ruining of entrepreneurs, the attack on hospitals and the smashing of windows is not, of course, and has nothing to do with protesting against the lockdown, as Rutte himself acknowledged. If you saw the footage of the looters, it was like an army was pulling through our streets. But it was not our army, it was an army of rioters from the suburbs of large cities. Anyone who claims otherwise is scoring cheap political dots. Because by dismissing all the criticism of curfew as harassment or sedition, which I have heard some people do, the opposition threatens to be silenced and that is very dangerous. It is precisely now that we must be able to speak out against the radical measures taken by the cabinet. We need to protect vulnerable people, we need to scale up care and release the rest of the country. That would be our approach. So let's be clear: we will never agree to deploy the army to ratify corona measures or to stop the possibility of protesting, to make your voice heard or to demonstrate. We are extremely pleased that the police, together with the cabinet, indicate that they are almost in control of the situation, that they can handle it, that they have acted effectively and de-escalatingly. We'll go along with that. So we do not agree with Mr Wilders' proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u86	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u87	Mr. Chairman. A lot of people are mentally burned because of the corona measures. Many of those Dutch have watched the riots with bewilderment and disbelief. DENK strongly condemns what has happened in all the municipalities where riots were, from Urk to Roermond and from Stein to Rotterdam. Hospitals were pounded, test streets were burned down, destruction: it's a gross disgrace. Yesterday afternoon I was at the Groene Hilledijk and Beijerlandslaan in Rotterdam-Zuid. The wooden-plated doors and windows, fire marks and shrapnel: it was terrible. Politics is called for leadership in such times. Then I don't mean the route where people are stirred up, like the PVV did in Urk. I am not referring to the route of division, as Wilders does by interfering like a hyena in the debate when he first signals someone who does not resemble the son of Henk and Ingrid. No, in these times, unity is needed. In doing so, violence is condemned, regardless of the skin colour of the perpetrator. We support entrepreneurs, regardless of whether they are from Urk or from The Hague's Schilderswijk. In addition, we stand directly in front of our police officers and aid workers. Regardless of whether you agree with the corona measures or curfew, or not, everyone in the country should be told: stick to the rules, stay home and do not riot or destroy stuff. Mr. Chairman. DENK supports our police officers, who have the hard task of maintaining order. They did an excellent job last night. DENK supports all those entrepreneurs who are already having a difficult time because of the corona crisis and have suffered even more damage on top of that. DENK also stands for all those people who have watched the riots with bewilderment and disbelief. This is what I want to say to all these people. The inciting rhetoric of the far right is not helping our country any further. Let us fight side by side to bring the Netherlands further. It is time for unity instead of division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u88	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our Dutch cities have been plagued by violence in recent days. That violence has nothing, but nothing, to do with demonstrating. With pain in the heart, we watched a small group of rioters drive neighborhoods and shops to the destruction. They were horrible images. It was terrible for the entrepreneurs who hit it, for the agents and for the journalists involved. Luckily, I say, it seems to have gone a little better last night thanks to good police and enforcers. Them therefore fits a great compliment. Mr. Chairman. The first priority must now be to maintain the peace and justice of the perpetrators. The curfew must be observed, rabids must be tracked down and, where possible, rapid justice is a good means of making it clear that what has happened here is unacceptable. My first question concerns the Minister of Justice: can I assume that people who are attacking or threatening journalists will also be subject to rapid justice wherever possible? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. It is also important that I agree with several colleagues on this point that the damage can be recovered. I understand the D.A.'s plan is to do the same. How is the Minister of Justice going to support the prosecution and victims? After all, it will not always be possible to recover all the damage on the perpetrators. We see nice crowdfunding initiatives emerging, but what happens to the baker at the corner that can't count on that? We've got a Damage Fund on Violent Crimes. I would actually like to call on the government to see if you could make a similar provision for affected entrepreneurs who are not insured and may be at risk of falling apart. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr President, I will conclude. I think it's important now to keep the peace. Comparisons with war, however understandable from the emotion, are not sensible. D66 understands citizens who want to contribute to security in their city, but enforcement is really a task for the government. The curfew also applies to football supporters who want to help keep the peace. Finally, I would like to hear the Minister of Justice's confirmation that this is also the starting point for policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u90	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Attacking cops. Journalists, security guards, animal attacks. Shops looting. Burn it. Light heavy fireworks and throw them at the police. It's unacceptable and criminal behavior. Much support and thanks to the police and all the others who have given so much this week to contain the riots. Is the Minister expecting more riots in the next few days? And, if so, are the cities prepared for that? What about police and mobile units after days of riots? How will the affected entrepreneurs be helped? Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of footage of looting and destruction. A lot of unsubs can be tracked down with those footage, and one by one will be tried. The police have indicated that she is the boss of the situation, however difficult it may be. We need to take that signal seriously. We have to stand by the police and support them. The monopoly of violence lies, of course, with the government, but the solution to the riots is no longer violence from the government, but violence is slowing down and preventing it. That's what the police do. Plundering and destroying has nothing to do with demonstrating; let that be absolutely clear. Mr. Chairman. I live in Geleen myself. There were a lot of riots there two days ago. In advance, I saw social media calls. I've been looking for a few. "MENSEN, EARLY COMES ALL OF YOU!!!! MORGEN WILL BE CAREFUL!!!" And indeed, Monday night I stayed at home for it there was a police helicopter circling over the city. There was M.E. in our street, too. You saw rioters running back and forth. It's really a pain in the ass to go through that yourself. That has nothing to do with the corona measures, that has nothing to do with protests, that has everything to do with rioting, looting and destroying everything. We must prevent the right to demonstrate now being restricted by those types of rioters. There is also a group that demonstrates non-violently, because they do not agree with the measures. That should remain possible. Demonstrating is a fundamental right that must be protected. Especially at a time when government intervenes deeply in people's lives, action is indispensable for our democracy. But it's nonviolent. Mr. Chairman. Finally. This does not remove the need for clear frameworks within which such a demonstration can be carried out safely and in accordance with the rules. That is why I ask the Minister how he intends to achieve this in cooperation with the mayors in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u93	The riots are horrible. Shopkeepers are in tears, cops are besieged night after night with stones and heavy fireworks. It's horrible. I have no understanding for that. Those rioters need to be dealt with. What is happening at the moment with the images that are also circulating on social media? Is there enough capacity to digitally track those tracks? How many of them have already been caught, how quickly can they indeed be tried and what role do the capacity problems play in this? Mr. Chairman. The group of rioters is most likely very diverse, but the Prime Minister said he is not interested in the background. He's not going to look for sociological explanations, because they're all criminals anyway. And yes, those rioters are criminals, too. And they also need to be addressed. But the question is whether it is wise to say: I am not interested in it, I do not want to know what the background to it is. Because if you want to avoid this in the future, it's appropriate to make a good analysis of how things could get so big so fast and get out of control so quickly. Wanting to understand something is something quite different than understanding something. Mr. Chairman. Then our agents. We are asking them to do the utmost right now. They deserve all the appreciation for that. Their loyalty is enormous, but the question is how great the loyalty of politics towards the agents is. For how is it that they are standing there with too few colleagues and too high a workload? How can they fight with rioters in the evening and fight at the negotiating table during the day for a fair collective agreement? We must start to appreciate these agents more, with more colleagues but also in the financial sense. Those are political choices, that's possible. The minister says he doesn't have the financial space for that. Then we have to give the Minister that financial space, because I do not think our agents have very much to appreciate, only fine words and only applause.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u94	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u95	Thank you, Madam President. You can't agree with cabinet policy, you can be very angry and you can protest peacefully. That's what we see happening in our country. But what we've seen in the last few days has been painful. It was sad to see that there was violence against aid workers, against policemen. It was sad to see them being crowned with fireworks, a test street being set on fire, shops being looted, entrepreneurs being in tears and a hospital being attacked. We have to reject that. Our mayors and enforcers are now on. The Christian Union believes that the Chamber should give them the space and the confidence to act and to bring peace. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the cabinet says that quick justice is being done, that quick convictions are being made, and that the damage must be recovered from the perpetrators. We support that, but we know that this is difficult in practice. We also know that it is possible to rely on group liability. I call on the Cabinet to make use of it and to use it. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is impressed by fathers and mothers who take their child off the streets and address their younger ones, as that mother in Bergen op Zoom said: "Come with me, I have warned you, and I still work in the care." These are the mothers, the fathers and the soft forces we need and they deserve our support. Mr. Chairman. We're also seeing some kind of vigilante on the street right now, soccer supporters. I agree with what Mr Groothuizen said. The curfew also applies to them. I would also ask the Cabinet to give its opinion on this. Then I'll lock up. I myself live in the city of Groningen, where it has been peaceful so far. Last Monday there was a mysterious snow writer who, when we had beautiful snow, wrote on the Grote Markt: "Hold on." He was found and he indicated: "I decided to send something positive into the world." His message has reached our entire country. I would like to repeat that message here: 'Hold on'.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u96	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mr. Chairman. Grimmig, a little year after the outbreak of this pandemic and only two months after the slight euphoria about the vaccine, the atmosphere in the Netherlands suddenly becomes a lot more grim. The ability of society to absorb is being tested. 50PLUS still has confidence in this ability to collect money, but that is more so than it is thanks to the approach of this cabinet. Guideland? Not today, not yesterday either. After all, the cabinet has fallen over a supplemental affair that is unprecedented. Curfew, riots, looting and a failed vaccination strategy, suddenly we dangle at the bottom of the lists and the swing is out of this cabinet. The land is coronamoe and for many life is upside down or on collapse. Seizing hospitals, looting stores of hard-working entrepreneurs, and helping that last electronics store in your shopping street to the gallemies, how dare you! Ahmed Aboutaleb put it just right, citizens have come to help clean up and that crowdfunding action for the Primera in den Bosch: the cabinet has certainly dropped, but from the country comes hope and solidarity from all sides. That is also the Netherlands, which gives me confidence in a successful outcome. This brings me to the last point and to a question to the cabinet. The damage caused by the nightclubs falls to a relatively small number of entrepreneurs. The cabinet spends more than 100 billion in total to reduce the economic damage of the pandemic. A generous support for those entrepreneurs who have taken the hits is obvious, as far as I am concerned, and that is probably only about millions. Can the Prime Minister state whether or not he is prepared to look, in cooperation with insurers and municipalities, at fair compensation for the entrepreneurs affected by riots and lootings? Because if the cabinet's coronal policy had been impeccable, that curfew wouldn't even have come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u98	Thank you. We have come to the answer from the cabinet. I'll see if there's any need for a brief suspension. Fifteen minutes? Then I'll suspend until 3:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u99	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u100	Mr. Chairman. I will, if I may, speak a single introductory word. The questions will then be answered by the Minister of Justice and Security, respectively, and the Minister of Defence, reflecting their respective policy areas. My main conclusion of the first term of office, given also the views of the cabinet, is that we agree unanimously on the fact that we are unanimous in rejecting violence and destruction by criminal rioters. Whatever we agree on, Chamberwide and Cabinet, is that the reaction of the police and the mayors to the riots deserves our respect and support. I think that ultimately this cohesion between the Chamber and the Cabinet is still the most important thing today. All the Dutch, all the people who follow this live broadcast, expect this solidarity from us. And quite rightly so. Violence against the police is unacceptable. From other people's property, from other people's company, you don't touch them. Press representatives leave you alone. They must be able to do their job in the service of our democracy. That is the essence of what we stand for together. I understand very well that many people, including myself, find the corona measures difficult and that these measures cause frustration. In fact, I understand that some people disagree. But that can never be a reason for people to show this kind of behavior. We know that the vast majority of people adhere to the measures and that 99.9% of the Netherlands disapprove of this violence. What we've seen has nothing to do with fighting for freedom. We're not taking these measures for fun. We do that because we fight each other against the virus. It is the virus that is currently restricting our freedom. So we must win the fight against the virus, because only then will we all get our freedom back. I also agree with those who drew attention to the role of others in this debate. The role of parents. The role of friends. The role of the environment. If they know that their friends or their children are doing this, call them and make sure that this behavior stops. We have a joint responsibility here. Mr President, I should like to say this in an introduction. Again, not many questions have been asked to the cabinet, but the questions that have been asked will be answered by both ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u101	I asked one question specifically to the Prime Minister. It was about his first reaction, which I understand very well, especially in the emotion. Asked about the cause of the riots, the Prime Minister said: "I don't think about it. I'm not looking for sociological explanations. This is purely criminal behavior." As far as those rioters are concerned, I agree. It's pure criminal behavior. But I think we should all acknowledge that the group is diverse. You've got a bunch of criminal hitters out front, and you've got a bunch of runners, in all likelihood. I am not a sociologist either. The Prime Minister and I have that in common, but I think it would be wise to have others look for explanations, not to have understanding, but to be able to understand something. That's different than understanding. With the aim of preventing it from getting so big so fast in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u102	In itself, Mr Van Nispen has a point to make. My reaction was indeed a different one. What I want to avoid is that, by looking into the failed youth, we are going to give a failed sports career or whatever happens to people, which is driving them into this kind of crazy behavior, some kind of condolence of that behavior. Mr Van Nispen and I agree on that. Of course, you always have to analyse exactly: what is happening here and what can you learn from it? In order to prevent it next time, or at least to combat it widely. But that doesn't change what it is, and I think we agree on that as well: purely criminal behavior. It has nothing to do with a struggle for freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u103	Then I do think we agree on that. But also about the fact that the Prime Minister's initial response was a little too short. Maybe that was explained by the emotion, I can imagine that, but let us indeed do that analysis and not pretend that it has anything to do with understanding or wanting to justify anything, because that is not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u104	I'm holding my first reaction. I think it was good, because I don't want the Netherlands to think that the Cabinet or the Chamber is currently working on all deep-social treatises to show some kind of condoning of this behavior. That is why my reaction was so firm. I agree with Mr Van Nispen who says that you have to analyse it and then learn lessons from it, so that you can react even better to this idiotic behaviour in the future. But it must not be seen by anyone, and certainly not by the perpetrators of this violence, as some sort of confession. From: you see, the cabinet also sees that I had a difficult childhood. And: the cabinet also sees that we are having such a hard time. We are all having a hard time, but for 99.9% of the Netherlands that is no reason to resort to criminal violence. I think that's where the essence lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u105	Maybe something more of the order. I actually only had one question in this short debate and it was about the military's commitment. There are three rulers, I have invited all three of them, but to whom did you assign that question? Is that you? Is that the Minister of Defense or the Minister of Justice? Who's gonna answer the question about the army's deployment?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u106	The Minister of Justice is going to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u107	So I can't ask you that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u108	You may also ask me the question if you wish. I will then start with the answer, but the Minister of Justice will also discuss it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u109	Maybe I can give it a short try. Moreover, I do not always agree with the Prime Minister's introduction. It is good that people at home see that we are united in condemning violence. But I think that in order to reverse the violence, it is wise to use the army before, when I read the letter from the Prime Minister and the rulers, the cabinet intends to do so. Because what we saw less yesterday, but the days before in the evening, cannot be repeated. I now read in the documents that the cabinet, should it escalate further, what we all do not hope will happen is going to look at ME's and police officers from Germany and Belgium, for example. I would really like to ask the Prime Minister not to do that. At the time of large-scale riots, we in the Netherlands have a military force of our own which is partly equipped for this and of which it is also one of the basic tasks. Please, if necessary, deploy the Dutch army in large-scale and large-scale riots and riots, not the agents from Germany and Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u110	Those agents from Germany and Belgium are going to have a bit of a life of their own. There is normal cooperation here in the border regions. That's what this is about. In this normal cooperation in the border regions we support each other from time to time. It's not like Germans suddenly show up in Sneek or Scheveningen. But in the border regions Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands help each other. That is what is referred to here. Then about the defense deployment: there is. The Royal Marechaussee is currently helping in a fantastic way. The police and the Royal Marechaussee are working very closely together. I am truly unlikely to be impressed by what they have shown together over the last few days. We sincerely hope that it will be less after last night, but we do not know that. It may be that this is going to go on for a while. We hope not, but then we will all join forces with the police and the Royal Marechaussee. If it is necessary in the future to make more use of the Defense Department, we will certainly do so. We have done this in the past, for example when it comes to logistical support or the clearing of streets or squares, for example at the big demonstration in The Hague. And it could go on. That is always a decision in agreement between the Minister of Justice and Security on the one hand and the Minister of Defence on the other. There's all the rules for that. The mayors have an important role to play in asking for it. But at the moment, the conclusion of the police, as well as the mayors, is that as we are doing with each other now, the police can keep things under control. At present, there is no added value in making greater use of the defense than we do. But it's not taboo. If it's necessary in the future, we're going to take a serious look at it, but now it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u111	Saturday, Sunday, Monday I'll be right there yesterday, Tuesday we missed them, because it wasn't in order then. Then we saw, where the police stuck their necks out and rightfully and well engaged in handling the scum, that shops were being looted in other streets, police stations were being stormed, molotov cocktails were thrown, cars were turned upside down and burned down, and scooters were put together and burned. That's all happened. So you can't say that it hasn't been necessary in the last few days, because we missed them. We missed the bet, otherwise this wouldn't have happened. Fortunately yesterday it went well because of the huge effort of the police, but as I said in my term: in Rotterdam, the police deployment is about three times higher than usual. I say to the Prime Minister: they won't last, should the riots continue unexpectedly. They just can't keep it up. You write in your letter on page 2 that there is "intensive consultation with our neighbouring countries on police support." That's not about normal cooperation. You write it and Mr. Grapperhaus signed the letter on your behalf. I therefore believe that Mr Grapperhaus has said this in the media too about the use of ME from Germany and Belgium. Then I say don't do that. We can see the police can't handle it at some point. Unfortunately, there is also a chance that these riots will continue. The Minister of Justice says we'll call in the Germans and the Belgians. I'd say don't do that. We have our own army.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u112	On that second point: there is normal cooperation in the border regions. It may also be necessary in the future. But it is not, because that is what Mr Wilders suggested, that Belgian agents appear in Groningen or German agents in Sneek. Cooperation in the border regions is over and over again. The Netherlands also supports, where necessary, our colleagues in Belgium and Germany. This is our cooperation with these countries, with North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony in Germany and with Flanders and Wallonia bordering on the Netherlands, mainly Flanders, and a small part of Wallonia in Belgium. That's the normal approach we have. But no matter how much our police work, however much the support of the Royal Marechaussee is there, no matter how much further help we may need from the Defense Department in the future, you will never be able to prevent the wheeldrivers, the criminals, sometimes from doing things you say we don't accept with each other. Then there's a lot of hard work going on. The conclusion that Mr Wilders now attaches to this is that the army was not yet deployed, the armed forces were not yet deployed, and so it could get out of hand simply is not the right conclusion. That's not the cause-and-effect conclusion you can pull here. I really don't agree. It is up to the mayors and the police to say at some point: we need support. We can do that in all kinds of ways. There's no taboo on that. We agree on that, Wilders and I. But while in the operation police and mayors are running this in the right direction, with the full support of Grapperhaus, Bijleveld and myself, we should be careful that we don't think we know better here now. I think that's really unwise. Leave that to the mayors and the police. If they called for more, we'd be ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u113	My goal is also no different from that of the Prime Minister. That is to ensure that order is restored. Again, I saw Saturday, Sunday and Monday that didn't happen. So you can't tell me that everything is cake and cake and that something happened then that we couldn't have prevented. We could have prevented that. We saw yesterday that there are fewer riots when there is more commitment from people, in this case from the police. That could have happened Sunday, Monday and perhaps Saturday. That didn't happen. Again, I am not sitting here pointing the finger at who made mistakes, but we have to establish that the footage we saw entering the living room of rioting, looting street terrorists, scum, should not have happened. Maybe you couldn't have prevented everything, but you could have prevented a lot more. I say to you once again: the police, however good they are, cannot keep doing this with a triple effort in the Netherlands if these riots continue. Then you'll have to scale up. You say in the letter: we have options for that. Then we can call in the marshalssee. Option one is extra, even more military. Then we can look at more special services, and then finally there is the army. I tell you, use the army. They can help. They can patrol. They did it on Curaçao. They did that on Saint Martin. I do not want to see any German or Belgian MEs here in the Netherlands. You may say that it is not in Sneek, but if it is border cooperation, that means that Venlo ME's from Germany or Breda ME's from Belgium can jump in. I just don't want that. I don't want any German or Belgian MEs in the Netherlands. I just want our army to be able to do that. Please put them in. That's what they're for. They're here to help the police and make the Netherlands safe. You say it's not taboo. That's profit. But use them rather than beware at the very last minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u114	What Mr Wilders is doing now, I do not think it is sensible, and I do not agree with that either. He's going into surgery right now. Now he wants to prescribe in detail what to do. That's not wise. Let this be left to the people who are currently fighting for us: the mayors, the police and the Royal Marechaussee, with our full support. The link between cause and effect is simply not true. If only it were all that easy, it's just not. If it's necessary, we're here. That border cooperation is there, it's over and over again. Why should we suddenly end it, what is suddenly opposed to Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands supporting each other in the border area where it is necessary? I think that is very sensible, and it also fits with the very close links that the Netherlands has with both Belgium and Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u115	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mr. Chairman. It has been said many times, so I do it very briefly: great work that our policemen do. They deserve praise for that. I have been given a full overview of what has been going on in the rest of Europe over the past eleven months, because that has happened in many countries so often. Our police... I always say it... his maintainers and aid workers... and that's awesome to them. Mr. Chairman. I'll go straight to the questions. Mr Wilders wonders why we do not deploy the army. The Prime Minister has said a lot about this, but I would like to continue with that. Well, Defense is already being deployed in the form of the Royal Marechaussee which provides two platoons in exchange services, i.e. a total of four platoons. Other stakes are not at issue at the moment. We're preparing for all possible scenarios. Since the start of the corona crisis, I've had virtually daily consultations with the police department on how things are going. Of course, that's what this is all about. Mr. Chairman. In the cities where this is necessary, where we see people going to riot, the police and possibly the ME act. We've seen that in the last few days. We also saw yesterday that a scaled-up effort and good neighbourhood work create a manageable situation. Some of you have already complimented society. Because the signals from society are also very clear. We can condemn ourselves here, but society has also said: scandalous that this is happening, while we all have to fight that virus, and criminally what is happening, such as looting, destruction, violence. On the basis of which criteria, Mrs Kuik asked the cabinet to decide on the possible physical deployment of military personnel. That starts with the operational necessity. So that's when police and local authorities ask for it. That's how it's done in the Netherlands. For the sake of clarity to Mr Wilders, the Minister for Justice and Security decides on the basis of Article 58 of the Police Act, and he does so in accordance with the Minister of Defence. So there is always a kind of four-eye principle there, and I think that is very much part of our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u117	First of all, excuse me. You spoke my name so loudly, you scared me a little. That's why I had to chuckle, but that had nothing to do with the serious contribution. I did have one more question. Is there now a mayor who has made a serious appeal to the Minister in terms of more measures or military deployment than is already the case, for example through the Royal Marechaussee?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u118	No, I can answer Mrs. Kuik very directly. There's not one mayor who did that. As you know, I have an extensive weekly consultation with the 25 presidents of the security regions. I also speak to mayors who are not there separately when there is something special going on in their congregation. A while ago, I spoke to Mayor Dales van Velzen, who, with a very small ME effort, led an out of hand demonstration in such a good way that I do not even think you know that that has happened. But also of those mayors, whom I do not see weekly and not every week, no one has ever told me: would you mind thinking of the army?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u119	But it is true that, if one individual mayor says "I see the need to do something now," it is a consideration for the Minister to do so. That's right, would be my first question. And my second question: on what escalation ladder do you decide to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u120	You saw that I also consulted the Security Council for my letter this morning. I mean the President, but he in turn consulted the other 25 Presidents. We have certainly now exchanged a very solid model of consultation in this corona crisis, in which we do not exactly have one night of ice cream on those Monday nights, I can assure you. You may suddenly find yourself in an urgent situation here, but we will always involve the defence colleague in the decision-making process and allow that to take place in great balance and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u121	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u122	Mrs Kuik or Mr Wassenberg rightly asked how police and ME are now standing after days of riots. Of course that makes a change on the people. The Chief Constable, who was present all evening at the Security Council on 25 January at my request, said that the police are now in a position to do so, and we are looking at how things are going in the next few days. The police can still handle it. Again, of course, it puts pressure on the people at this time. The police have had quite a bit on her plate in Corona time. This morning we debated this in a different context, as you know, Mr President. We're watching it very closely. Mr. Chairman. The police are alert and well prepared. Of course it matters. There is a National Staff Large-Scale and Special Performance, the so-called NSGBO, and also locally there are so-called Bars Large-Scale and Special Performance. There is a great deal of consultation with all the triangles, as I just said to Mrs Kuik. That is an important point. It is operational and organized very well, and therefore in cooperation with the Royal Marechaussee, which provides assistance. The SP asked: how great is the loyalty of politics towards the agents? It was probably a rhetorical question. As I have always been here in the debate room, I think that loyalty is great. We know that, precisely because we have such a very well-embodied police force in our society with a very special position for the district agent, as Mr Van Dam said. When I start talking about the police abroad, I immediately get 100 questions, because that is really very special. So the loyalty is great. I'm in collective bargaining. Mr Van Nispen knows that I do not conduct these negotiations through the Chamber, but he also knows that three years ago, in 2018, I introduced for the first time that I, as a minister, sit around every three months with the unions, the corps leadership and my own officials to see how the progress of the agreements we have made is going. So we have a good, close consultation relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u123	The police officers are having an incredibly hard time right now. That was already before the corona crisis, which got worse during the corona crisis and the last few days have really reached a new low, you might say. A lot is being asked of them. Cops who just got off a heavy night shift have time to tell the minister, me or anyone else. Then they have to go to sleep and get back to work immediately. It's unbelievable. A deep bow to that achievement. But only in appreciation they don't have that much. I simply find it very hard that the negotiations on the collective agreement have stalled, because they do not have much to say about appreciation, applause, praise and fine words. Does the Minister understand that a lot of people find it very hard to believe that these collective bargaining negotiations have subsequently stalled? What's the Minister gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u124	A small correction: these negotiations have not stalled. They're still walking. They run in good consultation, let me put it this way. I find it very recognizable from my background that it is sometimes said: and now we do not want to go on. That is perhaps almost a rule in collective bargaining. But they're still walking. This is done in good consultation. I would like to stress that this cabinet has recognised the need for a structural reinforcement of the police. We just need it in society. In addition, we need to do more. There is also occasional money for this, as 17,000 police officers retire between 2019 and 2022. That's a whole generation. I have primary attention to that. I would also like to say that my colleague in the Finance Committee has given me the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u125	Finally, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u126	When the negotiations were stalled a month ago, the Minister's comment was that he did not have the financial space for it. This contrasts with what the Minister is saying now, namely that he will be given that space by the Minister of Finance. In the end, it is a political choice whether or not to allocate enough budget for this. I therefore urge the Minister to make the right political choice; they do not have much to gain from appreciation and fine words; we also need to value them financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u127	Now we're confusing things. I did not say that I had financial room for the collective agreement from the Minister for Finance. That also has to do with the fact that these are state-owned caos. So I'm not talking about that at first either. I said that, as a cabinet, we are doing everything we can to deal with the decline in the number of FTEs in the police force, because that is, of course, a heavy burden on the workload of the police, regardless of collective agreements. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Yeşilgöz had a question about the chance of getting caught.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u128	Mrs. Chicken, on the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u129	Yes. I did not bring it up in this debate because it is specifically about the riots, but it is, of course, crooked that the collective bargaining actually broke. So I would like to support my colleague Van Nispen's plea. I would like to ask the Minister if he would perhaps send us a letter on the current state of affairs, so that we can discuss it at another time, separately from this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u130	The negotiations didn't break. That's one. Two is that we should not do these collective bargaining through the Chamber. That's another thing. That is what I said a few years ago, and I believe that some of my predecessors have said the same. I would, however, like to promise that, once the negotiations are concluded, I will be accountable immediately in a letter to your Chamber. That's what I did last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u131	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u132	We're not going over it, but I've been working with this house for a while, and it was always very common to keep us informed about the progress. That's not so weird at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u133	But it's already been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u134	I have just informed you of progress, but negotiations are negotiations. If life becomes so transparent that I have to say everything now, it gets a little complicated. But it's gonna be okay. Mr President, I promise Mrs Kuik through you that I will come with a letter immediately after we have concluded the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u135	I hear the Minister say something about the area-relatedness and the neighborhood agents. I do not know whether he will come back to that later or whether this was the response to my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u136	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u137	Then I swallow my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u138	Mr President, if you will allow me, I would first like to address a number of questions concerning the possibility of taking action and the right of rapid action. Then I am looking a bit aside, at Mrs Yeşilgöz. What do we do to increase the chances of getting caught? First of all, meetings are closely monitored by the police, both on the basis of signals in the neighbourhood and messages on the Internet. For example, I was at the Almere police station on Monday night, where they really showed me how they did indeed via the Internet. I'm not going to tell you exactly how and what twenty people had come up with and talked to them all in advance. That's very handsome. In those thousands of messages that go back and forth on such a day, the police still manage to do it right. There's a lot going on. I've got a whole list of arrests. I will not read it completely, but I would like to send it to your Chamber in a letter, Mr President. Very quickly: in the night of Sunday on Monday about 250, Monday on Tuesday about 184 and Tuesday on Wednesday about 131. And that's still running, because the point is that cameras are still being watched and phones are being read out and the like to see how and what exactly. That's what the police are on top of, and there's a trace investigation going on in places where destruction has taken place. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say that almost as we spoke, an hour ago, was the first quick trial of the riots in Rotterdam. One way or another it's almost just men who threw a stone at a police car, two months of unconditional imprisonment. Of course, that right of swift action is simply used in cases which, in the opinion of the public prosecutor, deserve it. So that can also be in the case of a serious threat or simply a threat to a journalist, but that is not up to me. That is the principle of opportunity, and I really should not go into that, but that is really being looked at very carefully. By the way, a number of rabids have also been arrested, shockingly enough also real children of 12, 14, 15 years old. That is indeed something where we as a society... then I come a bit to the point of Mr Van Nispen. This does not alter the fact that it is criminal behavior, but we obviously need to deepen and see where this comes from. That's what my ministry does, along with SZW and OCW. That's definitely part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u139	Were you done with this point, the quick justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u140	I do have something about the law of speed. Today's Wednesday. If it's right, the first Museumplein aggressive is also in front of the quick justice. And the prosecution made an amended directive yesterday, but I have already said the necessary thing about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u141	All right, then I'll go to Mrs Yeşilgöz and then to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u142	Thanks for the answer. If those numbers can actually be in a letter, I'd really like that. My question was also what we can do to increase that chance and whether the police need something extra to strengthen all their good work online. For example, can the police share the photos and images she has before, so that these guys are more recognizable and so that we can all react to them sooner? The Minister may indicate whether that is appropriate. Is there any way we can have it all even sharper? Maybe the Chamber can do something in that too. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u143	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I admit that this should not be some kind of advertising block for the police, but yesterday in the Desk Wanted program images of the nights before were shown. The police are on top of this for the sake of society. As far as getting a better view is concerned, I am going to place that stone very carefully on the pond: I am also talking a lot with foreign colleagues about the double encryption, the double encryption, with all kinds of social media. I also raised them in the EU. We need to find a solution with which we can still leave that double encryption intact for ordinary citizens, but they can break open where there is suspicion of serious crimes. Because otherwise privacy will become a shield for crooks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u144	I hope I misunderstood, but did I just hear the Minister say proudly that someone who threw a stone at the police is going to get two months in jail? Did I just hear him say that? That's too ridiculous for words, isn't it? Someone who throws a stone at the police has to disappear behind bars for at least two years, three, four or five years. Did you just say proudly that someone who throws a stone at the police, people who do their jobs, got two months in jail? Let me first verify whether that is really true. It is good for the people at home to hear that we have a Minister of Justice from the CDA who is proud and who says, "God, what a hell of a punishment that is. Please tell me I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u145	When I report on judgments of the judiciary, there is never any emotion on my face, no matter what grimas that says. I shall report to you on this, because as Minister for Justice and Security, I have no further judgment on this. I did point out, however, that was Mrs Yeşilgöz's question about the speed limit. So that's what's going on. And at least someone was sentenced to two months of unconditional imprisonment for throwing stones at the police. By the way, that means that they get a criminal record and what else is going to happen. The judgment of that punishment and what one thinks of it is your Chamber or of society, but I am thinking primarily of the judiciary itself. That's why we have a separation of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u146	So we have a CDA Minister of Justice here who's all fine and says "I'm not going over it, that's what the judge is about" and here I saw it proudly say that person got two months in prison. I hope once again that people listen to this very carefully. It's almost a bounty on throwing stones at the police. If you throw a stone at the police, you'll have to go to jail for years. You're not behind your cops. You're dropping the police like a brick. When people throw a brick at the police, they go to jail for eight weeks. That's usually a third off. That means they're back on the street after six weeks. That's not how we solve the problems, Mr. Justice Minister. You will certainly have to find a solution at this time. How you do that, you're gonna have to find out. Whether you come up with minimum punishment, increase the maximum penalty or talk to the court; I don't know how you do it, but this is ridiculous. You make a complete fool of yourself in front of the whole of the Netherlands, in front of anyone who is watching television live now and hears a CDA Minister of Justice say: throwing stones at the police means sitting for six weeks and then you can pick out your next stone on the street again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u147	Once again, clearly, Mr Wilders knows this from me, because we have discussed this before, according to the doctrine of separation of powers, the executive power, the cabinet, is not about what is happening in the judiciary. We have had a well-functioning Code of Criminal Law and a Code of Criminal Procedure in the Netherlands for a very long time. We have a case law and a public prosecutor who are highly acclaimed internationally. The same goes for our police, by the way. It is ranked number 6 of the world ranking after a number of very small lands. However, the police are highly praised for the well-balanced way in which the legal system is exercised here. As the Minister of Justice, I am in any case in favour of giving them all the means and opportunities to do so. But as a chamber, you wouldn't want me to interfere with the outcome of what the judge is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u148	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u149	Mr President, I shall continue. Then we've got Mr. Van Dam's neighborhood agents. I recognize Mr Van Dam's signal and I do not recognize it. I don't recognize it when it comes to the fact... As I said, I have been in very close contact with not only the police department but also with several local chefs for some time now. I speak a lot of people at the moment in terms of working visits. Precisely the information from neighborhoods is widely used in determining the stakes. It's a success, too. I said that I also agree with Mr Van Dam, because I think we should make sure that our system of district agents continues to function waterproof and well. Mr Van Dam and I have discussed this more often. The massive retirement of agents should not put that under pressure. We agree. But I see a great deal in this crisis that it is still working really well, also as a result of what I have been reported about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u150	Are these all Mr Van Dam's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u151	I had another question from Mr Van Dam about the police's capacity to apprehend the perpetrators of the riots and also about the capacity of the courts. I've already said a few things about that. That capacity is really there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u152	Good. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u153	I'm glad the Minister agrees with me a little bit. In this point, I agree entirely with myself. Maybe that's good to memorize, too. The solution to getting out of this misery is, as far as I'm concerned, not the army's commitment. I agree that we should do it when we hear from the mayors that it is necessary. The solution is to get back in touch with the guests in the neighborhood through district agents and others. We have debates more often. Actually, there's never been more police than this. That is a merit of this cabinet. But especially given the current situation, the police are in the wrong place. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that more internal capacity goes to the so heavily understaffed district teams? 'Cause that's so important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u154	I'll come back to my yes/no. I see those neighborhood teams in this crisis are still really quite the sensehorns. What do you call that? have roots or the like in the neighborhood. By the way, I would also like to mention the boas, because we have hardly talked about them. Those boas are also incredibly good at information. I can see that this system is starting to be under pressure. Mr Van Dam and I are always in agreement on this. The money is there, but we just haven't enough people. I notice, for example, that there is a great deal going to emergency aid, just to say something. I care about that. We've talked about that before. I would certainly like to continue this debate with your Chamber this spring, perhaps on the basis of a letter, to see how we are going to solve this structuralally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u155	I don't need a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u156	Ah!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u157	Yeah, well, I don't want a letter. I just want this force to redistribute. Of course, it is right that we should pay tribute to the police and the boas, but I always mention the voluntary police. Maybe the Minister can do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u158	Yes. This morning I complimented the voluntary police in a conversation with the ANP. They are doing a very good job. Mr. Chairman. Then I come straight to the question that was asked about the soccer supporters. Look, let me start with this: the rules of curfew apply to everyone, including football supporters. So they too must be in by 9 p.m. Furthermore, I really like when people talk to each other about behavior. I also think it is okay if people help the police on the point of information, because we see a problem there. But the enforcement and public order really need to stay with the police, the KMar and the boas. I know some mayor might have dreamed of that yesterday, but I really want to be very strict about that. And then I still want to pay a great deal of respect to all the citizens who have the courage to say to a rioter or someone: stop it! For it is brave to do so; let it be clear. But that should not be made something, certainly not something structural or anything like that. And then I come to police volunteers, because they're there. That's a phenomenon that's been around for a long time. They are excellent. Those people are well trained. On work visits I've seen them actually work a few times and I've seen how well they do that. To those who, in response to these riots, say, "Oh, I would like to become a police volunteer," I would also like to say: sign up with your local police force and go to that training. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik's question about the riots in Den Bosch is somewhat in line with this, but I think that was not meant to be: were they mainly committed by young people with a criminal record? At least I can't say anything about that right now. If I've misunderstood the question, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u159	We know that in Den Bosch they are mainly boys aged between 20 and 25 years; they still live at home and have previously come into the picture due to misconduct. And then my question was: can we not opt for an approach similar to that of the soccer hooligans, with a reporting obligation? For a moment, I called it a very populist Coronahooligan approach. But the message is clear. I mean, there's got to be something going on with these guys, because we're in the middle of public order right now, but there's gonna be a time when you want them not to come up with something else next month. The group is mesmerized, I know, but that was a bit the underlying reason for my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u160	My mistake, I didn't write that question down properly; I apologize for that. But then there is the answer, and that is a bit in line with what I said indirectly as a postscriptum to Mr Van Nispen. We certainly have to look at why certain people have come to this, this criminal behavior. And in some cases, in addition to the punishment that happens, we must also adapt the further approach to those backgrounds, where it comes from. That's really something we, luckily, hang out with the municipalities, the police and the D.A.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u161	We will have another debate on this next week. In fact, I would like the cabinet to take that into account. My concrete suggestion: these are guys who have been in the picture for a long time, often living at home but are difficult to maintain; is then a similar football hooligan approach to do, how do we get these guys in the picture? In preparation for the debate next week, I think it would be a good idea to explore all these suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u162	Yeah, we'll definitely explore suggestions. I can't be here today...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u163	You'll come back to that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u164	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u165	And knowing Mrs. Chicken...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u166	At least the Minister will be prepared for a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u167	Yeah, well, then you've made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u168	Yeah, nice. Mr. Chairman. Then the advice by behavioral scientists and criminologists. Well, there are quite a few misunderstandings in the public debate. We're being assisted in several places by the behavioral scientists. First of all by the RIVM Behavior Unit. The National Core Team Crisis Communication, the NKC, has also been working together for a long time. The NKC is the spider in the web for all communications that take place in the context of this crisis from the government. But the effects of the policy are also mapped out by the behavioral experts. An example of this can be found in the annex to the progress letter corona sent to your Chamber last week, which contains the expected behavior reflections on curfew and social bubbles. However, it is right that Mr Van Dam should say that the fight against the virus is a great challenge for us; for young people too, who have to miss all these familiar elements in their lives, education and sport, and indeed suddenly look around and see their lives turned upside down. So that also weighs into the weighting in our cabinet, if we have to consider measures, because they must be necessary, effective and proportionate. Then there is the commitment for young people along other roads. Municipalities and the cabinet were already working on it through various support packages: youth unemployment: 346 million; learning disadvantages: 282 million; and education continuity: 210 million. I am not going to work out all of this here, because that has also been discussed in great detail in those letters of progress. In December, therefore, an additional youth package of 58.5 million was deployed in terms of the use of time and mental health of young people. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik asked for the municipalities to better deal with these rioters, but I have already gone into that. Mr Van der Staaij asked: how is it now ensured that there is sufficient aid available in time for municipalities where things are in danger of getting out of hand? Well, that's what the National Staff is for, and also the local SGBOs, as it's called. There is coordination between national and regional efforts. This ensures an optimal bet, and also a flexible bet, and it also ensures, for example, that it shifts and moves from place A to place B at a certain point, which is acted upon and responded to. And I have already said on my first points: the police are really very professional in that, along with the Royal Marechaussee, where necessary. Then there is Mr Van der Staaij's question about the extension law. The proposal for that extension law was sent to the Council of State with a polite request to advise as soon as possible. I therefore expect to be able to submit this to your Chamber in the near future. Mr Groothuizen asked: is the principle that only the police can maintain the curfew? We've said that the police are primarily in charge of curfew. Boas may also maintain in domain 1 under direction and in coordination with the police if it is safe. At the request of the Presidents of the security regions, I arranged this in close consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Royal Marechaussee maintains the curfew in the areas where they have the police duty in accordance with Article 4 of the Police Act 2012, as at the airports. The SGP asked whether it was possible to bet consistently on a solid criminal record and compensation for damages. The penalty requirement is, of course, up to the prosecution, but, as I have just said in response to Mr Wilders, a criminal record is of course very soon. I also explained in your Chamber last week that the corona fine itself, in the event of non-compliance with corona-related rules, such as the one-and-a-half meter rule, was put at €95 at the request of your Chamber in the autumn. The same applies to the violation of curfew on the street. But everything else, like cheating on employers' statements and forgery in writing, is just criminal law. I do not need to explain to Mr Van der Staaij that looting of shops and the like is subject to criminal law. And that's lick to pieces at all times, whether it's corona time or not, whether it's football supporters or not. Then I'll come to the liabilities. Of course, we've all seen those images of the destruction and the damage to the stores. And then those shopkeepers get that on top of it. I've been thinking about that for the last few hours, and I have a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u169	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u170	Of course, it starts with insurance. Let's get that straight. The Association of Insurers has quickly announced that the affected entrepreneurs do not have to worry about business non-life insurance. There is also an inventory insurance et cetera. They will then see what they can tell about those who did it and so on. Before this debate began, I had a discussion with the Minister of Finance and asked him: could we put together, you put in a fund, I call it at this time the company damage fund, coronarelles, which we can put money into so that entrepreneurs who are affected and who for any reason do not get the insurance cover they should have for their business can rely on? I promise you that I will work that out exactly and return to it as soon as possible in a letter to your Chamber. Now I am going to do this, because Mrs Van Brenk was right to say that we are going to compensate for the damage caused by our tax dollars. I would then like to draw Mrs Van Brenn's attention to the doctrine of subrogation. Subrogation is that you replace your creditor. We are going to set it up in such a way that the government is going to replace these affected retailers for the damage they have suffered if it is not to be claimed from the insurers. Then the government can just claim that money back from the perpetrators. That is something that insurers do, by the way, so it is not that I have suddenly invented something, but this seems to me to be a fair thing to help those entrepreneurs. That's my story. I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u171	Good. Then I have Mr Kuzu, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Grotehuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u172	That fund is good news for all affected. I am counting on this Minister to provide information on this as soon as possible, because the entrepreneurs affected really need it at the moment; the water is up to their ears. In addition, I have the question about the entrepreneurs who have been worried about their shop over the last few days and who rushed to their shop during the riots and were arrested and then fined. Is the Minister also prepared to make an effort to waive such a fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u173	Let me put it this way: if people have indeed gone to their shop or home in a particular emergency to secure that from riots and have done so in violation of the hours of curfew, it should already work so that they do not get that fine. In so far as, by any circumstance, that rule has not been properly applied, I will bring this to the attention of the police stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u174	That too is very nice, because that saves at least two motions. If he can put that on paper in the letter he's going to send, then I'm gonna have two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u175	Usually, you can put it on paper in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u176	If I understand correctly, it will be picked up primarily from the insurers. But the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice and Security have also said that they are going to join forces and that they are going to ensure that there is at least a pot. And it's called "company damage coronarellen"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u177	For the time being, however, I should like to say that between the previous debate and this debate I had about an hour and 15 minutes between the 'fund of corporate damage'. I do not call it business damage, because that in turn suggests that it is only about missed turnover, but it is about the damage done by companies. The fund of violent crimes should do that. They also did this in 2012 at Project X in Haren.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u178	Anyway, you'll come back to the effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u179	I'll get back to you on that, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u180	Can I give you a suggestion? I don't have such an inspiring new title, but I wouldn't put coronarelles in it, because I think we agree that these riots have little to do with corona and the measures, but that people are out to riot. I also had a motion prepared, in which most of my colleagues had already signed. I have also called for attention to be paid to residents. There has also been damage to their premises and similar damage. Suppose the Minister says, "I'm gonna include this in my plan, hold your motion, and I'll come back to you about how we're gonna look at that." That'll save another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u181	I will. That will be with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and will be in his home, but I will certainly come back to that. But this is what I came up with. I have to say that I understand the point, but then it has to be: fund corporate damage due to riots that the rioters said were in any way related to corona. But I have to narrow it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u182	We're not gonna come up with the title here. You should never do that. Mr Groothuizen and then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u183	Thank you for the Minister's commitment. I did ask for such a similar fund, so I am very pleased with that suggestion. It's also nice that he was able to find out so quickly. If it could always be that fast, it would be very nice. Unfortunately, that is not always the case, but a compliment. I do have one more question. Is it now guaranteed that all entrepreneurs who have suffered damage as a result of riots will fall into that fund, even if the damage cannot be recovered or if the insurance does not pay out? In other words, aren't there any gaps in that that still means that people are falling apart, as far as the Minister can see?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u184	It's supposed to be that no people are gonna be out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u185	That's a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u186	That is a good action, but I have another question about the answer to the question I asked: is there always enough time available for municipalities, for example mobile units? Of course, you can see that if there are riots in different places, then it will get agitated, also in terms of driving times and capacity. What is provided for? Are there any possibilities to prevent too little capacity if there were a large number of riots in a large number of places?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u187	I didn't want to do all that much here, but it just comes down to the fact that the police really have a very fine-measuring and professional overview of where what is happening. I know that one of the television sections had a little report a while ago on how that works. I went to Amsterdam Police last night. I have had extensive information on how this Dam Demonstrategy... No, not that... Sorry, I mean it was about how one picked up the Museum Square demonstration if you can call it a demonstration. That has gone very well directed. Also when it comes to a larger area, where the ME is in place 1, something else is suddenly going to happen in place 2 and maybe also something is going on in place 3, then the police know that almost always to solve it quite well. The few times that may not have gone optimal, we will really evaluate afterward, but never during the bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u188	We do not need to do a mid-term evaluation, but I am concerned that mayors who say 'it is really going wrong here and there is more to be done here' can trust that this call for help and assistance can be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u189	Yes. It may sound weird, but I keep a little bit of that in the evening myself. I also had contact with one of the mayors on the scene last night. That's all going really well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u190	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, Minister Grapperhaus, I'll give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to join with what the Prime Minister started: that of course we reject unanimously what is happening. I also welcome the solidarity on this issue between the Chamber and the Cabinet, and I am glad that we are also thinking fairly clearly about the united approach. I would also like to say, as the letter already states, that there is no taboo. This does not mean a taboo on the deployment of the armed forces, as has already been explained by the Prime Minister. That is why the Royal Marechaussee has been deployed in recent times, with ME-platoons. I would like to supplement Mr Van Dam's list with the appreciation for the Royal Marechaussee. I think he just forgot it. Right? So I'd like to add the Royal Marechaussee. He's been working with ME platoons to provide assistance. This is a military component, I would like to stress. So it's soldiers who've been deployed in that sense. There has been united and good cooperation with the police. Actually, I've only heard one question. That is the point Mr Wilders raised. There are indeed more parts of the armed forces that can be deployed. Those are also parts that are trained to de-escalate. I say that with emphasis, because otherwise there may be a misunderstanding about it. That is, for example, the Company in the West, which Mr Wilders mentioned, which has been trained in this way. These are marines, for example, but they are also a number of others who are trained in crowd and riot control. They can therefore also carry out this task if necessary, as the Minister for Justice has already explained. At the moment that is not necessary, because it is under control. But it is true that there are parts that can still be used and that we also have in hand in case that is necessary. Mr. Chairman. Let me conclude by saying: let us hope that this will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u192	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u193	There you go, Mr. Chairman. I've got 40 seconds. Well, a whole motion. It is, of course, about the military's deployment, now and if necessary in large-scale riots. By that motion, I mean the army wider than just the Royal Marechaussee. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to deploy the military in large-scale riots,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-649]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u194	Mr. Chairman. I hope this motion makes it, because it is necessary. Finally, I would like to say to the Minister of Justice that we are not going to win this terrible war with the thugs, which hopefully will soon be over, if we have a Minister of Justice who is celebrating someone getting two months in prison if he throws a stone at the police. I don't have any words for that. I really don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u195	I see Mr. Klaver. Do you want to interrupt? This is the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u196	Mr President, I did not interrupt during the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u197	No, I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u198	About this motion. I would like to suggest to Mr Wilders that she should not be put to the vote. I believe that there has been a good debate here and that the cabinet has clearly indicated... and also the whole Chamber.......................................................................................................................................................................................... This motion is essentially intended to show division, to say about people who vote against it: you see, other parties who do not want to do so, who do not want to do everything to catch these bad guys. And that's just not the truth, to be perfectly honest. So in the context of the unity we have both talked about, which we want to radiate here, it would be good to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u199	No way, Mr. Chairman. Again, I reject anything to do with division. I'm not doing anything for division, I'm doing something because I think it should be done now. So I'm going beyond just "in the best of times." And it would be awesome if a group that finds something should not table a motion here to ask for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u200	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u201	Finally. It's all right, Mr. Wilders. It's up to you. But it's not just about the words. It is not just about condemning the violence as it has been. It's also about how you behave, what words you choose. Either you're trying to dampen or you're inflammatory, or you're trying to keep together here, or you're trying to show off with a motion that's still poorly formulated, even a division in a room that just, to be honest, isn't there at this point. So again, if you really think that we need to work together on this, then so do we.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u202	Well, if the whole Chamber votes for my motion, then there's no division and then we can deploy the army quickly. So let's vote on it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u203	No, Mr. Klaver, it's really the second term. The fact that you did not interrupt in the first period is no reason to re-examine the debate. Then I go to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD. I see you have no motion on you, that saves!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u204	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I have had great doubts as to whether I would table that motion on compensation for the damage suffered by entrepreneurs and local residents, caused by the rioting scum. The Minister promised so clearly and said that it was such a good idea, that he would work very hard on it and that he would also come forward with a letter very soon, that I would not be making that motion at this time. I would like to thank you very much for your answer. I like to see how we're all united against the thugs and stand behind our agents. I hope that it is almost done with these riots or all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u205	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u206	Mr President, thank you. Thank you for the answers. I just wish the cops a lot of strength and good luck tonight. I hope it stays calm. Be nice, be nice. My call doesn't matter, but we can do this together. Next week we will have a more extensive debate to go into the issues that are going on, because of course it is not just a matter of here and now. There will need to be a deeper and more thorough look, including how we can prevent this in the future. Mr Van Dam will table another motion on my behalf, but he will explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u207	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u208	Mr. Chairman. I have a lot of emotions on this subject, but only one motion. I'm gonna have to read it to you in the light of time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona restrictions have a significant impact on the general population and young people in particular;]] [[Whereas feelings of discontent and stress resulting from these restrictions cannot be an excuse for violence, but may contribute to it;]] [[Calls on the Government to periodically ask relevant experts for advice on the behavioural and mental health aspects of this crisis, including the maintenance of public order and security, in the response to the corona pandemic;]] [[calls on the Government to involve these opinions in the decision-making process and to share them with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Dam and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-650]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u209	Madam President. The only thing I would like to add in the second term is that Minister Grapperhaus said: we are looking at whether we can also unlock telephone data in a European context and open it to check. I would like to remind the government of my motion of 11 November last year, which has also been adopted, in which we as a Chamber call on the government to oppose the development that messages from a European perspective can no longer be encrypted. It would be nice if we could get an answer to that in the second term, because this is very important in the context of privacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u210	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all three directors for the answers they have given in the first term. It is a good thing that an emergency fund is being worked out. It is a good thing that the Minister for Justice and Security is going to make an extra effort to forgive those corona fines of affected entrepreneurs. Then there's one thing left for me. I am glad to see that consensus in the Chamber, Mr President, but I do not mind submitting the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that inciting rhetoric and ethnic groups against each other as a result of riots do not help society any more,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-651]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for answering the questions. I welcome the commitment on that compensation fund. That saves me again the tabling of the motion that I had in preparation with Mrs Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u213	That's Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u214	Van Brenk, chairman, you're absolutely right. I'm sorry, especially to Mrs. Van Brenk. I would ask the Minister of Justice to send a letter to the Chamber for next week's corona debate on the outline of that fund. I am also asking that on behalf of Mrs Yeşilgöz of the VVD. I think there's just one more question left. I asked in the first term: can I assume that cases of violence against journalists, of course, are also eligible for rapid justice? I would like to hear confirmation from the Minister of Justice on that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u215	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg, you have the floor now, on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Chamber is united in condemning this violence. What it was less about, and that is understandable, is the right of everyone to express their real concern about the government's corona policy. Demonstrating possibilities must not come into the tribulation of the destruction caused by the thugs. The good must not suffer from evil. I just wanted to emphasise that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u217	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u218	Mr. Chairman. We are indeed united in condemning violence, but we are also united in the praise and appreciation of the police. Speaking of which, my information is that the collective bargaining negotiations have indeed failed and that there is no proper consultation at the moment, other than what the Minister said. So I think it's okay if the Minister corrects that. Yes, there has been consultation with the unions on all kinds of other issues, but at the collective bargaining table there has been a breakdown. I would like to hear from the Minister exactly what the situation is and why he has just said something else. My motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that police officers have had to carry out additional tasks with fewer and fewer colleagues for years and that this has been further aggravated by the corona crisis;]] [[noting that district agents can spend less and less time in the district and the preventive nature of the police work is under great pressure;]] [[having noted that the collective bargaining with the police failed to achieve a structural increase in police salaries and a bonus payment;]] [[noting that there is no financial room in the government's view to further increase the wage allocation;]] [[calls on the Government to make this additional financial area available as a matter of urgency and to increase police salaries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-652]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u219	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I am very pleased with the reaction of the cabinet, which wants to keep quiet and with its response is a huge support for all policemen and aid workers and for the affected entrepreneurs. The Christian Union is pleased that the cabinet is going to shape a way to assure them that their damage will be compensated. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I wish everyone very much strength to work for peace and for the maintenance of order and security this evening. Lots of good luck! I am thinking in particular of the fathers and mothers who sometimes have a hard time keeping their children at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u220	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u221	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the decisiveness and determination with which it wants to set up a fund to help corrupted shopkeepers and citizens. I already got reactions from people who said their bike or their car had been set on fire. I'm assuming that the reaction I received from the Insurance Association is a nice joint venture to make sure no one gets hurt. It's absolutely necessary to go and tell that damage to all those people who did it. I wish our men and women of the police every success in maintaining order and authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u222	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I see the Prime Minister wants a five-minute suspension. I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u223	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u224	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I'll go straight to the motions. The first motion belongs to Mr Wilders. I explained a few things about it in the first term. There is not some taboo on switching to Defense in certain respects, but in this form I am going to discourage this motion. Then there was the motion in part no. 650 on behavioral experts. I have already explained that we are doing a great deal about this. I will take a look at Mr Van Dam and Mrs Kuik and I can give the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 651 is a motion addressed to the Chamber, so I'll skip it. The motion in part No. I must advise against 652 because that is not the issue at the moment. I also said that this is a state issue. So it's not advisable. I shall now turn to Mr Baudet's question. He asked for his motion on last year's encryption. I can confirm I didn't suggest here that I would also like to see that not working towards a ban on encryption. So that's perfectly clear. I would like to say to Mrs Van Brenk, through your chairman, that a joint venture with insurers is not intended to be this way. Definitely not. I'm not gonna ask them if they're gonna let me in on their profits. In any case, in the letter on the contours of that fund, I will explain clearly once again: Mr Groothuizen and Mrs Yeşilgöz have asked how we are going to organise this in detail. Well, then I must have said the same thing. Finally, I had already said something about speedy justice and violence against journalists. I repeat that: where the public prosecutor considers this to be the case on the grounds of opportunity, it will be so, but of course it is not up to me to say anything about it. Mr President, I think I have discussed everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u225	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u226	I'll take a look at the MPs. We are going to vote on Mr Wilders' motion, but we can also vote on the other motions. It's up to you. Yeah? Then we'll vote on four motions later. For now, I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and Security and the Minister of Defence.
