ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I welcome the leaders: the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, and the Minister of Justice and Security. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I would like to meet with Members: six questions or first-term comments to each other, and six questions or comments to the Cabinet. I shall first give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Yesterday, with the support of you and the Chamber, I asked for a letter to the cabinet about the leaking of the documents. If I may, I would like to draw attention to this point of order. The Prime Minister sent an answer this morning, thank you very much. Fortunately, he says that he finds it inappropriate to leak from the cabinet or from people around the cabinet. But I asked for more than that. This isn't the first time. It's the innumerable time this is happening. I'm glad the Prime Minister also thinks it can't be done, but what happens now? I asked if, for example, a state detective investigation would be initiated. Whether that leads to a result or not, that often works demotivating for those in the cabinet or outside if they want to do it again. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister, once again, with thanks for his letter, whether he can no longer do anything, for example through the Rijksrecherche, to reduce the chance of it repeating itself. Because when people think they can get caught, they often think twice. I would therefore like to have a reaction from the cabinet before the debate begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u3	I think it would be a good idea if I gave the Prime Minister the floor on this point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u4	Let's see. We have, of course, also discussed this at various times in the budgetary documents. We are not prepared to do so. We don't think that's wise. We simply do not have any information on the motives that could be the cause or the causes themselves of these recent leaks, nor on the way in which they took place. And the circle within which the information has been disseminated in relation to the corona crisis is so wide, as we have to consult with a lot of people and with a lot of bodies, that it is reasonably expected to be fruitless. In this way, it is similar to the discussions I have had with your Chamber in the past on leakages around Prince's Daypieces. That is why we do not intend to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u5	Finally, Mr President, this is not a debate, so I shall leave it at that. But then it remains, my response through you, Madam President, is to the Prime Minister. Then it will continue to exist. If people know that they can leak for the sake of a political interest or their own gain or a social interest or anything else without being investigated and without being sanctioned, it will continue to happen. If the Prime Minister says in advance that he is not prepared to put the National Criminal Court on it because the group is too large, it will continue to happen. This is a point of order and not a debate, but I will table a motion on it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. Then we shall begin the debate. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we are seeing what we do not want: re-emerging infections, and as a result more hospital and ic recordings. The care is once again incredibly difficult. Unfortunately, we also know that we do not escape measures. But for my group, that is more and more a diabolical dilemma. Of course, people have the freedom not to be vaccinated, but as far as we are concerned freedom also includes responsibility for yourself, but also for others. We do not want people to face each other, because we have to do this together, but my group finds it increasingly difficult to explain that the silent majority that has been vaccinated is now being restricted in their freedom. They have taken responsibility. They have helped to reduce people's illness and reduce the burden of care, and to get back to normal as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. All these measures affect the lives of people and entrepreneurs, but the corona pressure on care, long covid and delayed treatments and operations certainly do. We must not take measures and decisions lightly. We must, as politicians, be prepared to make difficult choices sometimes, and we must also explain these choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u8	How many interruptions did we have again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u9	Six.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u10	Sixteen?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u11	Six.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u12	Well, I can always try! Approximately 85% of Dutch people have been pricked, vaccinated, vaccinated. Yet we are in the Netherlands with a problem in the care. We have about 1,000, 1,100, 1,200 people in the hospitals who have corona. The problem is even of such a degree that regular care needs to be scaled down here and there. I wonder why. With your party and your coalition, you're hunting down the unvaccinated. People are not allowed to go to the football field with their little boy on Saturdays if they haven't been poked. They must then be tested first. They can't take their daughter to the pool. They can't even sit on a terrace anymore. How do you make it up! I wonder why. Why don't you honestly tell the Dutchman that you just don't have the care in order, rather than hunting those unvaccinated ones? Why do you not honestly say that you have ensured that we in the Netherlands have a care capacity that is far below the standard? For example, we have far too few health care nurses: nurses who can help people in the departments and in the ic's. We are dangling in an international comparison when it comes to the number of ic-spots somewhere at the bottom of the states. Why is that? That's not because of the unvaccinated, it's because of the VVD. That's because of your party, which has managed to cut down on care rather than investing in care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u13	First of all, I would like to say that we in the Netherlands simply have good care. I am not going to let you say that this would not be the case. I realize the ic is having a very hard time. I am also aware that the ICI is understaffed on a number of points, that there is a high absenteeism and that over the last few years we have been asking a great deal of the ICIs and staff. But I am also honest with you and I think we should also tell that story to people in the country that we can't just add up the ic-beds, that we don't just have the staff to do it. That's not a question of money. If that was the problem, it would have been solved by now. It's really a matter of having enough people to work in care and on the ICUs. I agree with you that we need to look more at this flexible shell. But we can't take care of that either from today to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u14	That's right. We can't do that from today to tomorrow. You should have done that a long time ago! The PVV has been calling that for years. I noticed that Mr Levi was on one of those weird programs yesterday. I think it was Jinek. Mr Levi said that, of course, they could have said one and a half or two and a half years ago: we are now going to ensure that we get one and a half times more ic-spots and staff. That should have been settled by now. How on earth is it possible that we have a problem in hospitals in a country with 17 million people and with 1,000 to 1,200 people with corona? You can't do that! I thought you were supposed to take care of it years ago. It goes without saying that it can't be done. You're late now. But why didn't you do that a few years ago? Why didn't you make sure that we now have enough staff and enough ic-spots? You've done the opposite. You've closed ICU spots. You've closed down hospitals. I wish you hadn't! Mr. Chairman. We're not changing it today. The sad thing is that the VVD doesn't change that in the future either. The VVD will continue to close down hospitals in the future. Why don't you be honest with the Dutchman: we failed, we should have? Why do you not say honestly: because we have failed, we are now going to ensure that the unvaccinated are not allowed to go to football and the pool without a shot?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u15	I don't think closing hospitals has anything to do with this. I do think there is a real shortage of capacity in terms of staff for the ic. But again, we can't just solve that. And I also think that the PVV ignores the impact of lying on the ic a little too easily. The PVV thinks we should let all those sick people flow to the ic. Like it's such fun in there! I think it's very bad for people if they end up there. They have to lie there for a very long time and they have to rehab for a very long time. I don't think you should say: well, that's what we want; even though we have a lot of ic-beds, it's our strategy to fill them up as much as possible. I think we should look at that as politics. Fortunately, so does the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u16	I heard Mrs De Vries from the VVD speak of a division in society. I wonder whether she realises that the proposed measures have made the division of society worse, especially since in October the percentage of people tested positively who have been vaccinated increased to 44%. So 44% of the people who have been vaccinated have been tested positive. They may be getting less sick, but they can transfer the virus. But they all get a QR code. They're getting a coronapas. We also saw it happen at the Amsterdam Dance Event: 1,000 infections while people needed a QR code to get in there. How can you insist that the extension of the QR code, the coronapas, is the golden egg that is needed? How can you keep it up?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u17	I am absolutely not saying that it is the golden egg, because I think that the basic measures are the most important. That's that you keep your distance from each other, that you wash your hands and that you provide ventilation. I think that these measures are simply very important. If we were all to comply with these measures, other measures might not be necessary. You are talking about division, I do not really like to take that word in my mouth, but I am also getting more and more trouble with the whole group that is going to be vaccinated and which we must therefore hinder in all kinds of activities when we do not take this kind of steps. I think we should be aware of that, too. It is a large silent majority that may not be heard so loudly, but I think we should certainly look at that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u18	Look, that's another misdemeanor, so give the freedom back to the people who've been vaccinated. I would also like to point out that the figures of the RIVM show that 44%, or one in four people currently on the ic's, have been vaccinated. They get less sick, I admit, but it doesn't say everything. So in those basic measures I can go a long way, but this is about expanding, for example, the functioning of the coronapas. This is about expanding a number of things that increase the division in society. Can I assume that the VVD is also going to crack some critical notes about the division in society because of the measures that are going to be extended here by the coronapas, which will only increase that division in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u19	I regret that only one side of the story is highlighted, and that is the story of the non-vaccines. Of course, they have the freedom not to be vaccinated, but I think that this includes a responsibility. Nor do I want the vaccinees, who, as far as I am concerned, have done a very good job of being vaccinated in such a large number, to all suffer from the measures that we then have to take to ensure that those unvaccinated do not overtake our concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u20	My third point, again, is a misguided one: to relieve the burden of care, to spare the hospital staff. That has just been mentioned in the debate with Mr Wilders. We should have scaled up the ic capacity much earlier, but that was left by this cabinet. However, we are faced with a fundamental choice. We can choose to take drastic measures every time we see a peak in the number of infections and hospitalizations that limit the freedom of a lot of Dutch people. Or we can choose to invest in the things that really matter: steer the right measures. So no coronapas, for example, but ventilation. So no expansion of the operation of a QR code, but the scaling up of the ic capacity. I hope that Mrs De Vries will make a real point about this in the rest of her contribution, otherwise these are empty words, dry arguments, circular reasonings that the Netherlands does not have any use for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u21	I will come back to a number of elements in a moment. Of course, ventilation is important, and we should definitely do that. But that's what you want. So what is the alternative to these measures? I think I've heard you say before: I'd like to go back to the 1.5 meters. I think that's going to have a big impact on people, too. You can also think of the group size or limit the number of people at home. I'd like to avoid that. And to prevent that and yet to give people the space to do activities and just try to live their lives as normal as possible, but also to give our entrepreneurs the room to earn their living, I think you should want to look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u22	It is perhaps a good time to recall that yesterday the VVD voted against a motion from me to bring the ic capacity to the European average. Then there's that care infarction that was just referred to right now. That was there before corona and that's because of the VVD. However, we are here today, of course, to discuss the current measures. But what is going to happen on 12 November may be much worse. The VVD is in the process of amending the law to allow the QR code at work as well as in hospitals. So my first question to Mrs De Vries is: what percentage of nursing staff, so doctors and nurses, has not been vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u23	I would like to begin with the first part of Mr Van Haga's speech. Because we don't arrange any more staff or ICU beds with a motion here. That kind of symbolization may sound fun for the outside world, but we just don't settle it with that. We can't get more people on the ICUs with that. Then you really have to do other things and you really need a long breath to get that done. And then your second question. I think that was how many people have been vaccinated who are now on the ICUs, if I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u24	No, it wasn't. I don't suppose this will go away from my interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u25	It's an enlightening question. Otherwise, I'm gonna give the wrong answer and maybe we'll get a lot more Van Haga on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u26	The question was this. We're gonna have that QR code in the hospitals if it's up to your party. What percentage of nursing staff, i.e. doctors and nurses, is not vaccinated and is therefore going to have a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u27	I understand from Mr Kuipers that about 90% of the staff have been vaccinated. But if others have different figures of that... I'm going to take what the experts say.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u28	In general, physicians are more cautious with these kinds of experimental vaccines, so the percentage is slightly higher. Anyway, let's assume 10% unvaccinated. I don't want to... What's the Minister shaking his head about now? What kind of annoying behavior is that? Then I think: just keep playing on the phone, but don't go shaking while I'm saying something here. Anyway, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u29	I have not seen it myself, but it is good to pay attention to the MPs and to limit the non-verbal as much as possible, I say to the Minister. Soon you will have the opportunity to respond to the input. I call Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u30	I have to say, he had some attention, but it was a little weird attention. I went into that. Anyway, let's say 10% hasn't been vaccinated. We're already having a massive heart attack. Don't you think that this measure is going to implode the whole thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u31	What I understand is that the cabinet is looking at the optional possibility. We all still have to do this legislative process here. We are going to discuss this in detail: what consequences does it have and how should you do it? In this case, it would be optional. However, there are also staff in the care that say: at hepatitis B we do not have any difficulty at all. It is also said that this is a mandatory vaccination for people. If you don't want to meet that, you can, of course, but you'll find another place to work because it's too dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u32	Finally. Mrs De Vries just called it a symbolic motion and said that you don't take care of it in such a short time. In conclusion, I think eleven years to arrange decent care is sufficient time. You've had it, but you've let it get completely out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u33	I will refrain from saying that we would not have any decent care in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr Hijink of the SP and then Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mrs De Vries of the VVD just said that additional measures, such as tickets, might not have been necessary if the basic measures were to be taken seriously. The problem is, I think, that precisely because we have tickets, the basic measures are no longer respected: do not shake hands, give each other space, ventilate, and not too large groups together. Does Mrs De Vries agree with me that it would be much smarter to take measures that we know are working, rather than betting on measures that have not yet been proven to reduce the number of infections?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u36	I think it is very good to stick to the basic measures, but we have also seen that this is becoming increasingly difficult for people in the country. We advise not to shake hands, but it still happens a lot more. Keeping no distance happens much less in the Netherlands. I think we could say in an ideal world that we would very much like all these basic measures to be respected. I'd like that, too. But in practice we see that this is not the case. Then you can say, "Okay, then we're gonna take some really tough measures. Then we close sectors again and say that certain activities cannot be done. I want to see how we can make these activities possible. I want students to be able to go to school and learn. I want people, also for their well-being, to be able to do something nice again. I want them to be able to compete and meet. I think the corona access card could be a solution to that. Is it totally ideal? Is that without any risk at all? No, but I don't think all the other measures are either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u37	The tickets were intended to reduce the number of infections. That is what we discussed in the previous debate. That didn't work, because the number of infections is increasing considerably. A sneaky addition to the entrance tickets was that more people would be vaccinated. That effect has been very limited. Then you can say that it's totally blind staring at those tickets, what the cabinet is doing right now, just isn't gonna work? So you have to go back to the measures that we know do work, for example working at home. The cabinet is now coming up with a half-baked plan: go home to work 50% of the time. People who can do it have been working at home almost 50% of the time. So that's not gonna work. If you are fully committed to the measures that we know they work, you should say: work at home as much as possible, as far as you can. Exactly as the call was before. Does the VVD agree with the SP that we should actually do that call again now, because you know that you will prevent contacts and that this is the most effective way to control the virus?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u38	I think it's also good that the homework advice has been looked at again. But I think you should also look at recent times, when there was also a homework advice. Keeping to that was very complicated for a lot of people. There is a need that we have seen with the students, to see each other, to meet each other, and to go to education together. You noticed this also with a lot of employees, and especially with the younger people, who still need that contact, also at work, to do things with each other there. Once again, it seems that you have a different purpose with the corona admission ticket than we had in mind with it. For me, it was really something to make more things possible, to give more space for activities without all the extra restrictions that we should otherwise impose. In this way, we could all participate in society again and the entrepreneurs could also turn again, not optimally, absolutely not, because it is still spicy. For me, that's the purpose of the corona pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u39	It's wonderful that that's the goal, but if it doesn't work demonstrably, then it might not be so convenient for a means that hasn't been proven to have done enough, to build up and expand even further, even to amateur sport. Then why do you not come at a time when the caregivers themselves state that we need to contain more quickly and take more stringent measures, for example, with an assignment to work fully at home, rather than with a non-binding advice to work halfway home? Then you just have to take firmer measures, also because the virus is now going around so fast, including among vaccinated people who enter with their QR code somewhere. That doesn't work. So you have to find another solution, which is to contain what we have done before, with the measures that we know are working. I would like to ask the VVD again: is the VVD open for this? Or are we going to take the chance, look at it again for a few weeks, in the hope and with the fear, no hope, but fear that we will have a few more doubles later, to get much stricter measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u40	In my view, then, I am going to get into the rest of my story, and we are trying to avoid a number of things with the sets of measures we are now putting in place that we no longer want to see. I fully agree that these basic measures are extremely important. But I think you should also find a balance. What is there support for in society? What additional measures can we impose on all those vaccinees because a limited group does not want to be vaccinated? I think you should have an eye for that, too, and that you should also give room for those vaccinees. This is not the ideal package, absolutely not. I'd rather have it different, too. I would also like us to be able to do it only with these basic measures, but that is not going to do us any good. And there really are even more stringent basic measures, such as a mouth cap obligation and a number of other things, which are now included in this package.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u41	I think Mrs De Vries should just tell the honest story. That honest story is right now: even if you've been vaccinated twice and have such a beautiful QR code, there's no certainty that you can go to large meetings with that QR code and be together with a lot of people without it leading to a massive spread of the virus. I think that's the honest translation you have to say when the virus is going around as large-scale as it is at the moment. So you have to look at other measures that affect vaccinated and unvaccinated people, measures that we know have worked before, such as working at home and shaking hands. That has everything to do with the way the cabinet communicates. If you say to people "you've been vaccinated twice now, you're ready now, you're successful and enjoy your freedom."Of course, that's a bit of the message. People are going to listen to that and then you're going to get exactly what we're seeing now, namely that people are taking their freedom and that those basic measures aren't being taken seriously anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u42	Then I come back to my story that at least my group finds it increasingly complicated to explain that we are also asking a lot of questions from a very large group of vaccinees. On the contrary, the measures proposed by Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP affect that group. There will be no escape from the fact that that group too will be touched, I believe, but I have also wanted to outline this as a diabolical dilemma. We impose all kinds of restrictive measures on that group again, while they thought: I have been vaccinated, we are going back to a more normal society. And if that doesn't work at the moment, then I think we should look very closely at how can we spare the vaccinees, the large group of people who have been vaccinated, as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u43	I would like to come back to the issue of hepatitis B vaccination for healthcare workers. I think it is very important to keep the discussion pure, because there is no vaccination requirement for hepatitis B, not even for care workers. There is a duty under the labour law for the employer to offer the vaccination, not for the employee to take the vaccination. And the employer can say that no risky work can be done by the worker who has not been vaccinated. But that is really something other than a total vaccination obligation. If we're gonna make comparisons, we're gonna have to do it right. I wanted to make that point anyway. I also have a question for Mrs De Vries. You say a number of things. That we shouldn't steer on ic-capacity. I agree. That we also want as many people as possible to be vaccinated. I totally agree with that. Let us now assume that the corona admission certificate can provide a 100% vaccination rate. I don't believe that personally, but let's think positively. You say that the ic capacity is sufficient in principle and that we should not extend it further, because that is not realistic in the short term. But we know that even at a 100% vaccination rate, unfortunately, vaccination does not fully protect it. So we'll keep contaminations. The ADE has already been mentioned. People will go to the hospital wards and to the ICU, because we do not have 100% protection for vaccinees. Besides, there's a flu wave coming. We have the seasonal effect. Do you expect us not to have to expand or impose other restrictions even if we were to reach 100%?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u44	With the first part of her story, Mrs Pouw-Verweij had a point. I should have been a little more nuanced there and not talking about a duty, but the fact is that the employer can simply say that there is another job to be sought. And then the second. I didn't say I wouldn't want to expand the ic. If that's what people are for, it might be part of the solution, but we don't have those people right now. Then I'll find it complicated and you'll have to look at what other measures are still working.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u45	You also say a number of times that it is very annoying to have to sell to the vaccinees that measures are also coming for them. I get that. I think that everyone in this room feels that frustration from society, from: boy, now I've done my duty and got two shots, and then there might be another lockdown; I don't want that at all. I get that. I feel that. At the same time: if we achieve that 100% vaccination rate, can we guarantee that the vaccinees will not be contained?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u46	I've learned to always give guarantees, because that's always a very complicated one. I will take into account what we heard at the technical briefing this morning, namely that the number of people on the ic's would be a lot less and that the hospital occupation would also be a lot less than what is at present. It will not be zero, but it was also stated this morning that no major operations would have to be postponed. I think that's a very important one too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u47	In addition to Mr Hijink, in the previous debate I also asked the VVD what the purpose of the corona tickets is. The answers given by Mrs De Vries were: the aim is to give people more space, to make sure that we can return to the pub and to events with full occupancy, and to give more space to entrepreneurs. Those were the three objectives she mentioned in reply to my question. Now that we see that these three goals are not being met and, more importantly, the number of infections is rising much more rapidly and the number of hospitalisations as well, what is the purpose of the corona tickets according to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u48	In my view, it is still partly the same, but it is also important to me that, if we use this for the people in the country, we may be able to avoid other measures, including measures that could, for example, affect vaccinees very severely. I call a lockdown or another five feet. Those are all very far-reaching decisions. Then it's a weighting of what you think is important. We also think it is important that we try to avoid as many of the vaccinees as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u49	Then maybe I get it even less, because the three goals that were mentioned last time, we just don't make it. With the corona tickets we do not achieve the three goals mentioned then, which are also mentioned here again. Maybe I should go a little wider. So what's the strategy according to the VVD? Because five weeks ago, we were standing here, and then the idea was to relax, to take down measures and to get the country back to space. Now we're back here five weeks later. And I no longer understand what the strategy is and what direction we should be heading. So I would very much like to put that question to Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u50	I'm being very honest. It's a whimsical virus, and it's a quest all the time. We need to look at people's behavior. We need to look at what is acceptable and what is a good package of measures. But I am surprised that GroenLinks' support for the corona ticket is apparently completely gone. This surprises me because, in a number of respects, I have also heard full speeches about the field labs and the events, and arguments about how we can use these corona tickets to give more space for those events. I do not want to say that working with corona tickets is the ideal option, that there is no risk and that there will be no more contamination. But I think that can help to make it a lot less and that we can also give more space to the people in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u51	So a few things go wrong here. First of all, this is a lame you-bowl, because I asked a question. Secondly, in the field labs, research was carried out in a very different way than in the corona tickets. With those corona tickets, there's a mix of vaccinees and people who have been tested. There is no research under this, while the field labs were held in the spring. We didn't have a delta variant back then. And those field labs were run on the basis of tests. So that's genuinely different. And maybe this is where it goes wrong in the justification of the corona admissions, because there is no clear investigation underneath that. Maybe I should ask the VVD one more time. What's the strategy now? What are we supposed to send? And where would we be in a few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u52	I think there are two things that have been sent, and we look at a number of other things as VVD. On the one hand, it is directed at protecting the vulnerable and, on the other hand, at ensuring that our care can cope. Infections are an important indicator for this. We also think it is important that people should be able to see that there is support, that they should not get into trouble and that they should also be able to comply with all these measures. We also think it is important that these entrepreneurs should be able to carry out their activities. You have to find a balance in that. Things will sometimes go wrong there; that is one thing that is certain. But it's always looking for what you can and what you can't allow sometimes. And yes, quite frankly, we are sometimes surprised, both by the virus and by the behaviour of people and what they do and do not do with certain measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u53	Isn't it risky to try to increase that vaccination rate just by promoting a vaccine as a ticket to freedom? Isn't the honest story much more that protects the vaccine from hospitalization and from getting corona in a serious form? And isn't the honest story that with a vaccine there's still transmission and transmission possible, and that you can still get sick from the virus? The honest story is that, as long as the virus is firmly around, a certain degree of caution is needed of everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u54	I think a certain degree of caution is necessary. I therefore think it is important that we also respect the basic rules as closely as possible. But I think that vaccination is a very important means of getting out of this crisis. It is not a 'ticket to freedom', but vaccination does help us to do more. We have to be honest about that, too. Look at the results and look at the effectiveness of that vaccine in preventing hospitalisations or in preventing people from becoming seriously ill and going to ic. I am extremely pleased that the vaccine is so effective in doing so. And I'm also proud that it did. However, I would not describe the vaccine as a ticket to freedom. I think that's too easy. I would hope that we are all very much in favour of vaccination here and that we are also doing everything we can to ensure that this vaccination rate is as high as possible. I really do not have the ideal image of 100% in mind. But I do think it's important that we all radiate that as well. We have to give people the assurance that we have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u55	I agree with a great deal of what Mrs De Vries says. But the point remains that rather the thought was: if we just have a firm vaccination rate, about 85%, then we're out. That was the light at the end of the tunnel. And the honest story is that that was just too ambitious and too optimistic. We now have that high vaccination rate. I am also in favour of informing everyone carefully and properly about the functioning of the vaccine and also about the benefits it has. However, we continue to find that all these measures are not linked to a high vaccination rate. We're dealing with that now. With this high vaccination rate, therefore, it does not turn on the light and everything is over. We will come at a new stage, in which we see that, despite the high vaccination rate, the virus is still around and we have to ask ourselves how we should relate to it. You can see that the corona admission ticket is increasingly seen as the solution. There is a great deal to be said about this, because it is absolutely not waterproof and it sows and strengthens diversity. So there are a lot of problems with that, but my question to Mrs De Vries is: if you choose to do so, what is the end point? Because this could be a situation that continues for years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u56	I hope not, by the way. I think that a lot of unvaccinated people will eventually get the virus and build natural immunity or antibodies. But until then, we still need vaccination. Indeed, the vaccination rate is currently high in the Netherlands. I am also extremely proud that so many Dutch people have taken up that responsibility to do so. But we must also be honest that in a certain part of the country, for example in the big cities, but also in the Biblebelt, the vaccination rate is still very low. It is not evenly distributed across the country and we immediately see the consequences of that. In the Isala Hospital in Zwolle there are patients who may be from the supporters of Mr Van der Staaij. That really isn't a you-bake, because I really don't want to look at it that way. But I do find it a challenge to make sure that we get the vaccination rate up, so that the care doesn't go over and we can get back to the new normal soon. I really hope that we all want to say that we can also increase the vaccination rate there. We have to make every effort to do so. I'll get back to that in my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u57	Certainly there are all kinds of target groups where the vaccination rate is lower than the Dutch average; totally agrees. You can also see that there is targeted information given and thought is being given to that. I know from our own supporters that this is the subject of careful and thorough discussion. But at some point you should also be able to say: this is it, this is the final outcome. Especially when it comes to deep-seated conscientious objection, we should not think: if we pull it and push it for a while, then everything will be fine. If we keep the corona pass as a form of regulation and secretly also as a vaccination urge, what is your final perspective? One day, in the seventies of the nineteenth century, smallpox was also said: no, you must have proof of vaccination, otherwise you will not enter the school. That remained until the twenties of the twentieth century. So it can be really far-reaching if you just, without a final perspective, say: a corona pass we only hold in there for a moment. Once again, what is the perspective for Mrs De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u58	I am perhaps more optimistic than Mr Van der Staaij. I think there's a light at the end of the tunnel, including that high vaccination rate. But we're definitely not there yet, and we need to go through with it. As far as I am concerned, this is a temporary tool to ensure that people can continue to do a number of activities, that our entrepreneurs do not have to deal with closed sectors or a whole lockdown. We've all experienced how terrible that is. I don't think anyone wants that again. Whether it concerns the disadvantaged areas in the big cities, the less educated, the people who cannot read properly and do not know enough about the vaccine or the people who have doubts about the vaccine from religious backgrounds: I really hope that Mr Van der Staaij's support for it will also help us to ensure that the vaccination rate goes up in those areas where it is now low. I'm not gonna accept that this is it. I think we should do more about that, but I will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u60	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That is why my group will support the proposed package of measures. We will also take a positive look at the possibilities of extending the use of the corona ticket. But that legislation still has to come to us, so we're going to look at it. We'd rather do that than go back to the five feet or a lockdown. The use of corona tickets by employers would become largely optional, but isn't it strange that, if we say that we do everything we can to protect our vulnerable, we can accept that they can be cared for by unvaccinated or untested employees? I'd like a reflection from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Doing nothing is not an option. We no longer want lockdowns or sector closures, so we support the measures. But then we also want them to be maintained. So far, it's been lab-cracking. If we lay down rules with each other, that's not a menu of choice. Mayors, entrepreneurs, everyone really has to take responsibility. The fact that a number of people do not do this, with the risk of much more stringent measures, and thus ruining it for the rest, cannot be explained to people and entrepreneurs who follow the rules as closely as possible. Fortunately, I see around me that more and more catering entrepreneurs are aware of that and yet just for a moment check QR code and ID, and ask the control questions. What has been agreed on enforcement with the mayors and entrepreneurs in the sectors? We do have a question about the outdoor sportsmen, because the Safety Council says it is not enforceable and the OMT doesn't really recommend it either. How's that? We would also like to ask the Cabinet to take regional measures to isolate and control outbreaks of infection. Making everyone suffer from measures is not long lasting. How is the cabinet going to achieve this and what measures can be effective regionally with regard to the cabinet? Mr. Chairman. Then vaccinate. The vaccination rate is creeping up way too slowly. Can the Minister indicate what actions have been taken and are being taken to reach out to the poorly accessible groups? What happens seems rather invisible and little innovative. We know what the low-vaccination areas are, don't we? We know that this is the case in the disadvantaged neighbourhoods and in the Biblebelt and that this is particularly true of people with a non-western background and young people. Why are there no more targeted actions? Do we know their arguments for not doing it and do we have anything to do with it? Can we stop by community centers, talk to those kids or prick locations for access testing? Or, for example, can general practitioners visit the elderly to prick? Mr. Chairman. The VVD strongly supports booster vaccination, not only for people at high risk but above all for people in care, the 60-plussers and ultimately the young. Is that what the G.D.D. is now in the starting blocks for? Can't this start before December? And can the care staff not be vaccinated before? For some people, vaccination will be a year ago. This also relates to the regulation of the corona admission certificate. The validity of the domestic evidence, but also of the foreign evidence, is based on one year for vaccinees. Can the Minister undertake to anticipate this in good time, including at EU level, and to take the necessary actions? The same applies to the recovery certificate, which only applies for 180 days. Let us extend that period if it is justified because the protection is still high enough. Mr. Chairman. The VVD also wants to draw special attention to a group that is often not mentioned, namely those who want to, but cannot be vaccinated because of a medical reason or an allergic reaction to the vaccine. If, unfortunately, we have to work more and possibly longer with corona tickets, then this is starting to get a little tighter. How's the minister looking at this group? Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of other things. First of all, the wrong green check mark with the QR code if you have been vaccinated and still have corona. Why can't this check mark be temporarily turned off in case of a positive test? A falsely distributed QR code can be revoked. Secondly, testing for access in sparsely populated areas, for example in the Wadden Islands but also elsewhere in the country. Can the Minister find a permanent solution to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u61	Thank you. I think you're almost at the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u62	One more paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u63	Is it all right if Mrs De Vries finishes her speech first, Mrs Kuik?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u64	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr. Chairman. Then all the way to the end. The discussion about corona hardens, also here in the Lower House. We need to be aware of that. But the threats and intimidation are now spreading, towards the Prime Minister, towards Minister De Jonge and towards many other politicians, scientists and care staff. As far as we are concerned, that is completely unacceptable. Let's keep each other together a little bit, even though we may still be so different. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs De Vries. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u68	Of course, I can only agree with Mrs De Vries' last words. We saw again today the graffiti images of I think a general practitioner's practice that was completely plastered. That's terrible. My question is about something else, namely the QR codes. It is right that Mrs De Vries should draw attention to people who cannot be vaccinated, but there are also people who are constantly falling between shores and ships. For example, people who have received one vaccine in the Netherlands and one in Germany, or foreign students. That problem has still not been solved. That requires the same attention. Those are people who just want to, but can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u69	I think we all agree that you just have to solve that kind of problem. They are people who have simply indicated that they have been vaccinated and yet run into all kinds of obstacles. I believe that we have already asked written questions about this together with D66, PvdA and VVD, but I would like to call on the Minister once again to see how he can solve these problems. I think it's very annoying for people who have been vaccinated, but where it's kind of a struggle to get a QR code.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u70	I have another question as to whether it is possible for the green check mark to become a red cross or something in people who have been vaccinated and then test them positively. That is something that my group is absolutely concerned about. But when I thought about it, I encountered a number of practical objections. Right now, people are loading their own test results into the corona app, or not, but this is their own choice. I don't expect people who have been vaccinated to jump to put in their positive test results. The chance that people are going to do this voluntarily does not seem to me to be so great, to be honest. But what's the alternative? If we want to block it, do we want an automatic link between the CoronaCheck app and an EPD? The privacy implications caught me quite off guard when I started thinking about this. So I hope to hear what Mrs De Vries thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u71	You thought I had the magic solutions. Well, first of all, I hope that people just take their responsibility and that they have been vaccinated and have a positive test. Then I really hope you just stay inside and don't participate in any activities. I just think it's really antisocial if you do. I'm not an expert in building apps and all those connections. I think you should take privacy into account, but we do see that, for example, there is the possibility in Belgium. We also see that a falsely distributed QR code can be revoked in the Netherlands. So I would say: look at those possibilities to see if that can just be done in a responsible way. Because I wouldn't want people walking around with corona just because the app isn't working properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u72	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr. Chairman. This week my brother sent me a picture of a large pile of yellow plastic bags. My brother works in a hospital in Utrecht, where he brings meals, waste and was from A to B. In that picture were a few large carts with hermetic sealed sealed plastic bags. It's the garbage and the laundry of the corona patients. A month ago there was almost nothing left, and by now the pile is getting higher every day. Like his colleagues, and I think like all Dutch, he's done with corona. And when he sent that picture, I also thought of all those people who were up there in that hospital with corona, and in all hospitals in the Netherlands, now more than 1,300 people. Because if you get corona, you'll have the chance to spend 14 days in intensive care with an IV in your arm, with a catheter in your bladder, with a tube in your trachea. And that chance can be reduced to 97% with a simple vaccination, which is set like this. This can save suffering, also for public health, because as 14 days on the ic is a rather long time, heart surgery and cancer treatments are now being postponed. And the question is often: until when? I'm receiving numerous messages from people who are worried if there's room for them in the hospital. In the Volkskrant we all read a very simple example about a 55-year-old heart patient: his critical surgery was cancelled, had to be postponed, because another corona patient had arrived. So yes, measures are urgently needed. Many parties here say: bullshit, bad measures, get rid of it. But actually I haven't heard from any of them yet what exactly is, so what their party would do. But now that we need to take action again is a huge step backwards. It's a very hard lay, for all the entrepreneurs who had hoped otherwise. It is a very heavy blow for those caregivers, who see another heavy winter ahead, and for all the vaccinees, who were promised freedom. We also know why it is. Because the vaccination rate is still too low, while there is a willingness to do so in many more people than there are currently vaccinated. The GPs are the heroes here, because for the health of their patients we see them pricking the markets in Rotterdam, or even in people's homes, on Urk, in Staphorst. So let's go help these doctors. Let us also put aside all taboos, especially where vaccination rates are low. Can we change the law, allowing the GGD to tell the general practitioners which patients have been vaccinated, so that they can call the 50-plussers in their practice who haven't had the shot yet? Can we open up the doctor's office to prick there? Or as in Friesland at the pharmacy: vaccinate on call? I also have a question for the Minister of JenV. Some general practitioners now pay off their good work with threats; in Leiden a bullet went through the window. What is your message for the safety of those caregivers? Mr. Chairman. For now, we don't have Freedom Day. However, I am pleased that the cabinet has opted for measures that leave everything open, that you can simply go anywhere with tests, vaccination or proof of immunity. But if we're gonna keep that, then we really need to get rid of our non-committality. That's what the OMT says: make sure it's maintained. That makes a lot of sense. Then I'm actually looking at the minister in the far corner there. When the corona ticket was introduced, there was immediately the image: why should I do it if it is not maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u74	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Wilders, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u75	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I find it really unbelievable that D66, a so-called liberal party that I have often told my colleague here simply advocates a QR society, with a coronapas you need and for about everywhere you go - perhaps even right up to work, if the minister gets his way when we all know it's raging on all sides. We know that if you have such a pass, you can still get corona, and we also know that you can still have transmission, so you can infect someone else. We know that. We know that in the hospitals this morning I was there, at the hearing, or at the briefing; what was it? In addition, the European Commission has proposed to the Council a number of measures aimed at improving the safety and health of workers in the European Union. Vaccined people: 30%, 40%. I find it incomprehensible that you now blame the rest of us for not having any ideas, while you simply lock up a large part of the Dutch. If you don't want to get tested three or four times a week, you can't do a lot of things in the Netherlands. You might not be able to go to work anytime soon. You might get fired. You can't go to the gym anymore. You can no longer go to your child's football field, while we know that most of the infections I believe three of the four infections are happening in the home situation. So what the hell are you doing? You pretend that you stand for freedom and that it only guarantees freedom, but in the meantime you drive a lot of people out of society. They can't go to work anymore. They can't go anywhere unless they're tested three or four times a week. Of course, no one wants that. The real purpose of the cabinet is to allow people to inoculate themselves. That means urge. That is my question to the colleague. We have adopted a motion here in the Chamber with your vote against, but you are a democrat who says: no compulsion, no urge. This is pure urge. It is contrary to what the Chamber has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u76	This is bullshit. This is bullshit. That coronapas is a security measure advised by the OMT. Why? Because there is too much spread and too many people in the Netherlands are not protected. We will have to protect them in another way to prevent them all from entering intensive care at the same time. Mr Wilders just said about vaccinations that you can still get infected, that you can still hand it over. That's right. You're not saying that that chance is much less, that you're three-quarters protected from infection. If you do get infected, the chances are 20 times smaller that you get into the hospital and 30 times smaller that you get into intensive care. Please tell me that's what you're gonna do. There are a lot of Dutch people in Limburg now there are a lot of problems in the hospitals looking at you and what you were an example for, because you said: I will be vaccinated, because I believe it will help. Please tell me that's what you're always gonna say. You're asking me what my model is. Look at Denmark. I often use the example. 97% of the 50-plussers were vaccinated there. If you ask me how many people in intensive care are on the ventilator, the answer is: there are 15 of them today. Fifteen. Denmark is a smaller country. Do it times three and there's 45. If we had that here, we wouldn't have this debate. Then maybe we didn't have any corona measures at all. At least we wouldn't have to think about what we should be doing next week for corona measures. We need to make sure that we convince more people to be vaccinated. You can help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u77	Thank you. I'd like to talk through the chairman, Mr. Paternotte. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u78	This story is largely wrong, because 85% of Dutch people have been vaccinated. Again, I'm one of those 85%. I'm not ashamed to say that I never did. Let that be clear. I'm not against vaccination. I've had myself vaccinated and I'd do it again tomorrow. But 15% hasn't been vaccinated. We must respect those who do not want it for medical, ethical or other reasons. A majority of the Chamber has spoken here, which was with your vote against, but it was a majority of them who opposed the urge to move people who have not been vaccinated to that vaccination. What the cabinet is doing now, what it has already done with the corona tickets and what it is going to do even more now by extending that corona access ticket, perhaps even at work in a moment. So you may have your opinion and feel that everyone should be vaccinated and I may have my opinion, but the Chamber has said that this is not the intention. That pass, which is used everywhere, makes it almost impossible for people to live a normal life if you don't get tested four times a week. If you don't want that, the cabinet will gamble on it; that's what Mr. De Jonge's hope is that you will be vaccinated. And that's urge. So please respond to my point that this is contrary to the ruling of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u79	It's not that. I really wonder: does Mr Geert Wilders even read the investigations? Does he even read the OMT's advice? Because it says that it is necessary as a safety measure to protect unvaccinated people, to ensure that at the same time too many of them are not infected and can enter the hospital. Those hospitals, including the VieCurisiekenhuis in Venlo by the way, are becoming overloaded. We're all seeing these cries of distress. I would like to ask Mr Wilders the following. He said he wanted to get rid of all the corona measures. We have had two motions for resolutions on this in the last two debates. There is a country in Europe that has done so. That's England. There they have a blonde prime minister, who may also be his example. What do we see there? There are more than twice as many people in the hospital with corona. Not now, but for three months now, they've had this huge load. Those are all people who come out with health damage. If that's your example, you should say it here, but I don't think that's better. I am very curious whether Mr Wilders is going to say again today, for the third time in a row, "I see all those crying out in the hospital, but I do not care. I want to lift all corona measures." I can't wait to see if he'll table that motion again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u80	All you-baked about the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and the VieCuri in my beautiful Venlo. All funny jokes, but again, you won't answer my question. It's hard when you get an annoying question. Then you go on with a you-bake. But the answer to my question is that friend and enemy agree that it becomes more unattractive to go unvaccinated to those locations when you have and expand those QR passes. That is the intention of the cabinet. Otherwise, you have to have two, three, four times a week tested if you go to the gym three times, want to take your kid to football on Saturday and sit on the terrace again. Then you'll have to get tested for almost the whole week. Not every day, because they're valid for 48 hours or something, but you have to get tested a lot. So that means there's a 100% urge to be pricked. Just answer the question. Leave all the jokes for what they are. We can laugh about that later. Answer the question, for this is contrary to what the Chamber wants. You have to respect the people who don't want to do that for good reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u81	I certainly respect that. Of course you're right: testing is a real pain in the ass. A Q-tip in your nose isn't very nice. But what I really don't understand is that I haven't heard from you a single time. You've already heard a lot about the people who have now heard that their heart surgery is not going to happen for the time being and that it's going to be looked at when it can be done. There are four D66 women in this room. The majority of our group is women. A woman who now has a lump or needs breast cancer surgery or treatment doesn't know whether it's going to go on or whether it's going to be postponed. Your chances of getting rid of it are getting smaller because of what's happening right now. And those heart patients aren't out there demonstrating. You also know why heart patients are not demonstrating, but that can also be Henk and Ingrid. I don't understand why you're not saying you're standing up for that and why all you're asking is for me to respect some people for testing. I understand that's annoying, but it's a safety measure. If you've been tested, you're less likely to infect someone else, and the other one could just get into the hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u82	Once again, I have not received an answer to my question. Apparently, Mr Paternotte does not know the answer, or does he find it annoying to admit that it is urge. So I'm not gonna ask you again, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u83	I've answered it three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u84	...he's just refusing. I think I was talking. He's just scared and he's just refusing to answer this question. Do not come to me with: Mr Wilders has no eye for those people in those hospitals. Because I, the PVV, have, over and over again, been filing motions for years, pleading for more investment in hospitals. You didn't. I've got a motion I'll show you in a minute asking you to step up on nurses, ic's and intensives. The entire Chamber supported it, except for the coalition, including D66. You ran away for years when I said we need to invest more in healthcare. That would have caused a lot of trouble. There are a lot of doctors who say, "We have too few people. We don't have enough nurses. Where are they?" That's not what you're talking about. You're scared and you come up with the wrong answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u85	Thank you. I give the floor... do you still want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u86	"Where are they?" The honest answer is, of course, that you don't open a can of ic nurses. A lot more people are being trained now, so they're gonna be there soon. There are also lots of beds. Putting beds is easy, but you don't just have people who can provide that specialist care. The only way to do that very quickly would be to get them out of abroad. I do not know whether Mr Wilders is going to argue for that in a moment. I am very curious, but I think we should also have a little respect for the people in the care who say: we are really up against the water line right now. It's not like you're gonna throw in a few people, unless the rest of the hospital, the regular care, can go back to scaling down, as happened in the previous waves.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you. Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u88	I find this vulgar scaremongering. If we had to intensify on the ICUs and the nurses, we could have done that a year and a half ago. At least then we could have made a start. The number of ic nurses working on an ic is less than a year and a half ago. It was D66 who for a year and a half stopped a motion to give those people something. And now we come up with common scare-making that we're introducing a security measure that simply doesn't cover everything... how can you still be there for that? I also hope that you will give an honest answer to this, because I think it is best for the country to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u89	I would like to ask Members once again to talk through the President, and that is not to say you. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u90	Those nurses and, by the way, a lot of people in health care are now getting a lot of money. That was a proposal from the SP and the Christian Union which we supported and which the cabinet has now put in place. Indeed, a lot of people have left the care. And you know why. That's because they found that first wave of lead and lead heavy. I spoke to an I.C. doctor last week. He told me that in that first wave each nurse had to watch four patients at once and that there were so many corona patients that they constantly felt unable to do well enough, because they had to do much more than can normally be asked of them. A lot of people are still at home with trauma from that time. Then the question is: do you solve that by throwing more people at it or should care for them also be accessible so that people who are now going to work in care don't start thinking "I don't want to do this in this way"? I think we have a responsibility to those people, too. The fact that these people have run away from care or are no longer able to handle it at the moment is something we all have to bear in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u91	This is actually quite special, looking at when there were motions that asked to intensify in intensive care and to give staff who are struggling there a little more than just applause but also a better salary. Mr Paternotte does not have the exclusive right to speak of people working in intensive care; I think that is what many Members of Parliament do and I do. And those people there indicated that they didn't think they were well rewarded, that the workload was immense and that there was really too little attention for them except for a round of applause. And then constantly use the argument that we need to relieve the ic's, that we need to relieve the care and do so on the basis of a so-called safety measure that does not work proven. If you have a QR code, if you have a coronapas, you'll still be able to transfer an infection and spread corona and then you'll still be able to get sick and get into intensive care. With regard to the measures we are discussing, the DENK is particularly concerned that we are not going to widen the divide, the gap between vaccinated and unvaccinated, but are going to close the gap. But the measures proposed show that it is getting worse, that it is becoming untenable for people and that people simply can't do anything without having a coronapas, which is just a leaking system.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u92	From a higher salary for care workers, I'm glad this is coming now. That was also in our election program. A lot of parties have fought for this. In the end, we have embraced the proposal of the SP and the Christian Union and are now doing so. If you would like to look at it further, I think that is very good, but I do not think that is very helpful for the people of the Netherlands at the moment. I think we can look at lessons from abroad. You're saying this coronapas isn't working. Well, ask the people in Scotland, where they didn't have a coronapas at first. They went with Boris Johnson first. Ask the people of Wales and Northern Ireland. These happen to be three parts of the United Kingdom that decide for themselves, and after a while they have said: this is going to end up in the spigates, the hospitals are going to fill up, we are going to work with that coronapas. In Scotland it is now much better than in England. The country in Western Europe where there are most infections and where the hospitals are the most complete, happens to be the country without a coronapas. If you say 'I want that too', well, it's a good thing you're honest with me, but I'd love it even more that if you're against it then I respect that I have an alternative proposal for you. But I haven't heard that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u93	Last question, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u94	I'm being addressed. This is my sixth and I'd like to save one for the CDA. I'm sorry I don't get answers to the questions I ask. Mr Paternotte also knows that I am speaker number 12 or 13 or so. Then he can listen to my contribution. I will certainly make proposals. But I would like to ask him to deal with the false safety that is being used on the basis of the corona pass. That's the part I don't hear about Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u95	I'm gonna listen to your proposals later. I'm glad you're going to do them. Is that coronapac 100% waterproof? No. Does it make it a lot more vulgar? Yes. And that also makes sense, because if you've been tested, the chances are that you have the virus and you transfer it a lot smaller, and if you've been vaccinated, the chances are that you're carrying the virus and you're transferring it a lot smaller. So that helps. You can also see this in the example of the Amsterdam Dance Event that I presented to Jaap van Dissel this morning. There were 350,000 visitors. I think that is about seven times De Kuip, just to say it in beautiful Rotterdam terms to Mr Kuzu. Of the 350,000 visitors, about 1,000 were infected, or 0.29%. That's less than you'll find on average on a street of testing for access. Mr Van Dissel said that it does not protect 100%, but it does work well to keep the number of infections very low. Because compare that with last summer's disco peak, when many places were not maintained. Then there were really huge outbreaks in some places. So that coronapas does work. That's what you see in other countries that may or may not have him. And you can see that here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u96	Before you continue your speech, there is another interruption by Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u97	I wonder about the discrimination against unvaccinated people. I understand D66 likes getting that vaccination rate up. D66 doesn't shy away from compulsion and urge, but wouldn't it make sense to also apply logical enlightenments, for example for people who have been through it? You voted against my motion to allow the recovery certificate to be valid for one year. A day later the cabinet itself came up with that, so thank you for having arranged it in the back rooms anyway. But another motion you voted against requested that the test certificate be valid for more than 24 hours. You have an incubation period of five to seven days. I wonder why you voted against it. Surely it would be nice if we brought this into line with the other EU countries? You're Europhile. Most EU countries handle 72 hours. Couldn't we go there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u98	I love Europe; that's right. I also often give examples from other European countries. Of course, that 24 hours is a bit of a lesson we've learned. For that we also paid some tuition at the disco peak. Then the OMT said: don't let it last longer than 24 hours, because it might be possible with a PCR test, but with that antigen rapid test it is not wise, because the risk is relatively much greater that people still turn out to be contagious, so don't do that. I think it's okay to stick to that. That is why I voted against your motion, and indeed with all my fellow Members of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u99	Well, I don't know where you get that difference between that PCR test and that antigen test. Moreover, both tests are not entirely reliable for both false positives and false negatives. Anyway, let's say that's what you're assuming. Then it's still weird that we're doing something different than the countries around us. That happens in many debates, by the way. We had a debate this morning on arms exports. It also shows that we are doing something quite different than the neighbouring countries, while we are trying to do very europhile. So again, why are you making this assessment? Because on the one hand you have that vaccinees get a green check mark while they may be infected, so we accept a certain uncertainty, but why don't we accept it to make the unvaccinated a little easier? I assume you calculated the difference between 24 hours, 48 hours and 72 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u100	Because of what we've just been through. You're bringing in the arms exports. I always think it is good to look at examples of other countries, but in the end this is something that we in the Netherlands have to decide for ourselves. If you are going to convince me that Europe is going to have to determine the validity of tests for us, I think we are going to have a little bit of a change of shape that we should not go through between D66 and BVNL. Let me just say this. I think we should follow science in this. The OMT was crystal clear about this, for the disco peak of July and also after: no, you have to make such an antigen test valid for 24 hours, otherwise the safety is not sufficiently in order. I heard colleagues say that there are times when something creeps through: someone who has been tested can be contagious or a vaccinated person is contagious and transfers it at such an event. That's right, but let's keep that risk down, please. That 24 hours is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u102	Yeah, finally. Of course, that disco peak doesn't mean anything. In the previous debate, I asked Minister De Jonge: is that calculated, around 24 hours or 48 hours or 72 hours? He had that calculation, and he's gonna send it to me. Oh, that's in the last letter, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u103	That letter was 84 pages long.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u104	I haven't read all 84 yet, but I will. But if that calculation is in there and that calculation is such that the effect is less than the effect of a vaccinee who gets a green checker, when he can be completely contagious and infect everyone in a restaurant, then I suppose we should be able to just talk about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u105	If you want to make it safer, you could look at what Jaap van Dissel said. Actually, that test isn't safe enough. Then you should only allow people who have either been vaccinated or had the virus, or have done a PCR test instead of an antigen test. As far as safety is concerned, I think that is certainly now, at a stage when many more people in the Netherlands are carrying the virus, that this is not the time to let the reins be celebrated and to take more risk with those tests. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you. No, I am really giving the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij. We will also have three rulers later, so I really want to maintain some of the six interruptions, questions and comments. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr Paternotte began his speech by saying that he has not yet heard the parties opposed to the corona admission ticket suggest any alternatives. I was somewhat triggered by that, because we do have plans and things that we would like to see. One of these plans is the serological test. I would like to ask Mr Paternotte about that. We have tabled a motion on this subject with the idea that it could give more room for the corona admission certificate, but also because we would like to know what is going on with natural immunity and so that we can look up the gaps in immunity in vaccinees. Today we heard again that protection against infectious diseases is decreasing over time. We also see some research that shows that over time the effect will be reduced. If we can run that serological test, we can show who needs a booster shot and that kind of thing. The minister's gonna let it go a little bit. I hear Mr Paternotte asking for alternatives. If I'm gonna ask the Minister to do more work on this, can I find you on my side?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u108	We talked about this the other day when we met in Amsterdam, so I went into it a little bit more. I've called epidemiologists and virologists to see what they're looking at. What did they say? There's actually just too little scientific basis to do that. If that base is there, then I'm right on your side, because if you can say on the basis of such a test that someone is clearly protected from corona, similar to vaccination, why not? But last week I also saw a study of the Centers for Disease Control, done among a lot of people in America, which showed that a previous infection protects far less against the risk of getting it again than a vaccination. They even had a factor of 5. If that's true, it's a lot of people in America who have been investigated, then I'm worried about that. I understand Mrs Pouw-Verweij's point, but what I get back from experts is that we cannot say that at the moment. The research must go on, but I do think that we should be leading science in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u109	I absolutely agree with Mr Paternotte that we should ask the scientists for advice. I would therefore very much like to invite the Sanquin researchers who have looked very closely at this with the PIENTER study. They have indicated: it is actually very strange that people who have natural immunity and who after a year still have beautiful antibodies and can even donate, then don't get a tick. It's nice that this is happening now, so pay tribute to the minister for that, but again, there are a lot of experts, also from the former Red Team, who say: this is a really good idea; look at this; explore it. Is that something Mr Paternotte would like to explore with me, in order to give people with natural immunity more opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u110	But yes, that is not an end in itself. You can say "I really want someone who has had the virus to be able to get a permanent proof of recovery," but there must be a good basis for that. If there is, yes, then absolutely, but let that stand. So this exploration must go on, but right now I don't see the basis for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u111	I have a question for Mr Paternotte. Last time we agreed on the coronapas, but we did not agree on the method of implementation, because we believed and continue to believe that letting go of the basic measures and leaning alone on the coronapas could lead to too many infections. I'm afraid that's come true. I would therefore like to ask the pro-Europe party from the European party to look at the rest of Europe. Preventively more is being done there, namely measuring the temperature and more tests. In Denmark, for example, five times as much is tested as here. Mr Paternotte asked what alternatives there are. I believe that we in Volt offer a number of scientifically based possibilities, which have been well proven in the countries, to better control the virus together. How's Mr. Paternotte in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u112	Indeed, I think Denmark is a really good example. I talked to my mother-in-law's son about that. I hope some of you are paying attention right now. I'm sorry about that. I spoke to him in August. He'd been tested 100 times in the last year. He could go to work, wherever he was needed. He was fine with it, by the way. He could walk into a town with 60,000 inhabitants in five places and he would have the results within 15 minutes. That's just impressive. We all know why this eventually started to slow down, even though we now have a great deal of testing capacity in the Netherlands. In strategic areas, that can definitely help. I also think that this winter will require more tests to make a lot of things safe. This is not only the case with the use of corona tickets, but also with those self-tests, for example in schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u113	I also asked about temperatures. I would actually like to add: not just in strategic areas. In many European countries this is simply done at regular intervals. You have your temperature measured at every visit to the supermarket and preventive testing is carried out every week at work. This is especially done in the case of teachers who, for example, are difficult to distance. I think that's gonna be really good to have a better view of the virus, so we can just react more appropriately to infections. Mr Paternotte knows that Volt has said from the outset that we need to control infections so that we do not get into trouble with the capacity in a hospital. I would therefore like to ask Mr Paternotte: do not add occasional or strategic basic measures to the package, but do so structuralally so that we can contain it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u114	It is, of course, also because of the infections that we are now saying that action must now be taken. Because you can see that these infections translate into hospitalizations. I am very curious about the proposals you are going to make, because I do believe that we can learn a great deal from other European countries. It is also not the case that the measures in these countries are of course all good, because they all do different things. I often hear from the experts about measuring someone's temperature: two paracetamols, the fever drops; what exactly is the point? Is that really the best predictor? Can't you do other things for that? The mouth cover that we get back in the supermarket might work a little better in that sense. Mrs Gündoğan talks about the possibility of setting someone with a temperature meter at every supermarket. I wonder where they do that. We're gonna talk to the minister about enforcement. Then let's start with the places where most of the infections are actually happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u115	I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u116	I notice that everyone is already strategically indicating who else they want to interrupt. Of course, that is useful for the following speakers. Mr. Chairman. So I would like to address Minister Grapperhaus, who is sitting in the far corner. Many people said when the ticket was introduced: why should I do it if it is not enforced? A third of the catering companies aren't actually checking. Some mayors perform firmly, but in several large municipalities there are hardly any fines or places closed. So my question is: how is the Minister going to make this top priority? How's he gonna help the mayors? Is additional money being released for enforcement again? What happened to that first amount, the 45 million? Is that up yet? Did that help? Have any extra mystery guests been deployed? Have we supported the catering industry sufficiently with an extra person at the entrance? So there's a lot of questions. Those questions are also at the outdoor sports clubs. Mayors indicated this morning through Mr Bruls that this is difficult to implement. I get that. I'd like to hear how the cabinet sees it. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the measures. Is that enough? The OMT warns us that they advise heavier measures if the trend does not reverse. I therefore ask exactly the same question as in the previous debate: what if this is not enough? What are we gonna do if the hospitals continue to flood? Then what is just for anyone who is protected from corona? In the OMT opinion I read ideas like partial or complete closing of sectors, maximum group sizes and a mandatory 1.5 meter. Don't even think about it! We don't want this kind of lockdown action back. Then prefer only access for those who are protected from corona: cure or vaccinated. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the booster shot for 60-plus and vulnerable people who also get the flu shot. How soon can they get these? Earlier, the Minister indicated that the GGD is standing by. So I'm assuming this can be done very quickly. 'Cause all the bits are helping. I think we all prefer to see as little press conferences as possible in the coming winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u117	Excuse me, Mr. Wilders, you've also been through your interruptions. You've had six. But fortunately, there will be a second term later. And there is also a first term of office. Mr. Paternotte, thank you very much. I shall give the floor immediately to Mr Wilders for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Last week I visited Ter Apel, that beautiful Groningen village that is plagued by a tidal wave of oppressive asylum seekers. When I was there to help the inhabitants of Ter Apel, I thought to myself: what kind of crazy country do we actually live in? We live in a country in which a cabinet spends tens of billions on asylum seekers and also tricks the whole country into giving them free shelter, free care and free homes. Nothing's too much for them. And then look at the care for our own people, the care that is once again in trouble, especially because for years too little has been invested in extra ic-beds and extra care workers. As a result, the workload and absenteeism are rising. As a result, we have far too little capacity and regular care is scaled down again. That, I thought to myself, is the message from Prime Minister Rutte to the Netherlands: asylum seekers go first and our concern comes second. Mr. Chairman. As four ER doctors wrote in an open letter last Friday: the cabinet failed to address the biggest problem in care, namely the healthcare capacity problem. They say there aren't enough nurses in our hospitals. These four doctors consider it unfair that unvaccinated people are designated as the cause of the failure of our healthcare system. And, of course, it is. The cabinet is chasing unvaccinated people, while we heard this morning that no less than 30% of the people with corona have been vaccinated on the ic's and about 40% of the people in hospitals. So it's not the unvaccinated, but the gentlemen there in box-K who are failing. It is unforgivable that Rutte and De Jonge have not provided sufficient care capacity. In order to conceal that own failure, yesterday the cabinet declared for the umpteenth time new corona measures. No mea culpa, no presentation of a billion-dollar injection into care, but even more restrictions on freedom. Because hospitals are filling up again, especially with older people over 70, often people with obesity and underlying diseases. But especially with non-Western immigrants. About half of corona patients included are non-western immigrants. Half. When I said that last year, the world was too small. But facts are facts and they still are. And why do I never hear the Prime Minister and Minister De Jonge talk about that? Stop with those horrible corona tickets. They should never have come. It is pure vaccination urge and therefore the cabinet acts in violation of the passed motion. It is indirect coercion and only makes for more division in our society. The corona tickets offer false security, because vaccinated people with such evidence can still get and transfer corona to each other and to people who have been tested. Get rid of that QR society! Meanwhile, non-vaccines and their children are being hunted down. They are no longer allowed to swim, they are no longer allowed to exercise without being tested a few times a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u119	Mr Kuzu's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u120	Knowing that this is my last interruption, I ask why I hear Mr Wilders speak and worry about the division between vaccinees and unvaccinated, while on the other hand he points his finger at people with a non-Western migration background lying on the ic's. That's also a dichotomy. I'd like to have noticed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u121	No, that's not a dichotomy. People who are non-western immigrants are also free to decide whether or not to be vaccinated. But the fact is that they are much less voluntarily vaccinated than the natives. You know, on average 85% of native Dutch people have been vaccinated. When it comes to large groups of non-Western immigrants, that percentage is around 40%, 50%, 60%. Surely it would be reasonable if these people would not be obliged to take about that percentage of the Dutch, of the indigenous population? Then you'd have a big problem in the hospitals less. Again, it's noncompulsory. That goes for everyone. Only 50% of people with corona in hospitals are non-Western immigrants. I didn't make that up myself. It comes from the chairman of the Dutch Association for Doctors for Lung Diseases and Tuberculosis. He said that last week. You can't ignore that percentage. Mr Kuzu should not react insanely to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u122	Mr Wilders just came to me and, in my opinion, to Mrs De Vries that there should be more respect for people who choose not to be vaccinated. He missed that respect. What he then does is say: a lot of unvaccinated people have a non-Western background and the Minister has to say something about it; it is not good that the vaccination rate there is too low. What exactly is it? Do you have any respect for these people's choice? Or do you only respect those people's choice if they're not Muslims?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u123	No, non-Western immigrants are not just Muslims. We have about 2 million non-Western immigrants in the Netherlands, of whom about 1 million Muslims and 1 million non-Muslims. So you don't know your business, but we're used to it from you. What do I think? I think it's up to them. Of course they have to know that for themselves, but when they have about half, just over half, two thirds of the voluntary vaccination rate of the Dutch people of the native Dutch I have to say, of course, I should like to make a comment about that. I am appalled that this cabinet, and also you as a D66er, are always talking about Urk and Staphorst and always talking shame about it, but nobody is talking about this group. The group is two, three times larger than the group of people living in Urk and Staphorst. You can actually do something about this. Once again, this must be done voluntarily. If they don't, they won't. But they now vaccinate so little voluntarily that they make up half the population in hospitals. I'm gonna say some of that, and I'm gonna keep saying something about that. I find it hypocritical that you and everyone else are talking about the people in Urk and Staphorst, but not about the non-Western immigrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u124	And then what? Then you would like the ministers to say something about that, but you really do not want anything else. You really don't want to do anything to make sure that those people get extra vaccination or to make sure that they are more protected against the virus, for example with the corona pass. Mr Wilders can point to the big cities. I do that a lot. I have, for example, addressed the mayors of The Hague and Amsterdam that enforcement should be improved. That's not just about the Biblebelt, is it? But the question is, what then? I asked Mr Wilders last time if he was prepared to summon people to be vaccinated and he said no. If he's so worried, he might want to do it now. In the big cities this may not matter much, but in Limburg we see the same problems now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u125	The D66 colleague is always talking about the big cities, but it is not about the big cities. It's about non-Western immigrants. Why do you have some kind of paralysis in your tongue when it comes to saying "non-Western immigrants"? I'm gonna say it again. I quote the reports in the newspaper, De Limburger in this case, on 27 October 2021. "A survey by the Dutch Association of Doctors for Long Diseases and Tuberculosis at the hospitals showed at the beginning of September that about 40 to 60% of all included corona patients are non-Western. These are the most recent figures available, says President Leon van den Toorn." So don't talk about the people in the big cities. I live in a big city too! It's not about people in the big cities. It's about the non-Western immigrants. You've got to have the guts to talk about that. Again, I'm not gonna call people to be vaccinated. But the Cabinet can do its best to vaccinate those people. If you're gonna drive a prick bus for social services, you're gonna have a whole bunch of them already. For example, we could do that already.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mr Wilders rightly points out that in addition to about 10% to 12% in the Biblebelt, about 40% of non-vaccines have a non-Western background. Neither group still covers 50%. That's what we need to talk about. They are especially located in neighbourhoods where one is very family-oriented and very close to one's own circle of friends. One of the problems at the moment is that many people who have complaints will not be tested. That's only about half. Does Mr Wilders agree with the CDA that, in order to meet this, you can also provide mobile test buses in those neighbourhoods, so that people have very low-threshold access to be tested? Then hopefully they'll stay home after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u127	Sure. I'm very much in favour of testing. The more low-threshold testing is, the better. I'll get back to you in a minute. It's one of the most important basic rules. I think it's horrible myself. My mailbox is full of people saying: I want to get tested, but where did that test site go? So they can hardly find a place where they can be tested at reasonable time and distance. Again, if you have any complaints, get tested. The lower the threshold, the better. I do not think that this is a CDA position, but common sense, with which I do not say that CDA and common sense can never go together. 'Cause I'd be a little overreacting. Mr. Chairman. Where was I? The corona pass is now even mandatory on outdoor terraces and immediately at work, if the cabinet gets its way. Madness. Total madness. Mr. Chairman. Then what is to be done? My first point is to invest in healthcare. I can't repeat it enough. Investing in care instead of breaking down care. Stop some of those hundreds of billions that you are now spending on mass immigration in healthcare, I say to the cabinet through you, Mr. President. And especially to more and better paid care workers. You didn't. You, the coalition, voted against my motion for more investment. When I spoke in a motion about extra salaries, the coalition ran out of the old room to the parking garage. You didn't do it, and you're now responsible for a lot of trouble. Two. I agree with the government that this may also be done once and for all, and say: stress the most important basic rules. Do you have any complaints? Get tested and stay home. Be responsible. That alone, says the cabinet and also the OMT quite rightly, can significantly limit the spread of virus. Do it. Three. Most of those infections take place at home. That's three quarters. For once, give serious information about good ventilation. Mr D66 and I received a motion last time that said: open the windows. That motion was adopted by the House of Representatives. The cabinet doesn't do anything about it. There was no mention of ventilation yesterday at the press conference. It has to be done. Four. I agree with the cabinet too. Give the elderly and the people with underlying diseases who want to do so voluntarily a booster shot, but start with it as soon as possible. It's very good if you can voluntarily give older people extra protection. Finally, I told you, the pink elephant in the room. The hospitals are now full of people of non-Western descent. First, make sure that your own non-Western friends are vaccinated as much voluntarily as the rest of the Netherlands before harassing the rest of the Netherlands with all measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u128	Five minutes in which Mr Wilders blamed almost everyone and, of course, the non-Western immigrants most. At some point, he answers the question of what should happen. Stay home with complaints. That's a good idea. That advice has been valid for a year and a half. And he says, "Go take care of a lot more people in care very quickly," while everyone who's in care right now and everyone who's on the ICU right now and sees the patients pouring in, says, "We won't take care of that in a few days and not in a few weeks." In other words, Mr Wilders has no solution whatsoever and says here in fact to Henk and Ingrid: no, I have no solution. I just want to explain what went wrong in the past. My question is whether he is going to table another motion today that says: lift all the corona measures and do the same as Boris Johnson in England, where twice as many people are in the hospital. Is he gonna do that again today?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u129	For what I have in mind, you will really have to wait until the second term. I'm not gonna tell you until the cabinet answers what motions I'm gonna table. What the hell! Maybe. Maybe not. We'll see. However, Madam President, on the point of criticism of Mr D66 that we cannot now quickly arrange extra places. I'm reading the next motion, which I filed on August 18, 2021. And before that, I have submitted many others. "The Chamber invites the government to increase its ic capacity, the number of intensiveists and the number of ic nurses in structural terms, and to proceed to the order of the day." The entire Chamber was before, except for D66, VVD, CDA and the Christian Union. So don't touch me with the story that it's all too late. It is too late because your party and your coalition were against proposals from me and others in this Chamber about extra salary increases for nurses to make the work more attractive and about earlier investing in and training nurses. You were against that every time! So you have about a kilo of butter on your head. You're the last person to blame me for not making proposals. I come up with very real and concrete proposals and the most important proposal is to ensure that care is in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u130	That is one motion to which Mr Wilders always refers and to which we are of course going to have absolutely nothing in the coming weeks. And that motion of course doesn't add up either. Yeah, you can actually scale up the ic. Beds have been added and people are being trained. We're gonna have a bigger ic capacity later. But what we shouldn't do now is to realize a three, four or five times larger intensive care with which you can place a football station full of beds, as if it's so nice to be in intensive care. We need to prevent people from getting there, because if they get rid of that, they're going to spend months, if not years, getting back on their feet. I certainly do not share the view that we will have a more beautiful country if we have many more intensive care beds. I also note that Mr Wilders has just said that I may not table the motion for a'repeal all measures'. That is progress, because that means that he is already more nuanced in the game and perhaps also secretly regrets the fact that he said two months ago 'heal everything', because then we would have been a lot worse in front of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u131	It is really insane that the representative of D66 here in the Chamber says: I am against extra ic-spots. That the representative of D66 here in the Chamber says, "I'm against extra nursing staff." I can't believe he'd say that! One doctor after another says, in letters submitted and on television: we have a problem because of too little care capacity. And there he is, the bell-blower chairman, because that's the one from D66 who just says: boys, I don't care; I don't have to. Shame on you. Insufficient capacity, that is bad for the people in the Netherlands. How dare you say it? Then there is my second point. The PVV wants... I'm just answering your interruption neatly. The PVV...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u132	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u133	Mr President, I think I have the floor. The PVV, for the third time, wants a lot more than just investing. We want to apply the basic rules, as I said. Do you have any complaints? Get tested and stay home. We believe that we can voluntarily move those non-Western immigrants a little bit more to get pricked. And how about the theme of aerogenic transmission? Again, look at the numbers. Three of the four infections take place today in the home situation. It was two out of three, now it's three out of four. That's 75% of the infections! We have to do something about that and I don't hear from the cabinet about it. Okay, the ministers dropped the word once yesterday, but they didn't keep a whole story about the usefulness and necessity of that aerogenic transmission. When people come home and the infections take place, with visitors and family, it is of course a huge step to better control ventilation. At the time of a parliamentary survey, one of the biggest errors and blunders of this cabinet will appear to be overly long and systematically ignoring the aerogenic transmission and ventilation. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mr Wilders can start blowing harder and harder, but that does not mean that he is going to answer my question as to whether what he is saying is true at all. I just said that more nurses are being trained and that's good. But the image that we would need two or three times as many beds, as is the case in England, is not attractive to me. Other than that, they're all distractions. Stay home with complaints: very good, but that advice has been valid for a year and a half. There's no expert who says that's gonna make a difference. More attention to ventilation: absolutely. We share that the cabinet should have done so sooner. But the call to pay attention to this is not something that will make a difference in the coming week either. All those people in hospitals, such as Henk and Ingrid who are worried about heart surgery or a family member who has cancer and doesn't know if he can get his treatment in the next few months, that's no good at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u136	Mr Wilders comes only with a few distractions and blames all kinds of people, but has no serious solution whatsoever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u137	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u138	What is of no use to people is a D66 chamber member who simply proclaims that he thinks that no more nurses should be trained and that we have enough ic-spots. That party thinks, you know what, we leave the boundaries open and we let everyone in. Again, I paid a work visit to Ter Apel; everything that comes in there is written on the forehead "Vote D66." It's all funded by you. And then we talk about the care and then there's nothing, then there's nothing and then you don't want anything. Then it's about the aerogenic transmission. At the moment, three-quarters of the infections occur in the home situation. How can you say that it wouldn't be a huge profit right away if you took away the main cause of that? I am convinced that poor ventilation is one of the main causes of contamination in the home situation. If you deal with them, you'd have huge successes right away. Huge successes! So we shouldn't rule out anyone who hasn't been pricked for a good or bad reason for half of the Netherlands, no, we should make sure that people at home have good ventilation. This will mean that we have fewer infections, fewer people in hospitals and fewer regular care needs to be scaled down. You don't have to be with D66 for that, but you have to be with us for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA. I suggest we suspend for a very short time, about five minutes, and then we move on. I call Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u140	Mr. Chairman. In my speech in September, I spoke about the importance of solidarity, because we only defeat Corona together. It is not the individual interest that is paramount, but the collective interest. But we'll get into dilemmas with that. Vaccines see that regular care is being scaled down again and that they have to wait for their hip surgery, because the increasing number of infections, especially among non-vaccines, is putting the care burden back on them. And over-tired caregivers in hospitals, but also in home care, nursing homes, health care institutions and general practitioners, wonder why they should be working the snot again in front of people who have often not been vaccinated and could have prevented it. The CDA understands and supports the need for more measures to increase the number of infections. But how effective are the proposed measures? We understand that the absolute numbers of unvaccinated people are the highest in the G4. Is that right? And if so, what measures are specifically targeted? Because what is the point of wearing a mouth cap in Oostburg, while Rotterdam is a fireplace? We understand that 12% of unvaccinated people come from the Biblebelt, about 40% live in a non-Western neighborhood, 50% live in other neighborhoods and many unvaccinated low-educated ones. Is that right? How are these target groups specifically reached? Many of these people are focused on meeting with family and friends in the neighborhood. Is the Minister prepared to do this? I was just asking Mr Wilders to make mobile test sites available so that people can actually be tested around the corner? Because we now see that only about 50% of the people who have complaints are being tested. The CDA supports an extension of the possibilities for tickets under the current law, but with the aim of using them as regional and targeted as possible. Does the Minister agree with the CDA? However, we have great difficulty with the fact that the QR code must also be shown on outdoor terraces and especially outdoor sports. Sporting is good for health and connects people. Can the Minister explain that further? Mr. Chairman. The Minister is thinking of expanding the sectors where you need to show a ticket, but also of allowing employers to request a corona ticket from their employees. Is the Minister also looking at other possibilities, such as self-tests, in consultation with the social partners? We would like to hear a response to that. Mr. Chairman. I've said it before. Laws that don't work are worthless. You can introduce a lot of measures, but if they are not followed, you might as well leave it. Enforcement is inadequate, and that is undermining authority in general. Moreover, it creates unfair competition between entrepreneurs and organisations. What will the Minister of JenV do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u141	Last time, Mrs Van den Berg said about the corona tickets that they had to be temporary in nature. We are now six weeks after the last debate and the infections are getting worse. The corona tickets did not do what at least a large part of the Chamber hoped they would do. They are not temporary either; their use is even extended. What does Mrs van den Berg think about the fact that the corona ticket, whose effectiveness has not yet been demonstrated and whose expiry date is not yet in sight, is now being extended to other sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u142	We find it extremely sad. We were all hoping we could get rid of it. But on the other hand we see that in September it was said that crowds are avoided, your hands are washed, tests for complaints and ventilation simply remain important. Those are actually the simplest measures, and I shall come back to them later in my speech. Mr Van Dissel said in February that it would produce spectacular results if we could all achieve more to comply with these basic rules; then we would not need many other things either. Unfortunately, however, the conclusion is that this is not happening and that this has been reduced even further. So you'll have to look for another set of measures. And then we find the corona admission ticket compared to other options you have not so bad yet. Indeed, we should not think of a new lockdown. Then we'd rather have the corona pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u143	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u144	Mr. Chairman. When you're 16, it takes a year longer than when you're 61, like I said before. That is precisely why we would like to give young people room. But vaccination is very important. Many young people hear ghost stories or think: I'm healthy, so I don't need a vaccine. Yesterday there was a good example of this in the Barneveld newspaper. What will the Minister do in communication to reach young people in particular? Mr. Chairman. Tens of thousands of people cannot tolerate a vaccine or have become extremely ill after the first vaccination. What can the Minister do for these people so that they too can continue to participate in society? Mr. Chairman. I just said it to Mrs Westerveld: busy avoiding, washing hands, ventilation and staying at home and testing in case of complaints really need to be repeated, because that gives spectacular results. Mr Van Dissel reiterated that in March 2020 this was the only thing we knew and did, and that within a few weeks we had brought down the number of infections tightly. But this includes the fact that vaccinated people, who are still often able to get mild........................................................................................................................................................................................ I get several requests from the country to ask for more attention, because many people who have been vaccinated think: nothing can happen to me anymore. Everyone should support the basic measures, because they are really much more pleasant than the masks and tickets. Finally, I would like to join Mrs De Vries in saying that threats are unacceptable, not only to our rulers, but also to general practitioners who, according to the stories I hear, are thrown stones through their windows. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. There's another interruption by Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u146	I have another question about the ic-capacity. It is true that it has been argued for a year and a half to increase the number of employees who can work on the ic, also in order to have a larger buffer. In fact, nothing has happened to that in that year and a half. I think that's a missed opportunity anyway. In recent weeks new proposals have been made to meet the ic employees. Among others, Mr Armand Girbes, I don't know if I pronounce his last name correctly; that's what you get when you read a lot instead of looking physically, but that's not relevant, because we know who he is, namely the head of the intensive care in Amsterdam. Because that is one of the thresholds they run into: many women work part-time rather than full-time. I find that an interesting thought. It can help to lower the threshold over the next six months or years, making it more attractive for people to work for the ic's. 'Cause that's really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u147	In any case, I agree with Mrs Kuik that the key problem is the capacity and occupation of the ic's, not the number of beds, machines and equipment. I believe that efforts have been made to train more people. But on the other hand, people are literally exhausted and absenteeism is higher. I think it's a nice idea for Mrs. Chicken to look at this. I am also very interested in the Minister's answer. I think it's a very sympathetic idea. You're gonna have to walk in a suit like that all day. In any case, I think that is an enormous burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u148	There is another interruption by Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u149	Thanks. I was wondering what Mrs Van den Berg thinks is the mortality of corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u150	Mrs Van den Berg, the mortality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u151	What?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u152	The mortality.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u153	The mortality of corona is very low, Mr Baudet. that's not the point at all, but that's thanks to the fact that we take all kinds of measures and organise protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u154	What do you think is about the mortality rate of corona? Can you hang a percentage on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u155	If I've understood correctly, that's about a tenth of a percent.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u156	That's right. Do you know what the mortality of influenza, the flu, is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u157	It's starting to look a little like a quiz.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u158	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u159	It's starting to look a little like a quiz.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u160	At least I know that in a severe flu year, as we had in 2018, there were 9,000 deaths. In the meantime, Corona has, of course, already seen many more deaths, deaths or excess mortality, as indicated. On the other hand, despite all the measures we have taken, we still had an even higher excess mortality rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u161	In a heavy flu season, like the one in 2017, you had about 9,000 dead. We've had two corona seasons now, and we've got about 18,000 dead. That's the same number and the mortality of corona is the same as the flu. The measures have no effect on mortality and infection. This is evident from all kinds of comparative studies. Sweden, for example, has no measures, but Lithuania does. Florida doesn't have any measures, but all kinds of other states in America do. You can't tell the difference! Those measures therefore have no effect on mortality, which is the same as that of a severe flu. That is indeed the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u162	I have the impression that Mr. Baudet really lives in another world. We've all been in a lockdown. We've had a curfew. We've had masks. We've had homework instructions, and even though we've all done so, we still have 18,000 dead. On the other hand, I never had to put on a mask with the flu. I never had to work at home for that. We'll just go on with our whole lives. I would like to ask Mr Baudet what he thinks of Brazil, to mention a way out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u163	So the bizarre and tragic thing is that all these measures and all these lockdown measures have had no effect on the infections. In fact, they probably only weakened our immune systems because we're at home, because we're getting depressed because we're in fear. In Brazil, you have comparatively less corona than in Europe. That's something like that. Of course, the media do not do their job, because they always give absolute numbers when you have to give relative numbers. You have to look at the percentage of the population. There are many more people living in Brazil than in the Netherlands. You have a total of more coronados there, and that makes sense, because you also have more flu deaths, more road accidents and so on. But as a percentage of the population, that's no different. The IFR, the mortality, remains the same. Of course, this is different in countries with poor health care or more generally with a worse health situation, because people eat unhealthy food and so on. Of course, as with the number of road deaths, you have more deaths. In Thailand I have seen an accident and then it takes 45 minutes for an ambulance to arrive. Of course you have other effects, but the principle remains the same. It is very bad, but we have been making policies for a year and a half that have no effect or a counter-effect. And we do that for something that has the same mortality as the flu. It's crazy what we're doing. You're absolutely right!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u164	At least I didn't say that it's crazy what we're doing. I'm thinking 180 degrees different. I just find it insane what Mr. Baudet here dares to say. I just find it disgusting. I have no other words for that, Mr President. If you see that 2% of people just get seriously ill, then I really wonder if Mr. Baudet can make a calculation of that. We have 17 million inhabitants in this country, and that means that 340,000 people are seriously ill. The figures show that a quarter of those 340,000 people can usually be helped at home thanks to the use of general practitioners. But no way: no care system you have, no healthcare system can handle 270,000 or 250,000 people. I don't know where Mr. Baudet gets the numbers and his ideas, but I find them downright disgusting. I think it's fake news, and I wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u165	Mrs Van den Berg began as well when she said: the mortality rate of corona is very low, a few tenths of a percentage. The official figure worldwide is 0.15%. I notice that you are still falling back into the groove of scaring and creating panic by adding up all sorts of figures: let's say everyone would immediately get sick... Of course, that's never how the flu works. That's not how Corona's doing either. It's always like this. Of course, everyone agrees that the pressure on care is too great. Articles have already been published on this subject for corona. It is therefore insane that the cabinet does not scale up the concern. We put it in a year ago. There were just ic ships available with 500 beds. They were ready for the North Sea coast. It was tested internationally and proved to be better quality ic-care than Dutch hospitals could provide. Emergency hospitals could also be set up and none of this has been used. There is an outflow in the care, because those people are not paid enough and because those people are obliged to vaccinate, while in many cases they know how dangerous that is for your health. So all the policies implemented are counterproductive and stupid and insane. By the way, we agree on this, but the idea that 280,000 people should be admitted to hospitals from one day to the next does not make any sense. There's no way that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u166	The 280,000 covers a period of time, but no healthcare system can do so. I hate that Mr. Baudet here says that vaccination wouldn't be necessary. You can see how effective these vaccines are: they reduce the risk of infection by three quarters and protect them from becoming seriously ill by 95% to 97%. I simply have no words for this kind of fake news being shared here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u167	I would like to thank Mr Van den Berg for calling it a beast by his name, namely that fake news is being spread here in our Parliament. I like to get the numbers, because it seems pretty hard to do that from behind the cathedral. Brazil has 213 million inhabitants and has 600,000 deaths. It is therefore number one in the world in terms of coronados. I did the math: the Netherlands is 0.17% and Brazil is 0.28%. That's almost twice as much. That Mr Baudet still dares to walk in Parliament with his lies! I'd like to say that "fake news" isn't even enough. So thank you, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u168	Mr Baudet is not behind the speaker's chair, so I am giving Mr Baudet the last chance to respond. Mr. Baudet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u169	Here's the official figures, per million. Belgium has 2,230 per million and Brazil has 2,834 per million, so that's the order of magnitude. It is absolutely not true that Brazil stands on one in the world. That's just not true. I know that, especially in populist parties like Volt, the impulse is very strong to shout a little, and George Soros may be making another donation to you in a moment...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u170	We're not gonna talk about each other like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u171	...but it's just not true. Just look at the facts. There's nothing going on with this whole corona-panic thing. We destroy the economy, we destroy society and we destroy healthy young people with these poison vaccines!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u172	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Mrs Van den Berg is still behind the chair, so it is the intention to address questions to Mrs Van den Berg. I hope that Mr Hijink will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u173	Yeah, I'm definitely gonna do that. I propose that we leave the situation in Brazil to the Brazilian Parliament. Let us deal with it here first. That's complicated enough as it is. I would like to talk to Mrs van den Berg about the RIVM figures that came in this afternoon. That's not fake news. These figures show that 44% of the people admitted to hospitals in October were fully vaccinated. So you're heading towards the fifty-fifty. That means, of course, that I would like to stress immediately that these vaccines are working very well, because the group of vaccinees is many times larger than the group of unvaccinated ones, but that aside. The question I would like to ask Mrs van den Berg is the following. We see these figures and we know that a significant proportion of the vaccinees can still end up in hospital. Shouldn't that be a reason for the cabinet to do more than just align measures with the corona tickets? These figures actually show that the spread we are seeing now calls for more generic measures to limit the spread of the virus more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u174	Firstly, the CDA calls for regional measures. In certain regions, you may have to be even stricter than in other regions. On that point, I have just asked the Minister for a response. Secondly, I find it simply frustrating that we cannot achieve these basic measures better with each other, because that is the most simple way to protect ourselves and others. In particular, I would like to make a great deal of efforts to avoid what Mr Hijink is actually saying, namely that we may need much worse measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u175	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u176	Of course, that is something in which the House of Representatives and also the cabinet have a big voice, can make a big mark. Think of homework advice, for example. I'd say make that a homework assignment for the people who can. That goes beyond what the cabinet is proposing. The same applies to shaking hands and keeping your distance. When it comes to basic measures, as a cabinet, you could do much more than is currently happening. The cabinet chooses to hang everything on the tickets. Does Mrs Van den Berg agree with the SP that it would be smarter to tackle the basic measures more strictly, especially if we now see the new figures showing that a very large proportion of the vaccinated people also have a chance of getting well ill? Shouldn't the cabinet be radiating that anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u177	The CDA fully agrees with the SP that consideration should be given once again to the basic measures and that, for example, work at home where it can, should be included. Because these basic measures are at least easier for everyone. So we would like to support this from all sides with the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u178	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes so we can stretch our legs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u179	I ask the Members to take their place again. The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments in the coronavirus. I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is becoming increasingly clear how this cabinet has dealt with the corona crisis in recent times. The construction of group immunity and the imaging surrounding the corona approach were the most important. 60% of the population had to get the virus. The cabinet, so were the plans, would only steer on the capacity on the ic's. So don't contain the virus, just let it go around, just like the Prime Minister had said in his speech, something he came back to every time and denied. He has, however, literally put it that way. In fact, the World Health Organisation has already taken this approach, this strategy, directly. Also in the Lower House, the SP made clear at the time, but also other parties: this is the wrong strategy; so don't do it. But the cabinet did. We fear that this approach has often taken too late and that many people have become ill unnecessarily and may have died unnecessarily. As far as the SP is concerned, this is a good time to say that there should be a parliamentary survey on how to deal with the corona crisis. We need to be able to hear from the key players under oath what choices have been made at what time. We hope today that there will also be support from the coalition to launch such a parliamentary survey.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u181	I would like to ask an enlightening question about this. I think we are very much in agreement on the substance, but what my party is still struggling with is the time for this parliamentary inquiry. Do you have to do it now, while we are actually still fighting the crisis, or afterwards, if you can look back? I wondered how Mr Hijink's party saw this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u182	That question is justified. There's an investigation already under way from the Security Research Council. In any case, we would like to wait until those results are in. Nor should the parliamentary inquiry stand in the way of the acute crisis, which I very much agree with Mrs Pouw. So I'd say it should be in the course of next year. We just need to see if it fits well. Mr. Chairman. So how's it going now? The virus is blazing again and the cabinet again doesn't seem to know what to do. Our care is now under high stress, in hospitals, but also in general practitioners, in home care and in care for the elderly and disabled. I'm a little afraid we're gonna make another mistake that's been made before. The cabinet is staring blindly at the ic: some beds and Kees is ready. But what the cabinet doesn't see is that a large proportion of the patients, vaccinated or not, end up with the general practitioner or at home care. I'd like to know from the Cabinet what it's doing now to support these caregivers. How is the outflow of staff in hospitals and elsewhere stopped? Because, of course, that's the point. You may wish for more beds, as the Minister wishes, but at the moment there are fewer carers on the ice than a year and a half ago. My question to the Minister is: what exactly have you done over the last year and a half? How can it be that hospitals and departments could be closed under this cabinet, but in the last year and a half that capacity has not been restored?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u183	There is an interruption by Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u184	Mr Hijink spoke very strongly about the government's strategy and policy. Of course, I understand some of that, but I would like to give you a mirror. Two months ago we had a debate here on the introduction of the coronapas and the lifting of the one and a half meter rule. Then I asked Mr Hijink, who is against the coronapas, what do you want? The answer was: we can let go of the 1.5 metres, but we are not in favour of the tickets. Other than that, I didn't actually hear what the SP wanted. You think the strategy of the cabinet is wrong, but the strategy of the SP was actually the same as that of Mr Wilders: lift all measures and keep a little distance. So the question for now, of all those caregivers who are looking at you, is: what would you like to happen now, other than the current proposal of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u185	This is really a bullshit story from D66. I have already tried to make that clear in response to the interruptions of various people: we do not think that you should be blindly staring at the use of tickets at the moment, because it has not worked as a means to control the number of infections and has not worked to substantially increase the number of vaccinations, which was the secret wish of the cabinet. So that's why we weren't in favour of it. Then what are we for? We are in favour of measures which work and which have also worked in the past waves we have seen. As an example, I mentioned homework: not a half-baked homework advice, but a serious task for people to work at home if they can. What else can you do? I'll get to that later. We're talking about the mouth caps, we're talking about testing policy. We just need to look at the basic measures that we know are working, because we need to control that virus now. Mr. Chairman. What is the government's strategy for the coming winter? As we have just seen, RIVM figures show that 44% of the people who ended up in hospital last month have already been vaccinated. I would like to stress once again how important it is for everyone to be vaccinated, but these are serious figures, also for people who have had that vaccine. That is why I once again call for generic policy, and not just for those corona tickets. Let anyone who can do that work at home for the time being. Give the advice we had before: work at home, unless there is no other way. Limited mass meetings if too many people can get infected there. Bet a lot more on increasing the vaccination rate. Don't bet any more on tickets, because that's not gonna help the Netherlands. They offer too little certainty, but they do lead to very great contradictions. I would like to know from the cabinet: how is it that this controversial measure has suddenly become the core of the corona policy? It is now even presented in places where it is totally impossible, for example in amateur sport. We're not gonna do that seriously, are we? How can the cabinet, because that is the proposal, within a week after the deployment of more tickets.... the 12th is the new weighing moment.. decide on extending the tickets to the workplace, for example? You can't do that, can you? Within that week, you will still have no results from the measures you have taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u186	There is an interruption by Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u187	Mr. Hijink almost says between nose and lips: limit meetings. I would have liked to have explained this a little bit more, because I conclude that Mr.Hijink would rather forbid people from doing any nice things with each other than using the corona admission ticket to keep those fun things going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u188	I don't feel like some executioner who forbids people from doing nice things. I just want to make a sober analysis of where we are in this epidemic right now. I note that the number of infections is rising very rapidly and that the number of hospitalisations is rising very rapidly, and that for the most part, especially if you look at it relatively, it is people who have not been vaccinated, but also people who have been vaccinated. If I hear Mr Paternotte but also Mr Van Dissel say "such an Amsterdam Dance Event, well, that results in 1,000 infections; that is what we really do not like," I think: yes, that is exactly the wrong approach. These are 1,000 people who get that virus there, who then pass it on to others and thus also ensure that the older generation in particular gets back into hospitals. I'd be happy to enter into the discussion here. If you think that the number of infections should be reduced and fewer people in the hospital, then you should also dare to talk about which meetings you want to continue and which not.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u189	We have just indicated that we are more in favour of keeping young people in place. Because, like I said, when you're 16, a year is really longer than when you're 61. Do I actually hear Mr. Hijink say: such an Amsterdam Dance Event should have just been banned, instead of using corona tickets to see what we can all keep open?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u190	I would like to stress that with the use of tickets, this event has resulted in 1,000 infections. I do not know exactly how people in this room can find that little. I think that is quite a lot, especially when we are all supposedly trying to reduce the number of infections here. Then 1,000 infections at such an event is a lot, isn't it? Then I should like to put the question to the cabinet: is it wise to organise large meetings like this when the virus is also going around among people who have been vaccinated, who can also transfer the virus? We've seen the big risk. It did not just happen during this event; it happened on a smaller scale. After all, we see some of the big outbreaks popping up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u191	I'm not going to spend all my interruptions on Mr. Hijink, but at least I conclude that it's clear: you don't want to put in a corona pass, but you want to limit many more meetings. So I'm gonna take that with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u192	Oh, that's so lame. I put the question to the cabinet: how smart is it to organise large-scale meetings at this stage of the epidemic, where we see the virus going around like a bonfire among vaccinated and unvaccinated people? How wise then is it not to extend homework advice to a much more serious task for people to work at home if they can, or unless there is really no other way? I think that we should all do our best to reduce the number of infections and that we all have a responsibility in this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u193	I think we're agreed that we need to get those infections down. But I do think that if you ask the rhetorical question, you should also have an answer to it, and that you should also have an answer to the question of which package you then have as an alternative and whether that actually leads to the same thing. Then we can talk about it or we think that, for example, the vaccinees are too limited. But I do think that you should also give an indication of this, because otherwise we do not know what the SP stands for and what package of measures it wants to saddle the Netherlands with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u194	That's some bullshit. We are in favour of extending the use of mouth caps where this can help. There is, of course, that proposal. We are in favour of dedicating people much more strictly to work at home when possible. I would like to ask whether it would not be wise to look at the other measures we have used in the toolbox in previous waves, precisely because we see that the virus does not only affect people who have not been vaccinated to a great extent, but not only those who have not been vaccinated. I'm not the virologist here, so I'm not gonna say, with so many thousand people, you have to do this or that. I'll leave that assessment to the experts. Of course, I'm not gonna sit here and think of that on my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u195	I understand that it's complicated to decide which package it should be, including for MPs. But we have a number of advisers for that. They have also indicated to us what a number of sensible measures would be. Corona tickets are also included. Does the SP want to delete it completely? And what would she put in place for that? 'Cause there's got to be something to replace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u196	The question what you could do instead, I think I just answered. It is true that we do not believe that these tickets will help. Isn't that what the practice says? We had that debate here in September. They'd be deployed more. That would reduce the number of infections and allow more people to drive to the vaccination street. None of that happened. The number of infections has increased and the number of vaccinees has not substantially increased as a result of this measure. As a measure, it did not work on both these fronts. Then you also have to look soberly at what is needed right now to get control of the very rapid rise that we see in the hospitals. Then I find it strange that the cabinet, but apparently also the VVD, can only reason around that ticket and has completely forgotten what measures have helped us to contain the virus over the last year and a half. I'd like to look at that much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u197	I think we are in a very different situation and we should also look at the quiet majority of vaccinees, which I mentioned. They are hit very hard by a lot of measures proposed by the SP. But the question is as follows. Apparently, homework advice is the replacement for all the corona tickets. You want to stop doing that, and the alternative is to work completely at home? Because I think that's the only measure you're taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u198	No, that's not true. Because we also support the use of more mouth caps. We support all measures which can contribute, but which also prevent the contradictions in our society from getting worse. We also see this happening again in this debate. The use of tickets as a measure does not have sufficient effect. They cause a huge increase in the differences between people and groups. I also asked the Minister last week that I do not agree with that and that we should look at other measures. Mr. Chairman. If we were to use all those people who want to use the Cabinet as enforcers on QR codes in the neighborhood, in the community center and in people's homes, to talk about the usefulness of vaccination, wouldn't that get us a lot more? Would this form of prevention not produce much more than the repression we are now talking about? The SP wants such a vaccination offensive in neighborhoods and villages where the vaccination rate is currently very low. Go to people and explain to them the importance of vaccination. We see much more in that than in threat. We are also proposing a campaign in which people who have been in hospital, who have not been vaccinated and who have become seriously ill. Those are people like Jules we saw yesterday at RTL. He's a tree of a 51-year-old guy who got knocked down by corona. He has become a shadow of himself: he has lost his muscle, his voice and his taste. He probably needs to recover for months, because he was, in his own words, too late and too lax to take that shot. We think it is a very good idea to confront people with the choice they make. That's fine. That's different than knocking up the contradictions and saying to unvaccinated people: you're confiscating a bed on the ic that's not yours and that's supposed to be someone else's. We are very opposed to that. But it's fine to inform and confront people about the choices they make. Let patients speak. Let the doubters be persuaded to be vaccinated. Finally, Mr President. How do we deal with the stuff that has been bought by the Ministry recently? We read today that over 4 million rapid tests go through the shredder because they're due date. That's a shame, isn't it? EUR 30 to 40 million is wasted because the Ministry apparently did not see the point of putting these rapid tests in place. We also know that a small billion mouth caps that are not being used are still on the shelf, while there is now a duty to cover mouths in all kinds of places. The SP says put it in. Do not give the nonsense argument that we then distort the economy or the competition, or whatever the argument was. Surely such considerations should never be guiding when it comes to protecting public health. Mr President, thank you for stopping the time. Well, that worked out very well for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u199	I do not know if that was the intention at all, but I will at least give Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy the chance to do his last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u200	It was just about someone who had gotten corona and was sorry he hadn't taken vaccination. But is there also an eye for those who regret having taken vaccination? These are, for example, people who have lost their parents to unexplained sudden cardiac arrest, the thousands of people who have chronic inflammation of the heart muscle, all those women with menstrual disturbances and people with sudden cerebral hemorrhages. There's been a huge increase in all these types of complaints. This can only be due to one thing, namely vaccines and their side effects. That also makes sense, because these side effects have been clearly mapped out. The risk of this is one hundred to a thousand times greater for many populations than the risk of getting anything from corona. Do you have an eye for that? Do you ever talk to people who lost their parents or their partners because they took a vaccine because that stuff is incredibly dangerous to your system?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u201	You're vaccinating millions of people in the world, including in the Netherlands. Part of those people die, like people always die in a society with 18 million inhabitants. Indeed, people may die after receiving a vaccine within a few weeks or months. That could have all kinds of causes. You have a direct connection to vaccination. There's no connection. That's not proven. You're talking about the heart muscle. I also saw you tweeting around a chart; I think you have already deleted it. It was about a massive increase in the number of inflammations to the heart muscle. Why do people have heart muscle inflammation? Often due to a virus infection. That's a coincidence! When we talk about facts, I think it is important that Mr Baudet should stick to that and not send us into the woods here and keep the people who are following this debate away from all sorts of so-called consequences of vaccination, while we see the people who are really suffering from the virus in hospitals every day. These are people like Jules, yesterday at RTL, who were too late to be vaccinated and spent weeks in the hospital with a tube in their throats. I'd like to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u202	Thank you. I'm afraid you're out of interruptions, Mr. Baudet. Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u203	Mr. Chairman. We went for a summer or love, but dancing with Janssen unfortunately took only two weeks. Hope for a nice late summer ended in an old-fashioned autumn blues. Now we tobbedance again on the foam of a new corona wave and we are looking for new wave breakers. This cabinet has now devised more roadmaps, roadmaps and dashboards than the number of months of a calendar year. That would not in itself be so bad if the mistakes of the past were acted upon or learned from them, but unfortunately that does not seem to be the case. The coronapas was introduced in mid-September. Three weeks later, the number of hospitalisations and the occupation of the ic's have again increased worryingly. However, the cabinet did not decide to intervene until this week. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: will the cabinet in the future be able to control contagion? They are a better measure of ability to act quickly than hospitalisations and ic occupation. Is there room for learning ability at all? What confidence can we have that we will not act too late again when things go wrong? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the measures themselves. I believe that taking back the basic measures is necessary, but I still have a number of questions. Why don't we supplement this with quarantine rules? They are now relaxed, often unclear and often illogical. I think you should take this back when you mention the basic measures. Why not bet on improved protective masks now that we have more space and the corona crisis lasts longer? And the boosters, why are they available so late again? Why don't we get Janssen to booster again? Aren't we going to do the same things every time, as we saw in the first run-up to the vaccination strategy? Then we're gonna repeat the same conversations every time. Actually, I don't want to. Mr. Chairman. Then the expansion of the coronapas itself. Everything stands or falls with enforcement. For example, President Bruls of the Security Council himself indicated that we are not going to maintain amateur sports outside. I would therefore call on the Minister to take this out of the package immediately. That saves another motion. And how is the effect of the corona pass measured? Scientifically, that's thin. That's just a fact. It has to be and can be different. In addition, in a week's time we will have a new weighing-up for additional measures. For a year and a half we have to wait at least two weeks to measure the effect of measures, but Minister De Jonge can do it now, based on the medians; he looks like the Moonsisters. That's not real, is it? How serious is that weighting? Surely this extension of measures should have taken place by now? I'd like a response from the Minister. And will the cabinet prepare the one-and-a-half meter measure as an option, if the coronapas do not offer sufficient comfort? Mr. Chairman. Then the ICUs. There really is a need to scale up the ic's, but that is not settled from today to tomorrow and that is up to the employees; they are the biggest problem. I asked: why don't we see if offering free childcare can help make ICU employees work more? Can't we take care of them better: have take-out meals delivered, returned, picked up, serviced, dry cleaners... I don't care. If it's war and the front soldiers have to go forward, then we're also gonna equip them with the best equipment and give them the best support. These are now our front soldiers, in a crisis which unfortunately lasts longer than we consider desirable. I want to take care of them. I think that's important. Mr. Chairman. Many questions have been asked about the vulnerable neighbourhoods, where vaccination rates are still far too low. It ranges from Amsterdam Nieuw-West to the Biblebelt. There is a need for greater use of more low-threshold vaccination facilities, more vaccination buses, more information in different languages and the use of role models and renowned medical professionals who deserve respect there. Let's bet on as many test options as possible: from work to street corner. That is how it is regulated in Germany and in the Scandinavian countries. After all, sufficient test capacity is available. We just threw away 4.1 million more, and over the next few months that's going to happen again. In short, let's not waste that money. Mr. Chairman. [[Sentence could not be parsed: We zijn corona meer dan zat.]] The same applies to the ic nurse who is tired or the people who are waiting for urgent surgery. New measures are now needed to prevent a horror winter and to be able to look forward to a beautiful spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the previous Corona debate and also in the current Corona debate, I ask myself what is the role of the Chamber? What are our most important duties as MPs? Is that what you're proposing? Is that responding to other people's motions or responding to the noise of the day? Or is that checking cabinet policy? The latter is, of course, the case. In order to do so, we must be able to check whether measures are effective or proportionate. We need to be able to check that policy is also feasible. We also need to be able to check whether the cabinet makes no mistakes in thinking and does not have a tunnel vision. I'm worried about whether we can control these things properly. Mr. Chairman. Our fear is that extending the use of the corona tickets is being careless. When tests for access were introduced in the spring, dozens of field lab experiments preceded them. As a result, there were more possibilities in anticipation of the vaccine. However, for the current Corona Access Card, such experiments and such data are lacking, while the current Corona Access Card is fundamentally different in nature. It was not for nothing that we could read in the Catshuispieces last night that the contribution of the corona admission ticket is uncertain. According to Mr Van Dissel, the Chamber can find the basis in the risk assessment model of TU Delft. I've got that report right here with me. That just raises more questions. In the first sentence, it says: "The risk assessment model developed by TU Delft is based on information on infections from September to December 2020." So that was a year ago. That was the period before the delta variant existed and before we had the possibility of vaccination. Next, I read here that testing everyone is the most effective access card to control the virus. So that is not the current design of the corona tickets. I also read that this model is based on outdated information on the effectiveness of vaccines against infections. I ask this question because I want to know how effective the corona access cards are to contain the virus and also because they can provide false safety among vaccinees. They think: I have such a green tick, so I can go anywhere and I can get close to others again. In fact, it was precisely conscious of the communication policy that we could forget the 1.5 meter distance with such a green check mark. Mr. Chairman. The OMT also has doubts. I have a few questions for the cabinet and I would like a very precise answer. My first question is whether the cabinet is going to investigate as soon as possible the effectiveness of the corona pass to contain the virus. Can the Minister imagine that this gives the impression that the broadening of the use of corona access cards is primarily intended to increase the vaccination rate? How do we ensure that more people stay home from complaints and get tested for complaints? According to the OMT, these are the most effective ways to reduce the virus. What positive incentives can the government propose to increase the vaccination rate? As far as my group is concerned, there are very few taboos there. Is the cabinet planning to work with our German neighbours again, because 200 Dutch patients can be admitted in North Rhine-Westphalia, we hear from a German hospital director. And what is the cabinet going to do to keep education safe and sound in the coming winter? Mr. Chairman. Finally. What is the logic behind asking for corona tickets in amateur sport, when we know that outdoor transmission hardly occurs? I'd like to know from the cabinet: is this a diversion? I mean that today we can talk to the Chamber about it and we can talk about it at the technical briefing this morning, and then the cabinet can meet the Chamber. Or is this really a serious proposal? Mr. Chairman. I would also like a very precise answer to the question: what is the strategy behind the Corona policy? Six weeks ago, the cabinet announced that it wanted faster and more relaxations than the OMT recommended at the time. Various groups in this Chamber, but also all kinds of other people said: beware, because this may lead to a revival of the virus. That's what happened next. It's six weeks later now. What's happening here isn't happening because the virus is erratic. A lot of people have just calculated this and calculated that the number of infections is increasing. A lot of people also know what's gonna happen to us in the next few weeks. Of course, that also works with the support. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say again that the behavioral unit is also saying this. They say: "Scale down and then scale up is undesirable from the point of view of acceptance and compliance." I would like to ask the cabinet: how does it look back on this? I would very much like an honest answer to that, because we are all making mistakes in this crisis. Our group has also made mistakes. But every time the cabinet is asked, like yesterday at the press conference, we hear a very evasive answer. Mr. Chairman. Finally. I started my contribution by saying that we should take our controlling task seriously. Tonight at 00.38 hours, 447 pages of policy documents were sent to the Chamber. Less than 14 hours later, we have to discuss this with each other. I would like to say that, of course, acceptance begins with a common goal. It starts with a clear strategy. It starts with choices that people can follow and that we can control democratically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u206	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u207	Thank you, Mr President. I've had two déjà vu's in the last few weeks. The first one I had because once again, for the fifth time, we seem to be in an emergency, because the cabinet cannot control corona. I had my second déjà vu because this week the cabinet has again set up a national ban on chickens, because there are again outbreaks of avian influenza virus. Again, nearly 160,000 animals have been gassed in a week. Meanwhile, the stables are filled with these animals over and over again. Meanwhile, poultry farms in the Netherlands can still expand. My first question to the VWS Minister is therefore: how is he going to stop this now or at least make a pass to combat this dangerous virus? Mr. Chairman. Corona is also a serious virus. The fight against it is important. My group has always made a broad assessment. Similarly, the general mental health and well-being of young people have always been part of our balance of interests. Unfortunately, we have seen that the cabinet has been operating unreliable and unfairly since March 2020. Sectors that have always been able to count on the warm support of Cabinets with VVD and CDA are not put in the way of strobe or have received billions. I refer to slaughterhouses and aviation, which have been the case recently, while civil rights have often been easily removed and pushed aside. There would be no rewards for vaccinees. It was even a tough election promise from the VVD and the CDA. Everyone may remember the Prime Minister who enthusiastically struck a red button in this statement during RTL4's election debate. And what do we see now? First the cinema, the pub and the restaurant, and now also gyms and associations and museums: they are perks and rewards, only for people who are vaccinated. The Chamber has repeatedly asked the government to involve behavioral scientists in the policy. The cabinet hasn't listened to these behavioral scientists. Then it does not surprise us that in the last week we could read that the confidence of the Dutch in the government has fallen to a low point. It is precisely the distrust in the government that is a reason for many people not to be vaccinated. Do the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS also see that they have even played a bad role in this? Do they think that the steps they are taking are sufficient to restore that confidence? The Party for Animals, I say, doesn't think so. Mr. Chairman. Last week, during the Health budget debate, almost every group here in the Chamber talked about the importance of a healthy lifestyle, of which sufficient movement is a crucial part. It is therefore difficult to explain in this light that adults who want to go to a gym or sports field are denied that possibility because they may have to show a coronapas. Not for nothing did the KNVB, who called on the cabinet to withdraw the measure, also call on the bell. The Party for Animals wholeheartedly supports that call. Mr. Chairman. In the previous Corona debate, my group was clear: pretending that the coronapas is the solution takes us further away from home, not least because it causes a division in society. That's exactly what we're seeing now. My group said that the existing measures should be maintained and that they should be aimed at reaching groups of people who would like to be vaccinated. We saw at the briefing this morning that certain groups in the big cities are overrepresented in the unvaccinated. So it still doesn't manage to reach people in a language they understand or in a way they trust. This has created clusters of people who may have wanted to be vaccinated, but for whatever reason have not done so. Mr. Chairman. Instead of the cabinet doing everything reasonable to allow people without urge and compulsion to vaccinate voluntarily, it prefers to draw the map of scapegoat politics. Blaming unvaccinated people is a diversion to mask one's own failure. Instead of to prevent division into society "together against corona" was the slogan "the minister of VWS does the opposite as far as we are concerned. He's turning patients against each other. In doing so, the cabinet constantly gives the impression that vaccinees are safe, while experts, including WHO, warn that this is certainly not the case. Finally, Mr President. There are still plans on the shelf that may further affect fundamental rights, such as people taking away the possibility of testing and extending the coronapas to hospital visits, school or work. The government certainly does not have to count on the support of the Party for Animals if we are going to apply far-reaching measures of this kind. You may not be surprised. We also criticise the cabinet once again that there is no way to prevent future pandemics. While scientists warn that climate change and the loss of biodiversity will also create new pandemics, we hear nothing but fine words from this cabinet, but it remains silent when it comes to action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u208	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We were all hoping that Corona would be pretty much over by now, but it looks completely different. It is a journey that we always hope we have the last mountain climb ahead of us, but then another one pops up. Mr. Chairman. Everyone feels the fatigue. Everyone feels the grumpy. Somewhere we're thinking, how do we get through this? And yet I think we should do everything we can. The vaccines are good and they work, especially for hospital admissions. Oh, thank God. But that choice is made in freedom. That is why the Christian Union attaches great importance to good information, to trusting citizens and also to accessible and free testing as an alternative. That is why I do not see how a 2G policy, in which vaccination or recovery is only valid, would work or would be appropriate if you were in favour of the freedom of choice about vaccination. Mr. Chairman. Originally, a debate was planned on the long-term policy on corona. We are not getting there because of the current developments. That must tell us a lot. Now that we know more about the virus and we know that a very high vaccination rate doesn't solve everything, it is high time to work out in line with the WRR/KNAW report on the long-term scenarios so that society knows as much as possible what to do, as proportionately as possible and with a parate care. Because if we want to avoid division, protect vulnerable people and keep care sustainable and accessible, then we really need to look much more forward. I ask the Cabinet when there will be a response to this report. Let's move on to the situation. There's a lot to say about that. Especially in the G3 and the Biblebelt the worries are greatest. We know that following the basic measures is a huge help. I therefore urge you to: please, stick to it, help us all with that, yourself, your family, the people you love. I have previously called on the Minister not to remove all unvaccinated people as one group. Because yes, conscience concerns are there. There's still mistrust of the government. We may be seeing it to a great extent. Also we still see little or wrong information. That is why addressing as a single group is not useful and a targeted approach is. The old urban areas with high population density are now the most vulnerable. I'm gonna ask the Minister to take everything out of the closet. Come with permanent locations of information, free testing and vaccination options, not from nine to five, but aimed at living in the area or village concerned. What possibilities does the Minister see for groups that previously had conscientious concerns about the development of certain vaccines? As for customization in the neighborhoods and in the areas where the vaccination rate is low, I call on the mayors: please, stand up for it, you belong to that community and call on people to behave to get the infections down. Mr. Chairman. This winter for the third time becomes very spicy for care. What is the Minister getting out of the closet to keep hospital staff and, in particular, to bring them back for the winter months? Can he table with the sector for that? Mr. Chairman. In mid-September, my group voted against the broad introduction of the CTB. Our preference is to place as much responsibility in society as possible without new control by that government. We did not think the introduction at the time was appropriate and we asked for an alternative, but another choice was made. Nevertheless, we now see the infections increasing and we see the care squeaking and cracking. That places us in a new balance, and I have a few questions. What is there to say about the effectiveness of the CTB and what efficiency does the Minister see in the current enlargement? How does he argue that for outdoor activities in sport? The cabinet announces the preparation of new legislation, and I really insist on proportionality. The Christian Union remains convinced that the best way is to ensure that we are all responsible for preventing contamination and that, in areas where that occurs, people are given extra responsibility for each other. That also means testing, testing, testing. This also means a regional dashboard with measures such as contamination. It's the only way we're gonna keep taking care of the most vulnerable together. Does the Minister wish to develop this carefully, also in relation to the possible extensions of the CTB? I'm reading about the possibility of a CTB at work, and I have concerns about that. I believe that the question of proportionality should be answered very carefully. I therefore call on the trade unions to consider which agreements at this stage will help best and to inform the Chamber. Finally, Mr President. As contagions rise, especially in large cities, a safe shelter for homeless people is needed. I understand that this is not yet in order in some regions and that dormitories are threatening again. I would ask the Minister to allow the programme that ends at the end of 2021 to continue this winter to prevent this group of homeless people from walking on the streets in January at a time when, when I look at the curves Mr Van Dissel showed us this morning, the situation is not yet safe. We're going into exciting weeks. If everyone adheres well to the basic measures, then the tide can be reversed. Let's put our hands on that together. Let us give each other a hand and do our utmost to prevent even more people from getting very sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u210	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues. The mortality or death of corona is approximately 0.15%. That's the same mortality as a severe flu. In that respect, very little remains to be done. To add up the number of deaths, a statistical trick is being pulled. The number of coronados is spread over the years. If this had been done with influenza, we would now have countless influenza deaths. But as with all the other deaths we record, such as road deaths, cancer deaths and so on, they are counted per season and possibly per year. So the flu wave of the winter 2016/2017 caused 8,890 deaths and the flu wave of 2017/2018 caused 8,885 deaths. That's 17,775 deaths together. The two last corona seasons taken together resulted in 18,397 deaths. So that's pretty much the same number.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u212	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u213	I have a Turkish background and I have the proverb: olana ve ölene çare yok. That means that what has been done and what has died is not a solution. Death is irreversible. The fact that a member of parliament reacts to death several times, including through social media, including when a footballer falls dead after a heart attack, says more than enough. That's what I wanted to say here. The rest of what comes out of his mouth is all bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u214	What I said about that footballer of course referred to the fact that there are now all news reports that the flu would all cause unexplained heart attacks. That's bullshit, of course. It's those vaccines. Those vaccines cause blood clots and those blood clots cause heart attacks. That's why we see such an exponential, extreme increase in reports of heart attacks, of cerebral haemorrhages, of paralysis, you name it all. Those are just recorded side effects from those vaccines. Every weekend a soccer player spontaneously drops dead. You didn't used to. It's not the flu. That's because of the vaccinations. It's criminal, it's irresponsible, it's outrageous that you all here neglect those side effects, that you look away!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u215	Mr. Baudet, Mr. Baudet. Mrs. Gündoğan just had an interruption. I don't want you to use the word "you." It's just a debate with someone standing by the interrupting microphone. Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u216	I stand by it: with sickness and death, we must always be careful, from ethics and morality. We shouldn't be squeezing about such matters, whether they be HIV, heart attacks or corona. I think we can give many more examples. It concerns me, as Roxane van Iperen said so beautifully, about the bottom of ethics. But there's no ethics at the FvD. That's why they can easily sink through the bottom of ethics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u217	What is your question to Mr Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u218	I would like to ask why he has become as he has become and he dares to spread so much disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u219	I would also like to ask you, Mrs Gündoğan, to ask a substantive question. This is also a bit on the person.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u220	"Why are you such a bad person?" Actually, the question is... I think what I'm saying is actually right. I'll give you the numbers of flu mortality and corona mortality. They're pretty much one-on-one the same. The IFR, the infection fatality ratio, is set at 0.15% worldwide. It's the same as influenza. I didn't react because I don't mind a soccer player falling down on a field, but I reacted to the idea that that would come from flu. That's the fake news that suddenly gets spread here: oh, we expect a lot of cardiac arrests coming flu season. That's not the point at all. Of course, that is not the result of the flu at all. Probably because of the vaccinations. That's a very serious conversation I want to have, on content, on the basis of facts, on the basis of data. There are. Those side effects rates are there. Also in Israel, the most pricked land on earth, people are now waking up. They have something like that: wait a minute, do we have to continue with these vaccinations? That's happening right now. Because of that tunnel vision here in the Lower House and by the Cabinet, that look away... Hugo de Jonge always sits with his back towards me. He doesn't even listen anymore. He's not even open to argument anymore. He gets orders from Bill Gates. He gets orders from Klaus Schwab.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u221	Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u222	That's it. They're doing it. It is not the humanitarian, economic and social disaster that is taking place in the Netherlands, not because of corona, but because of the vaccinations and because of the ridiculous QR-codes! Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u223	Mr Baudet and dear colleagues, I think it is important that we debate the content here. It's "the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport." I would also ask the Minister, if an elected Member of Parliament is to speak, to pay attention to this. We may differ, but the debate is being held here in the Chamber. I would also like to appeal to colleagues to the interrupting microphone to talk about the content and not play on the person.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a result of your request, I also have a request for you, Mr President, but perhaps that is a point of order. If an elected representative is diagnosing a man who falls dead on the field during football, I find that dangerous. I think that the President may well remind him that he is not a doctor, that he does not know the case and that it is not up to him. It is very inappropriate, especially to the relatives of this fallen down footballer. I would be grateful if the President would address this Member.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u225	You're appealing to me. I think we should have the debate on this with each other. I am pleased that Mr Baudet is being called upon to do so. I think Mrs Gündoğan has just done so, and I think you are doing so now. That is also the way it should be in a parliamentary democracy: one speaks to one another in the debate in plenary. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u226	You can imagine that, with the increase in this type of dangerous diagnosis made by someone who is not competent to do so, it would cost an average MP a great deal of interruptions to come up against that every time. While most of us here today want to have a substantive debate on the corona virus. Everyone is responsible for their own words, that is true, but you, as President, share responsibility for what is happening here in this Chamber, and I repeat my request to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u227	I would also like to say to my fellow Members that it is a good thing that you are interrupting and that you are holding the debate with Mr Baudet. I give the floor to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u228	What's she trying to say? I'm incredibly contentious. I speak on the basis of facts and statistics. I have a pile of graphs here that support my argument. Even in the General Reviews I had a very serious immunological story about the problems of vaccinations, the problems of QR codes and so on. It's just the room that plays the emo card every time and tries to corner me with a whole story, with a list of names and this and that. World War II is also being called in. They always play that emo card.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u229	I'd like to ask you right now if you'd like to prosecute.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u230	I'm responding to an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u231	Sure. I would ask you to continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u232	I would like to talk about the content, so I challenge the Chamber to interfere with what I say about the mortality of corona. I'm saying something about that and not about all those things on Twitter. The second point. The effectiveness of the lockdowns. Is it because those lockdowns have worked so low that mortality is so low? That's what they say. That's just demonstrably not true. I have Florida figures here compared to all the other states in the U.S. Florida has taken the least measures and has the least infections. The same applies to the comparison between Lithuania and Sweden. Sweden has taken very few measures and Lithuania has taken a great deal. Sweden has far fewer infections than Lithuania. In Australia, since the introduction of all measures, there has been an exponential increase in infections. Keeping people at home makes them infect each other. Because you're talking people down, their immune system's going down. Because you take away people's jobs and because you take away people's freedom to go outside, they can't fight all those infections and so you get a lot more infections. People sit at home, contamination goes through air conditioning, contamination goes through mouth caps, it doesn't make any sense at all. All the statistics show that. Then there's those vaccines. Are those vaccines working? How's the state of Vermont? Our great example. Hugo de Jonge sits with his back to me again, while you just turned him right. What a lack of respect! That man only listens to what he wants to hear in an echo chamber. I'll show you here, Vermont, after 90% was punctured: an exponential increase in the infections. Are you paying attention, Hugo?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u233	Mr. Baudet, it's the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. It's not "Hugo," but it's "the minister." I ask the Minister to listen carefully to a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u234	Yeah? Shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u235	No, Mr. Baudet, you're not speaking to the Minister. You will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u236	These are the official figures for the infections of vaccinees in the United Kingdom. 85% of the coronados have been vaccinated in the United Kingdom. Hugo de Jonge, who is still sitting with his back to me, refuses to give the primary hospital data. The Judasa Alliance and Omtzigt support him in this. Apparently, they don't want to know what RIVM uses as data to make comments like "the vaccines work" and "it's a pandemic of the unvaccinated." Probably because they don't have the data at all or because they don't have the data. And then the side effects...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u237	Mr. Baudet, I'd also like to ask you not to offend. The Judasco coalition is an insult. I just want to ask if you too would like to have the debate on the content. I think you just said the same thing to me. Let us have the debate on the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u238	It is very important to say that parties who present themselves as opposition are simply protecting the government. Let's get the primary data. Let's just check it out. We get a lot of messages from hospitals and care workers. They all say that the vast majority of us have been vaccinated. I just got an e-mail from an ic: out of the 12 people lying there, nine were fully vaccinated. So they were corona people, too, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u239	There is an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u240	I have to apologize for being a little late because I was with the informers. A little too late, but during this debate the letter from the RIVM came. We'd have asked for that too. He's also in the mailbox of all the MPs. Indeed, it states that in October 45% of hospitalisations consisted of people who were vaccinated and 55% consisted of people who were not vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u241	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u242	Mr Omtzigt has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u243	Those are the numbers we got. There's an increase in the number of vaccinees. That's exactly why we asked for it. The idea that we do not want these figures is far from my point of view. I think it's a lame comment, too. Two. Individual figures of ic's were requested. There are about 240 people in the ICU departments in about 70 hospital groups with about 115 to 120 hospital locations. That means there are two or three people on the ICU in a lot of hospitals. If you get a state per hospital that says they're both vaccinated or unvaccined, it'll come out. On a slightly more aggregated level, that's fine. An extra check? Fine. I'm just saying clearly why I voted against it. However, I do want all the data. You can wake me up to give the data every day, just not per person. Nor have I asked about all 150 Members of Parliament who were vaccinated. We made the deal not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u244	Then I have a proposal for Mr Omtzigt. Because I've prepared a motion. Of course it could have been done with the previous motion, but we are just going to do it again. The motion states that the primary registry data, i.e. the raw data, will be given to us as MPs for inspection, otherwise we cannot do our checking work, and that the data will be pooled so that the information is anonymized. Mr Van Houwelingen and I have tabled an extensive motion for this. I challenge you to support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u245	I'm gonna take a look. I'm fine with having data that's a little more specific, as long as it doesn't affect privacy. I'm just saying. We are dealing here with a Member of Parliament who first does a history, which is forbidden for every doctor in the Netherlands,...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u246	What kind of history are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u247	About someone who falls dead somewhere on a football field and you decide what happened there, when there is no public statement given about it, either by the family, or by a doctor, or by anyone else. Now it's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u248	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u249	I'm just saying, because statistics happen to be my field of expertise. I want all the data. Of all my parliamentary questions over the past 18 years, they've gone pretty crazy about my data questions. I want all the data, but not specific people. I don't want individual tax returns, I don't want individual files on someone's health lying here. Something more aggregated could be...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u250	And your question to Mr Baudet is?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u251	I do hesitate if he thinks that, as Members of Parliament, we should have confidential access to the hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u252	I think that's absolutely true. Yeah, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u253	It is clear that I do not think that we should look at the situation professionally with 150 people. But if he thinks there's an independent statistician or a doctor who needs to certify whether it's true, then that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u254	We need to be able to check those data, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u255	No, Mr. Baudet, Mr. Omtzigt is speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u256	One suggestion that you can make is to put it out externally, if you think it needs to be validated. But to be perfectly honest, there is a fairly open communication about data. I would have preferred to have seen that a little more often, but they're in the letter that just came in a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u257	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u258	So, are we moving on? Then the Minister of Health can pay attention again because we are moving on. The risks of vaccinations in the meantime. The vaccinations barely work, the mortality of corona is negligible and similar to the flu. Lockdown measures do not work to prevent infections and the vaccinations have very many side effects. In the United States, 15 out of 100,000 young, healthy people get heart muscle inflammation, 16 out of 100,000 in Europe. So that is a risk of very serious health damage that is dozens of factors greater than the risk that this group runs to get something from corona. Those are official figures. You can't ignore that. Mr. De Jonge, you look away again, but you can't ignore that. Those are the official figures. Over 8,500 Americans died after taking the shot. In the last six months, there has been an unexplained over-death rate of 5,300 people in the Netherlands. There are only 1,200 official coronadods registered, so it is almost impossible that the over-death rate of thousands is due to the vaccinations. There's hardly any other explanation for that. And again, the room looks away. You're ignoring it. What's the matter with you guys, you just sticking around in that tunnel vision? The long-term effects of vaccinations are completely unknown. Michael Yeadon, former top man of Pfizer, says that this can have very serious consequences in the long term. It's called antibody-dependent enhancement. That's how it works with all kinds of viruses. If you release gene therapy, the spike protein can attach to new variants of corona and trigger a heavier attack on your immune system. That's what immunologists say; that's what's said all over the world. But before that, too, the Chamber closes its eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u259	Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u260	It's hallucinating. We live in an absurd horror movie. People in the Netherlands are starting to see that more and more, but you look away in the Chamber and in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u261	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. You're through your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u262	Look at them looking away! It's amazing what's happening!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u263	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt. Mr. Baudet. You can give your overview via the messengers to your colleagues and the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u264	Mr. Chairman. I will also be critical of the cabinet, but for other reasons. I always try to be as factual as possible, so I hope we'll find each other there. I quote from an article in today's AD entitled "Corona policy "epic failure" according to experts: "With press conference alone you can't make it." In this article, Bas van den Putte, Professor of Health Communication, and Arjen Boin, Professor of Public Institutions and Governance, speak in plain language. Terms used as "shrinking lack of learning ability," "not being a leader" and "epic failure." For me, the most striking thing was that they put the finger on the right place of failing policy. I quote: "According to Boin, the Dutch cabinet has "conquered a fairy tale." "Virologists have been saying for a long time that you cannot vaccinate from a pandemic. But the line the cabinet was carrying was that if everyone got a shot, it would be over with corona. An idiot high percentage of the Dutch, 86 percent, has also been vaccinated. And yet it's going the wrong way again. Then the story you told just doesn't add up." Structurally, the main predictive variable, which is the number of infections, is not seriously, adequately or quickly responded. It is only when the health care infarction becomes so serious that it is realized that the policy is seriously failing. And instead of learning lessons, such as those from the KPMG report, it is pretended to have been sent to infections afterwards. That is obviously not the case, because who sends on infections, behaves towards those infections. And that's not gonna happen. It is not just the words of the cabinet that support this, but above all the actions or, more specifically, the absence of those actions. Because who else is gonna think about taking action only a month later when the infections rise? At the beginning of October of this year, the infections increased, but the OMT did not meet until the end of October. While we've known for a year and a half that the virus is growing exponentially. Those who have difficulty with exponential growth can read the legend of the chessboard. In that legend, the first box of the chess board accounted for one grain of rice and the 64th box accounted for over 18 trillion grains of rice, enough to feed the current world population for two centuries. There is therefore no logical or reasonable explanation, after more than one and a half years of experience with this virus, certainly not with Mr Rutte's explanatory statement. He stated that the Netherlands had pursued the same policy as the rest of Europe. What the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and, for example, Sweden have done is really different from what Denmark, Norway and Finland have done. I'd like a response. For example, Mr Ernst Kuipers gave the number of 4,000 infections as a border. We're now, what I understand, over 9,000. That's more than double what we know. Because it is probably even worse than we know, because a country like Denmark is testing five times as much. We just can't see it. But I have more objections to the policy. This is the constitutional task enshrined in Article 22 of our Constitution, which describes the public health obligation. COVID-19 is a category A virus. That's the toughest category, including smallpox and polio. It's more serious than diphtheria, plague or cholera. This virus therefore demands and demands that there be a rapid response. What's the rush? Not only me, but also the WHO is surprised. I'd like a response. Then the booster shot. It's nice that it seems to be in sight, but I still have a question about that. Does this classification also apply to vulnerable people, such as people with multiple disabilities living at home, or only to those living in an institution? And I would like to know what remains of the plan to solve the care infarct of both the delayed care, about 200,000 surgeries according to the NZa, and the care staff. It's a really big problem. I also want a plan for how we deal with this pandemic until Q2 next year. I have an interruption, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u265	That's right. There is an interruption by Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u266	I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Gündoğan for the support she has given in the previous debate. I'll come back to the article in the AD you mentioned. It also says: 'I think that the measures announced at that time would have been sufficient in themselves if they had been complied with'. You didn't mention that. You then refer to countries such as Denmark and Finland. As CDA, we have often said that it is frustrating, because if we were to follow the basic measures, we would need almost nothing else. It's people's behavior, isn't it? We are different in the Netherlands from the people in Denmark and Finland. I would like Mrs Gündoğan to reflect on these cultural aspects, because I think that is also important for the measures we need to take here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u267	We were just talking about that back here. Let me explain in plenary. I'm a member of a European party for a reason. I think the cultural differences are quite small. What the professors say is that it's about constant communication. I'm not trying to make it personal by playing the man, but I think the communication about the mouth cap by a minister who sings a bit of a faint song doesn't contribute to that. This causes the severity of the disease to be undermined. The Danes and also the Germans, and especially the Norwegians, have communicated much more with that feeling of a category A virus. They have not only done this once in a press conference, but they are those who continue to repeat communication structurally, for example by sending text messages to people. I think there really was more room in there. But you also have a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u268	Mrs Van den Berg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u269	This is also my last interruption. I would like to know what Mrs Gündoğan would like to ask the cabinet at the moment in terms of communication. We see that there are certain fireplaces and that certain groups of people are badly reached. We have clearly seen that vaccination helps us enormously, not only to protect yourself, but also to protect someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u270	I totally agree with vaccination. It's obvious that you're just saying that you're gonna protect......................................................................................................................................................... The more variables you have, because you're older, because you're heavier or because you have other diseases, the more important it is. I think that we should focus on communication about compliance with the measures and, above all, on testing, testing, testing, and also on non-complaints, preventive testing. We must, as Ernst Kuipers says, really send on infections, with 4,000 as number. I also think it is very good to ask the OMT for a number of communication experts, as these professors also expressed, so that the line remains consistent in the future. That could be very helpful. I think that the Netherlands can find the resilience again to embrace stricter policies, because it is precisely in that stricter policy that there is more freedom, combined with security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u271	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u272	I was with Germany and Q2 next year. I'm going to dedicate my last words to vaccination. No, it's not a miracle cure. Yeah, it sure as hell protects you. So: Vaccinate! And then I have something else to say to those who share misinformation, here in the Chamber or outside. Shame on you! You're playing with other people's lives. Life is precious. People only have one of them, and death has no solution. Death is irreversible and final. And as for the platforms that continue to spread this disinformation, shame you even more! You say one thing, but you do the other. You're a follower of the god Mommon. Money is your only motivation to make a bad contribution to society by indirectly sowing death and destruction. I call upon you to take responsibility here. And I ask the Minister for a response: how does he deal with this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u273	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. Then I give the floor to Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u274	Mr. Chairman. "There are 69 hospitals in the Netherlands. In many of the total 116 locations there are some patients with corona. Most of them are in a regular department. That does not mean that the Dutch health care system is failing." So says Professor Marcel Levi. The bottleneck, as I have repeatedly argued, is the intensive care. The Netherlands does not have enough ic-capacity. We can't get that capacity up in the next month and I'll get back to you on that, but we can definitely handle the capacity we do have smarter. Professor of intensive care Armand Girbes tells us how we can solve the problem of full ic's by organising it differently and smarter. I quote: "Why not free certain hospitals or hospital wings for corona care or regular care?" The well-known counter-argument is that the nurses are not there to man these departments. That's what Girbes says: it's natural and-and. We'd better recruit by organizing better. We can do this by, for example, working with fewer and longer services, providing attractive and caring secondary conditions of employment and deploying separate teams with specific tasks. Mr. Chairman. It is possible to regulate the ic treatment of covid patients much more efficiently by taking care of a larger group together in one hospital. Girbes indicates that, for example, in Madrid and Lombardy, specific hospitals have been set up for covid patients only. The ministry of VWS doesn't even have to do the heavy lifting, because Girbes has already offered to set this up himself. Is the Minister prepared to accept the outstretched hand of experts who have the knowledge to organise this well and quickly? Mr. Chairman. Back to the fact that we can't get the ic capacity up in a month. That's different than that doesn't have to happen at all. Other countries have started to train intensive staff in the last year. They're making serious work of that. Meanwhile, our country remains behind. We're especially good at telling you why it can't be done, like it's a law of nature. To quote Marcel Levi again: "If we get a bit of a flu wave, we're already tight." I call on the cabinet once again to put all the cards on the increase in ic capacity in the short term, because we have already lost too much time. We see the same lack of decisiveness in the introduction of serological tests. There is a great need to use serological tests as a basis for a recovery certificate. But more importantly than that, it provides us with indispensable information on the spread of immunity in the Netherlands. We know the data from Sanquin's PIENTER corona study on antibodies in the blood, but does this actually reflect the degree of immunity in the Netherlands? If we can detect the gaps, we can focus on positive vaccination campaigns, so where most is needed, and then we also know whether we should not be rushing booster vaccines, because immunity from vaccines, for example, is decreasing in the long term. In the current situation, where it sometimes seems as if the ministry is in the dark, this information seems indispensable to me. The Chamber has unanimously recognised this need with the clear mandate of the Minister to address it. Meanwhile, the US FDA, the federal agency for the testing of medicines, has approved 86 serological tests. In more and more laboratories, serological diagnostics to covid are possible. As mentioned, Sanquin blood bank also has the necessary expertise when it comes to these tests. There's no shortage of scientific evidence. But more importantly, it is not up to the OMT to question the usefulness of introducing these tests, but to advise on the implementation. My group therefore demands more from the Minister than to sit back and wait. Is the Minister prepared to use his influence actively to implement this motion as soon as possible? And does he want to seek advice that is specifically focused on what the implementation should look like? In the meantime 87% of the population has been vaccinated. The vaccination rate is still growing, 0.2% weekly. That is wonderful, because vaccination contributes to a very large part to the containment of corona. But the basis is voluntary, and that's what it's supposed to be. As far as JA21 is concerned, we use the line of the Our Lady Guest House in Amsterdam: vaccination is a right, not a duty. That is why we will not support a further extension of the corona pass. Mr. Chairman. There's so much to do. There's as much as possible. But it's not about whether we can do it. It is about whether we want it, whether we really feel the urgency to walk beyond the flattened paths. Whether we dare to take steps that offer perspective. This should be the focus of the cabinet's efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u275	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. Then we go to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of BBB in this debate, because Mrs Van der Plas cannot be present to her grave regret. Mr. Chairman. The press conference last night began with binding, understanding words from the Prime Minister: be a little mild for each other, even when there is a difference of opinion. That's what I agree with, and that's what I'm underlining. We also fully share the call for everyone to comply with the basic rules and take them seriously. But still, what a contrast that was with the far-reaching proposals that emerged in the second part of the press conference, in which we felt that the coronapas was mainly used as a lifeboat. That gave me a sense of tightness. Because what exactly does that mean? Over and over again the cabinet has outlined the beckoning perspective of a high vaccination rate, the light at the end of the tunnel. Then Corona would be under control. That would put an end to the restrictions on freedom. And now, while no less than 87.5% of adults have been vaccinated, far-reaching measures are being announced. I am not saying this in a reproachive way, but in a factual sense: we are going to come back to a new phase, which raises many new questions. How far are you going with this? How long are you gonna be on this road? So what exactly is the final perspective? My group, too, with Mrs Bikker, who has already mentioned it for a while, is looking forward to this long-term debate, in order to discuss these scenarios with each other. Mr. Chairman. A feeling of tightness, also because time and time again by the cabinet it has been said that there will be no vaccination constraint, directly or indirectly. And the whole room said no compulsion, no urge. But now there are plans on the table to be able to ask for the corona pass in work situations, in care, and even for sports activities and under certain conditions the retail trade. If all this does not help enough, perhaps later a coronapas in education or the deletion of the test certificate as an alternative to the vaccination certificate. This is a cause for concern for many citizens. Where does this end? When are we ever gonna quit that coronapas? What exactly is the purpose of this approach and when has it been achieved? Mr. Chairman. The threshold for unvaccinated people to participate in public life is further raised. A conscious choice of the cabinet. I wonder if it is also an informed choice to make more and more use of that corona pass, because I see that cabinet advisers are also critical. Some voices: the contribution of the corona pass is uncertain; do not use the corona app as a means of vaccination drive; the introduction of a corona pass for employees is not necessary if there are other options to reduce risks, such as working at home and staying at home in case of complaints. The OMT explicitly advises: do not enter a coronapas into the care, as it is not clear whether the use of the coronapas for care workers has added value to the health of vulnerable patients, it may lead to the departure of care workers and it is a major burden on unvaccinated partners, parents or children of patients. Behavioural scientists stress: do not put down subgroups as scapegoats; the effective fight against the pandemic requires the use of as large a proportion of the population as possible, so it is important to take seriously and not exclude citizens who have not been vaccinated for all kinds of reasons. My important question is: what does the cabinet do with the alarm signals of these advisory bodies? Why does the Cabinet want to continue on this slippery path? In a number of interruptions it already emerged: what then? It is easier to say: we do not agree. But then what? The OMT emphasizes time and time again that there is a lot to gain with better compliance with the basic measures: stay at home with complaints, let you test for complaints, give others space, ventilate. I would also like to call for more work to be done to increase compliance with these simple basic rules by everyone, vaccinated and unvaccinated. I would also like to see how we can make greater use of employers, local authorities and civil society. Because isn't it also a bit the point that we haven't been very encouraged to take on our own responsibility in the past crisis period? It's very bad about: sit down and see what The Hague announces. Should we not activate much more the own responsibility of the societies? Make real work of the rapid introduction of innovative medicines. Does the cabinet choose to buy them on parole? Is an implementation plan being prepared so that the medicines can be provided to patients as soon as possible after authorisation? We support the strengthening of urgent opinions and compliance by all. We need to learn to live together with the virus. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question on what Mrs Pouw just said. A year ago, a motion was tabled with Mr Veldman to deal with corona patients in a limited number of hospitals in each region. What has actually been done with this motion, to put these plans into practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u277	There is an interruption by Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u278	I appreciate that Mr Van der Staaij is trying to indicate alternatives, but it is still about maintaining and encouraging the basic rules. I think we should not look too idealistic at that either. I would like to know what the alternatives are if it is not possible to maintain, introduce and respect all these rules of conduct for people. Because then there's actually no alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u279	As far as basic measures for everyone are concerned, I should also like to mention that the coronapas may have had an effect, and we hear those stories around us that people have become too careless. We shouldn't think too easily that once you get that QR code, you can go free. No, we can't, especially when the infections are increasing considerably again. So it really requires the awareness that we don't say: with that pass everything is okay and you have a passport for freedom. That's not how it works. I also said: I do not expect us to be there with a simple call for these measures to be complied with. You will also have to look more actively at how to involve society itself and look at where the problems are, what they are and how to ensure better compliance. There's still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u280	I know that the SGP does indeed have fundamental objections to the corona admission ticket, but I do wonder what the alternative will be later. Let's say you'd end up in a lockdown and you'd have to close sectors again, which we'd do a lot to prevent. Is that the route that the SGP prefers rather than possibly keeping a sector open with corona tickets?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u281	We really do not think that these restrictions on freedom of movement of this kind are justified and proportionate. We're really in a new phase right now. You first had the acute phase that we were dealing with in the beginning and where we actually didn't know exactly what was happening. At that stage you could take very far-reaching measures, also on the basis of emergency regulations, some of which we said: hey, that actually went too far. A second phase followed with the Corona Act, in which, pending a high vaccination rate, which was an important argument, we used a strong containment of the virus and took a number of measures. But we could not go on indefinitely, because they are freedom-limiting measures. So now we are really at the stage where we have to learn to live with the virus and also have to look critically at all the points that have been mentioned today: increasing care capacity, concentration of care, compliance with the measures. That is the route we see ahead, not the reflex of freedom-limiting measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u282	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u284	Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Why do Mr Rutte and Mr De Jonge pretend that Dutch people are retarded? Why do they think they fall for their lies? Why is this place constantly being messed up and manipulated? Mr. Chairman. It's the same charade every time, and I'm sick of it. On the weekend before the press conference, the possible measures will be leaked from sources surrounding the cabinet. The resistance of these measures is then assessed. At the end of the press conference, they are dressed up nicely by Mr Rutte and Mr De Jonge. There's a lot of bullshit to critical questions from the press. In the end, the parliament will be put in front of an accomplished fact. The measures are pushed through the throats of millions of Dutch people. Mr. Chairman. When I look at a press conference like this, it reminds me of an episode of the Fabeltjeskrant, in which Mr. de Owl takes the viewer to Fabeltjesland. It's myths. We are presented with fables from the fable manufacturers Rutte and De Jonge and not for the first time, but for the umpteenth time. I wonder when it's gonna stop? An example of such a myth is that there would be no curfew. I can still hear Rob Jetten from D66 say it. Then there had to be a curfew to contain the number of infections. D66 sold this principle for a half hour extra extension of the curfew, and later scientific research showed that the curfew did not contribute at all to the containment of the infections. Mr. Chairman. Another myth: there would never be a corona passport. I can still hear Hugo de Jonge say it on March 10, 2021. Later on, such a corona pass had to be introduced to give vaccinated people their freedom back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u286	Mr Kuzu, may I remind you that it is "the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport," "our Prime Minister" and also "Mr Jetten." In any case, let us stick to a number of standards of decency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u287	I'll keep an eye on it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Those people got their freedom back, while 1.8 million people, who had not been vaccinated for any reason, were restricted in their freedom. The vaccinees were expected to show their QR code at the entrance of, for example, the Amsterdam Dance Event, and at least 1,000 of them received corona. This example should therefore show that the corona pass with a QR code does not say anything. It's bogus security. So why is it being sent to expand the corona pass? Then I think it is right that a lot of people ask themselves the question: is this still about fighting the virus? Mr. Chairman. The fact that the coronapas would not be extended is another myth. However, this is now being done, supposedly to protect the care staff and not increase the pressure on the ic's. The group of DENK really draws a line here. 'Cause this is scary and it feeds suspicion. That's what the Health Minister has to charge himself. It is not for nothing that public confidence has fallen from 69% to 29% in just one and a half years. That's what the Prime Minister should be charging himself with. Because every time these gentlemen, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, promise that something is not going to happen, think of 2G or vaccination at work or at school, I see that as a threat nowadays. Every time the Chamber draws a line, makes a Chamber statement, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health are eager to jump over that line. They don't care about Chamberroom statements. The Netherlands has become a coronadicature. The corona coalition, with Mr Paternotte in the lead, follows her owner with waving tails. People are also really wondering: where does it stop, when does it stop, and does it stop at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u288	You provoked Mr Paternotte a number of times, so I give Mr Paternotte the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u289	Once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u290	I think... Well, at least Mr Paternotte will have the opportunity to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u291	I asked Mr Kuzu earlier today what he would actually do if he were sitting in the chair that Minister De Jonge is sitting on. He said, "I'm gonna tell you later." I can only observe that he has missed a great opportunity over the last four minutes to give just one example of what he would do if he had that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u292	I would focus on maintaining the basic measures. I'd really do a little more ventilation. I would do a little more work on what D66 hasn't done in the last year and a half, such as scaling up ic capacity, investing in staff, not waiting a year and a half before 675 million more was invested in healthcare staff's salaries. All that was left behind. And now you're asking me here with a pointing finger "what would you do about it?', while D66 has had the chance to do it for the last year and a half. I think that is a weakness offer from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u293	Mr Kuzu, I would like to ask you not to address you to another party every time, because that leads to another interruption and to a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u294	But he's facing me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u295	I would like to give Mr Paternotte the opportunity to respond very briefly, and then I would like to ask if you will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u296	I started my speech with what is going on in the hospitals, where more and more patients come in, where it is incredibly heavy, where heart patients and cancer patients are now being called off. The best experts we have, representatives of those hospitals and of intensive care and pediatrics doctors, have sat together and written advice. Mr Kuzu says: "No, I know better. Let us pay a little more attention to ventilation and keep to the basic measures. That's the approach; then it's gonna be okay." Not an expert who thinks so, but Mr Kuzu thinks so. That's fine, but let's be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u297	That, I think, is exactly the difference between Mr Paternotte and myself. Because I don't think you have to follow OMT's advice all the time; you can be critical of that. That's what we've seen in the past. Remember the curfew. This was a model tool that would show that the number of infections would decrease. We now see the same thing happening with the coronapas. It is based on a number of models that do not need to be based on truth. I think you can be very critical of that. The group of DENK will do that. We're not chasing this cabinet like a cheerleader. Mr. Chairman. In mid-August, this cabinet had been committed to abolishing all the corona measures as of 1 November. How cynical is it, then, that this same cabinet is now choosing to extend the measures at the beginning of November? It's yo-yo policy. Now that the cabinet has chosen this hopeless path of coercion and urge and saddles people with a vaccination obligation, my party is launching today's vaccination law hotline. Because on March 10, 2021, Hugo de Jonge, the Minister of Health, during the Corona debate, I preferred to make a big sign of it, but you shouldn't do that anymore: "It will never be an obligation for people to prove that they have been vaccinated. Never!" In Minister De Jonge's dictionary, "never" means "maybe so, but six months later or so." Mr President, I shall conclude. I therefore call on all people who experience that they are required to prove that they have been vaccinated to report at www.meldpuntvaccinationdwang.nl. My last seconds I use to repeat this: www.meldpuntvaccinationdwang.nl. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u298	I would like to ask a serious question about this. You will find that from the Chamber, and also from our party, there are quite a few critical questions. But we also know, of course, that vaccination works. We know that at least that works against hospitalization. We also know that it protects people better and prevents transmission. There are quite a lot of scientific reports about it. I would like to ask Mr Kuzu whether it is wise to set up a hotline in this way. Does this not help doubters, if they can easily come forward and thus get rid of the support base under vaccination? Of course, that is a challenge we face together: a large part of the Netherlands, 13%, still does not want or can not be vaccinated, for many different reasons. Shouldn't we be focusing on people having the right information instead of on this kind of hotlines?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u299	I understand Mrs Westerveld's point. I'm not against vaccination. I've had it myself. I've been honest with you about that, too. I think that everyone should consider whether or not they are going to be vaccinated. So I'm not from the school that says vaccinations don't work and don't help. I never said that. I won't. At the same time, we were the first in the Chamber to do so later, Mr Wilders also tabled two motions which stated that there should never be a direct or indirect vaccination obligation and that there should never be any compulsion or urge. What's happening now is that we're going down that road. I think I'm even convinced that that path, on which you oblige people to be vaccinated and to exercise compulsion and urge, will reduce the willingness to be vaccinated and to take good information to you. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u300	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u301	I understand this kind of argument. We have always said: testing should always be a full alternative, also because there are people who cannot be vaccinated. We've always made a point of that, too. We've always said, "Let's take them into account." But that's not my question. In recent years, hotlines have been set up for various reasons. My question is: is this the way we should do this? Should Mr Kuzu, with his party, not seek instead to ensure that people who are less accessible receive the right information instead of our energy going to these kind of hotlines? By people who are less accessible, for example, I mean people who are less literate, who are less good with the Dutch language and who live in certain neighbourhoods, of which we now know better and better where they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u302	I think the right information is important. For example, I also think it is very important to provide information in another language, so that you can better reach people. I also think that this has gotten going far too late. At the same time, I would like to make it quite clear that information is fine, but that hotline is intended to make it clear to what extent people feel compulsion or urge. That is becoming a serious problem in society, because you can see that this division is really ruling. I fully agree with Mrs Westerveld when she wonders: what should we put our energy into? I think we really need to make this problem clearer than it is today, this problem where people experience real compulsion and urge and we are increasingly moving towards a vaccination obligation, because in the future vaccination will also be compulsory on the workplace and perhaps later on in schools. We should not ignore that very easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u303	Finally, Mrs De Vries, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u304	I ended my speech by saying: let's keep each other together a little bit. That was a mean call. I also know Mr Kuzu's party and Mr Kuzu's party as someone who does not want to polarize. I really wonder whether Mr Kuzu's contribution, with all the insults he has thrown into the world, is contributing to the debate. Anyone can have a different opinion. Fine. You have to be critical, too. Absolutely. But I'm really wondering if this is gonna help.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u305	When we talk about division and polarisation, I would like to tell Mrs De Vries of the VVD a mirror. We have not been the party that supported these measures in such a way that this division in society has increased between vaccinated and non-vaccined. We are not responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u306	Mrs Gündoğan van Volt. Oh, a personal fact, Mrs. De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u307	I'm being addressed in person right now. You're giving room for that all the time. Then it would be fancy to do that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u308	I'll give you a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u309	I am not concerned that you should not disagree entirely with me. Fine. I'm fine with that. And you also like me with all sorts of things, for example that we contribute to polarization because we do support certain things in the cabinet. I am concerned with the way in which you throw all these insults into the Chamber, towards the cabinet and towards a number of parties. Does that help to have a good debate here?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u310	I wonder what part was offensive then. That's what I'm really wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u311	The word "twin" has fallen. In my opinion, there is only one division that is really relevant, namely the division between whether you are healthy and whether you are sick and in hospital or on ice. I believe that the approach of all of us is at least, I hope, to prevent this division, so that people do not get sick, should not be in the hospital and not end up in the ic. Then there is absolutely no need for action. This virus is here, and it's not gonna pass. I'd like to mention a few facts. There was a technical briefing this morning. I think you missed it. And then you say that entering a pass and all that does not work. Well, it does work. I see here on the chart: at the first announcement of the coronapas there is a peak up, so more vaccinations, and at the official announcement of the coronapas there is a next peak up, so again more vaccinations, and at the introduction of the coronapas it goes up again. Mr Kuzu is thus acting against helping to prevent the division of "sick" versus "not sick." I would like to ask Mr Kuzu instead to help people who have trouble with the Dutch language or whatever the reason is. They too do not want their father or mother to get sick better, so that we avoid this division of'sick' versus 'not sick'. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u312	In addition to the division between "sick" and "not sick," I also see a division between people who have been vaccinated and people who have not been vaccinated. That is a very important subject for me too. At the moment is controlled on the instrument of the coronapas. We see that 44% of the people who tested positive have been vaccinated. We see that about one in four people currently on the ic have been vaccinated. In doing so, I would like to point out that further steering on the coronapas will not ensure that this division in society between 'vaccined' and 'not vaccinated', but also the division between'sick' and 'not sick', will be remedied. I hope Mrs Gündoğan can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u313	You are through your interruptions, Mrs. Gündoğan. No, I've been tough on the others, too. I thank Mr Kuzu. I now give the floor to Mrs... No, Mrs. Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u314	That's quite a stand, Mr. Chairman, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u315	Mr Kuzu is also talking about his own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u316	But she shouldn't!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u317	No, Mrs Gündoğan, I do think that you are invoking it now, and I do not like it either. That's what I wanted to say. I am going to stop this and give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group. Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I call Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. COVID-19 doesn't just make people sick. Because I see other things happening too. Where solidarity dominated at the beginning of the corona pandemic, there is now a division in society. Two camps are directly opposed: those of the vaccinees and those of the unvaccinated. That's what I'm really worried about. The public debate here and in the media as well as the dialogue in the living rooms and in the café quickly degenerate into quarrels and splits. That's what we just saw here. People in our country have always had a free choice when it came to vaccination. There are also those who reject the principle in principle in the National vaccination programme. Even if I don't understand that personally, I still respect the choice of those people. Now it is true that corona is an extremely contagious disease and that I, too, am aiming for the highest possible vaccination rate. Fortunately, vaccination readiness is high in our country, about 88%. 7% to 10% does not want to be vaccinated. This means: low-hanging fruit from about 3% to 5%. Also of the group that is still in doubt, there are really still people to tempt to take the shot. That's good, and we have to bet on it. But let's stop calling each other for everything that's beautiful and ugly or, worse still, threatening each other with violence when the other has changed his mind. Let's take care of our own health and that of another. This means first of all that we must comply with the basic measures, whether you have been vaccinated or not. Experts have also said this morning that the basic measures are above all else. If we maintain them all, we'll come a whole end. Everything falls or stands with our own behavior, but we can be helped a little as in the beginning. Then you had all kinds of billboards with basic measures and they were called in stores. Supermarkets gave clues. There are many more such examples. I hope that the Minister agrees with me that we may be able to make a little more effort on this. My question to the Minister is whether he could stimulate that kind of communication again. Many thousands of people are waiting for a life-saving, important operation that is now being postponed, because the ic capacity is not sufficient, because it is not sufficiently controlled to reduce the number of infections. In nursing homes, the number of infections is increasing. Vulnerable people and elderly people living at home have been unable to participate in society for more than a year and a half. For the summer vacation, I asked the Minister if there were any plans for the fall. The answer was a definite yes. What I don't understand then is why the cabinet is only now intervening. As it turned out this morning, the figures have a great predictive value. Looks like we don't have any learning ability. Can the Minister outline the decision-making process? Can he explain to me why measures are only now being taken? Mr. Chairman. Then my next point, the third shot. I have already drawn attention to this before the summer, as have some of my colleagues. The Health Council indicates that certain groups should receive a third shot in terms of age and health. Now it appears that logistics is not anticipated, because in December the third prick will only begin. If we have had the groups mentioned, we will be months away again, and I think that is far too late. Then I have another question about the group that cannot come to the vaccination site itself, including mostly elderly people. Earlier the minister said that home vaccination.nl could easily handle this group and that there was no need to use the offer of, for example, a few thousand medical assistants to help. However, this does not appear to be the case. How and when are we going to provide these people logistics with a third shot? Some haven't even had a second shot. Mr. Chairman. A lot has already been said. I will not repeat that here, so finally: there were heartwarming initiatives for young and old to help and support each other in the early months of the corona pandemic. These initiatives have largely disappeared. For me, it goes without saying that we must all stick to these basic measures, but also to the decisions on further measures that are being taken here. After all, they are taken democratically. But let us also continue to look at all those people, young and old, who are lonely because of these basic measures and end up in social isolation. A small gesture like a ticket or a call or a walk-by for a chat or a message, really makes the difference. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u319	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Uncivilized. That's the disastrous corona policy of this missionary cabinet. Ever since I entered this house, I have stressed in every Corona debate that it is a fatal mistake to choose to steer on ic capacity rather than on preventing infections and protecting people. Nevertheless, this cabinet stubbornly held on to an exorbitant policy and the unscientific delusion of group immunity through infections. It turned out to be fatal. The outgoing Prime Minister may again take off, but I said it then and repeat it now: the chosen policy is responsible for thousands of deaths and many more long-term ill people. It was all unnecessary. There were other ways to go. But the leaders here next to me have made the conscious choice not to comply with their constitutional duty to protect public health, with deadly consequences. Mr. Chairman. I hope they get hit by that verdict. I hope they'll let it work on their own for a while. For those who are truly affected are left behind with indescribable pain as a result of conscious policies. The agony of so many people on the ic's, their loved ones and their next of kin who still look at that empty chair at the dining table: I will never forgive this cabinet. There is more, but that is for another debate. This time it's not just this boude MP of BET1 with such tough talk I quote the outgoing Prime Minister. KPMG shows what I've been indicating all this time. A reconstruction of Nieuwsuur then put the deadly choices that were made in a row. I noticed today that no one named it. During my very first Corona debate on 15 April this year, I addressed the previous Chamber. They let the cabinet go through the inexplicable choices that were made. At the time, I asked the Chamber to break with that and to change course. Unfortunately. On 14 July, almost in despair, I tabled an extremely carefully drafted motion. It asked to break with the strategy that we could all see cost human lives and harmed the economy. It was not a tough talk; it was and is still the immense painful truth. Then I couldn't count on the support of any party in this house. That too was a choice. In this way, as a Chamber, we have abandoned victims, long-term sick people, their relatives and the care staff. During the renowned tirade of the outgoing Prime Minister, in which he uttered the word 'uncivilized', he also accused me of failing all the people in the care and of blaming him for the at least 30,000 deaths that this country has to regret. That is not only the definition of hypocrisy, but also of gas lighting. It is a game of the outgoing Prime Minister not to have to blame himself. Because what has really failed care is continuing to pursue this policy. That's why we're all surprised again about another wave. Over and over again, new waves of ic's have been overcrowded for almost two years, leading to a care infarction. Something must therefore be done, such as the WTO directives, stop steering on ic capacity and continue to invest in vaccination without allowing a division in society. And we need to realise that additional measures are and remain necessary. We can't get lost lives back with that. Although we are not helping patients with long covid, although we have not been able to give people back the two years they have been locked up because they belong to a risk group, I say: "Dear Chamber, I sincerely hope that everyone today is prepared to reject the chosen policy.' Because if we had chosen a different course, in which we would have done everything we could to prevent infections and protect civilians, we could have saved lives. Then we could have avoided complete polarisation and bizarre negotiations, such as here today on secondary measures such as QR codes and the like. Then we wouldn't have a discussion about whose fault is yet another wave. Because there's only a handful of guilty people. They're over there, in box-K. I therefore call on everyone to show decisiveness and colour this time, to deal with deadly policies this time and to put the protection of people at the centre, to draw consequences on policies that have caused unnecessary deaths. I call on everyone to take responsibility. It is time to choose to prevent even more infections, long-term sick and dead. Mr President, it is our duty, for hell's sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u321	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u322	Mr. Chairman. The fearless ones seem to be winning the heroes, the collectivists of the freedom fighters. Every time you think it can't get any worse, Minister De Jonge manages to make hell even hotter. After his 180-degree turn over non-working mouth caps, he deceived the Dutch youngsters with his slogan "Dances with Janssen." I thought the border had been reached with the coronapas, which allowed unvaccinated, tested, healthy people to suddenly be labeled dangerous by this minister, while vaccinated infectious people could infect other people to their heart's content. It can't be any more illogical. The exclusion of unvaccinated patients was trivialised with the argument that vaccinees are less contagious. But this has been refuted in The Lancet of 28 October, and I quote: "Vaccinated people will heal faster from covid if they have been infected, but the amount of virus they carry with them at the top of infection is just as great as it is for unvaccinated people." Away argument, then. Can the Minister confirm this? Either you have vaccinees also tested for a green check mark, or you eliminate this entire sketch. Get rid of the QR code and test everyone. That is also undesirable and we do not want to, but it would make more sense. Then Minister De Jonge refused to inform the Chamber correctly about the percentage of vaccinees in hospitals. In the meantime, we have received the figures, but it would have prevented so much mistrust if this had happened right away. The absolute low point is the forthcoming legislative change to deny healthy, unvaccinated people access to their work, education, gyms and museums. The dehumanisation of unvaccinated people is a fact. Corona discrimination is getting worse and worse. There doesn't seem to be any moral brakes on this cabinet anymore. The Constitution is being violated and our freedom is becoming increasingly restricted. The solution is so simple. Take care of yourself when you're so afraid of corona. Create more Ice Beds. I am really surprised that my motion to bring the number of Ice Beds to the European average was rejected yesterday. How is it possible that the VVD, the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union do not even want to solve this problem? Encourage people to live healthyly. And let's stop testing. If we all stop participating, it's over. Boycott any organization that does cooperate on this medical apartheid. My motions for a parliamentary inquiry are always rejected. That is why I will report discrimination against this cabinet. It is incomprehensible that a majority of the Chamber supports this discrimination. I will therefore retable a motion of censure against the entire cabinet, in the interests of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u323	There's a question from Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u324	I'm gonna borrow for this one. This requires a new twist even from my creative mind: declaration of discrimination by the cabinet because a majority of the House of Representatives decides not to support your motion. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u325	No, it's just a report of discrimination against a particular group in this society. Everyone is always very opposed to that, but now we're talking about something other than what we normally act against. We are talking about a group that has not been vaccinated. It's being discriminated against now. We'll report it. And by the way: I am indeed surprised that Mrs Kuik is also involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u326	I am pleased with Mrs Kuik's question, because I honestly did not understand it either. Is it a criminal offense? That's what I'm asking on behalf of the Chamber, so we know what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u327	The rules now in place are discriminatory. You can report an act or an expression. The actions and expressions of this cabinet are discriminatory and I declare them. Maybe I should have split that sentence in two. I am surprised that most of the people in this House of Representatives have gone along with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u328	Thank you for this explanation. Everyone in this country is free to report it. But at the same time, I'm a little surprised that we all want to be part of a democracy. That's what we let ourselves pay for every month, every year grif. But that, at the moment it gets a little complicated and we don't get our way, we go to the police to report that we didn't get our way in parliament. That's kind of the reverse world, isn't it? I'm tired of that. Here's the democratic house. We decide with each other. You were chosen, I was elected, whether you like it or not. Together, we determine what we find in a majority. If your motions are rejected or you don't get what you want, then you have to fight it here instead of harassing police officers with a U-turn construction. They're already busy enough with all kinds of protesters, threats from hospital staff and so on. What the hell are we doing in this world? It's almost a rhetorical question, Mr President, but I'm surprised at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u329	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u330	It is indeed my duty as a representative of the people to do what I can to counter this. And I'll use every means for that, including a report. I think it's very good for a judge to look into this. It happens all the time. It's not unique. We're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u331	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u332	Mr. Chairman. You must be very desperate if you're asking me to tell you something light in a corona debate. I have a different picture of myself anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u333	It was a wink.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u334	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. The old strategy to fight corona has failed. If 60% of the population were vaccinated, we would be out of this crisis, we thought a year and a half ago. It has been the government's goal for a long time and on 1 November we would have had some sort of liberation day. The vaccination rate has been reached, and how, but the infections are rising and the intakes are rising. Failure is, however, only failure if you do not learn from your failure. There should have been preparation, a plan should have been put in place, and the Court has also asked for it on the basis of increasing infections, based on prevalence. Then we would have intervened two weeks ago, earlier. If you intervene earlier, you will have to intervene less long and less hard. The corona access card that this government is now reaching for is actually there for a low prevalence, so if not too many people are infected. But what does it turn out to be? A lot of people who have been vaccinated are infected anyway. That is what we think, therefore, that we give people vaccinated with the corona pass the impression that they are no longer contagious. We will have to come out of this together as vaccinees and unvaccinated. Whoever thinks he can put it with one group is completely wrong. I asked Parliament questions to have the scientific basis of the corona admission certificate, especially with the slightly decreasing effectiveness over the time of the vaccines. I await the answers with great regret, especially because there is a horror scenario outlined of what the corona admission ticket can all be used for. Mr. Chairman. Now a number of steps need to be taken. The RIVM says it, the government says it, but it just doesn't happen: there just needs to be a very active government campaign about basic measures on radio and TV, with all the 800 informers out there. Stay home with complaints. Keep a measure of distance. They are important, and they are far less significant than the limitation of civil rights that the cabinet seizes. I'd like to have a plan with ventilation guidelines, CO meters, QR codes that go red once you've been tested and found positive. The Chamber has requested one-and-a-half-metre events with an approved motion. And there needs to be a much better source and contact investigation. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask a few brief closing questions. Firstly, I would like to have the OVV report. All the other countries have looked at the situation mid-term. We haven't heard from the OVV in a year and a half. I want a scientific basis for the corona pass. I would like to know very precisely why 80/20 was mentioned when it is 55/45. That makes a huge difference. There are more people who have been vaccinated in hospitals, but the odds are still much lower. And are we now following the EU countries? Then I would like to know what the government is saying about who is currently sending at ic-capacity and who is using the QR-code on a football field for amateurs. Later I will come back to Nieuwsuur, because I would like to have a comprehensive response to that. Time is too short for that now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u335	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting until 8 p.m. Then we start with the first term on the cabinet side.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u336	The next item is the continuation of the debate on developments concerning the coronavirus, the first term on the cabinet side. I'd like to ask the MPs to take their seats again. Mrs. Chicken and Mrs. Bikker, let's get started. I have agreed with Members of Parliament that there may be four questions and/or comments, but on the other hand I have asked the Cabinet to answer the questions as well and as concretely as possible. Everyone has said yes to that. First of all, I will give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll get right to the answer. I will try, above all, to answer a number of questions about the measures and the weighing moment. Then the Minister of VWS will answer the remaining questions and the Minister of Justice will answer the questions on enforcement. There's a lot to ask for. I'll go straight to the contents. The first thing I come up with is homework advice. Why not the old homework advice? Actually, that's very simple. That's because we've noticed that there are employers asking people to come to the office completely. That's not the point. That wasn't the advice either. Of course, the underlying message remains: work at home if possible. But we have translated that into: work at least half the time at home. We believe that this is going to help the people who are now confused about the situation. Then I get to the sports and outdoor terraces.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u338	The point is that research shows that already people who can work at home already do that for 56% of the hours they work. When you say that they have to work half their hours at home, then the advice that is now valid is not really worth that much, because it is not going to change very much. If there is one measure that we can take relatively easily and which, according to the OMT, also has a major effect on reducing the number of infections, then I simply don't understand what the problem is to focus more on working at home, so that it becomes a real task: just do it as long as it is necessary and just work at home until we get back to an acceptable number of infections and fewer hospitalisations. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u339	That's exactly what we're doing. We just want more work to be done at home. We only notice that there are quite a few employers who want people to have them at the office completely. That is why our communication experts say: if you want people to work more at home than they do now, then you have to tighten up the standard and say that you have to work at home at least half the time. That is exactly what we are doing to achieve the objective that Mr Hijink is also asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u340	But that is not true, because 56% of the hours are already working at home. That would be 50%. So that doesn't make any sense, if that's the advice on homework. So we say, "Make that advice work at home as much as possible." That's not a big deal for most people. Nor is it as controversial as other measures we are discussing tonight. I just don't see the objection. Why choose half the working time and not "as much of your working time as possible at home," provided that this can of course be done in the light of the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u341	The lesson that we learned from the crisis is that we also need to sail a little on the communication experts. They tell us: if you want to achieve the goal that we both want to achieve, both Mr Hijink and the cabinet, namely that more people work at home, then you have to set the standard more clearly. It is also not "work half the time at home" but "work at least half the time at home." This gives the group of people who are now obliged by the employer to always come to the office additional resources. That's why we're doing this. Then sports and outdoor terraces. The contagion rates show that there is a significant increase in the epidemic. It may be assumed that the burden of care is increasing. We have taken over the whole OMT advice, which also applies to the outdoor terraces and sport. I got questions about that, too. You need to make as few exceptions as possible to the advice and to what you find. In this case, this is really a measure, which is to introduce the CTB in amateur sport. In order to make this measure as clear as possible and thereby to promote compliance, control and enforcement, it has been said: make it as simple as possible, by introducing a CTB requirement for everyone from 18 years of age onwards. This applies to everyone: spectators and athletes. For example, would you say that it only applies to indoors or outdoors, a sports park should be looked at to see if someone comes as a athlete or as a visitor, because then you need a CTB from 18 years. You come for the cafeteria, you need a CTB already. If you come in front of the terrace, the CTB is required from November 6th. Then you can still get some clarity about the changing rooms. Anyway, that's gonna be a mess, so our advice is to really stick to the CTB for the entire sports venue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u342	Then I would like to hear the details of the outdoor terraces later, because we excluded them last time. With regard to sport, I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to page 9 of his own letter. It says "sports practice, especially where indoor sports are concerned." There's no mention of outdoor sports. I'm swamped with apps and e-mails about outdoor sports, because that affects a lot of people. It's really outside. This morning, in the technical briefing, Mr Van Dissel said, if I recall correctly, that the OMT indicated that outdoor sports is not their first major area of concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u343	No. But visitors outside and that makes it almost impossible. The OMT says "visit inside and outside is not allowed and for that you need a CTB" and "sport inside but not sports outside per se." We have looked at how this is still a bit to communicate and maintain. Our conclusion is that you have to do that for the entire sports accommodation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u344	I think there are practical solutions for both outside and inside. A lot of sports associations are doing a take-out function to keep it out of the tickets. And then you would be outside and the visitors, so also the parents who come to watch, and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u345	So you're gonna rule out the parents, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u346	No, as long as it's outside, the parents and the sportsmen should be there without a ticket.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u347	Then you fall under the OMT advice, because the OMT advice says "visitors all and athletes inside."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u348	Mrs Kuik and then Mr Van Haga, also on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u349	That's how I read the OMT advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u350	My profession is meddling.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u351	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u352	I don't think this is a proper representation. You have indoor sports, but this is a request about outdoor sports. Today, we asked Mr Bruls, chairman of the Security Council, whether he considered it feasible, necessary and sensible for outdoor sports. His answer to that was no. We asked Mr Van Dissel what he meant in particular. He says, "We want inner locations, we want logic." So that's not so much on the outside sites. I've heard almost all the input from all the participants. Almost all of them said toss that off.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u353	But what are we gonna throw off?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u354	My question is very simple. Having heard that consideration, is it not wise for the cabinet to say: we withdraw it in order to prevent someone from having to file a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u355	Mrs. Chicken, what exactly is going on in your image? Tell me, because I don't have it sharp. Is it true that visitors outside have to show the CTB?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u356	I'm gonna stop by the jeu-des-boules court, at the trimming track or at a soccer game, or what else can you do outside?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u357	Tennis.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u358	Rugby. My favorite sport. Then I'll get there and I'll be out in the air. Not in the sports canteen, but in the outdoors. It doesn't matter if I'm a visitor or an athlete. For some, a visit is more logical than the exercise itself, including yours truly. As a visitor or athlete, I don't have to show you the corona pass. That is because enforcement is complicated, because we have to make volunteers responsible and because it is outdoors. It is a sum of Van Dissel's response, the response of the Chairman of the Security Council, not the least person in this whole event, a request from the CDA to make a commitment to this and the input of all the applicants. I would like to say that let us save ourselves a little bit of complexity and simply delete this measure, because we agree on that collectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u359	Sorry. Listen, we'll do it together. If that's the wish of the majority... but you're really falling under the OMT recommendation. The OMT opinion says: sports mainly indoors. That's where I get it: leave out the outdoors. You could still do that. I think it's gonna be very messy, but if the Chamber thinks otherwise, I don't want to be the whiny one. But the OMT also mentions the audience at amateur competitions, both indoors and outdoors. If you don't make an audience subject to CTB outside of amateur competitions, you fall under OMT advice. We've got a high rate of contagion, so I'd say do exactly what the OMT's asking. Maybe we'll meet halfway. Leave the sport outside without CTB, sport inside with CTB, but all visitors do with CTB. If they're going into the cafeteria, they're gonna have to show us the CTB. Otherwise, you're really gonna fall under OMT advice. If that's what the majority of the Chamber wants, I'm not gonna be difficult, but I'm getting more and more worried about next Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u360	Here goes my third and almost final interruption, so I'll need help from the others later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u361	I'm going to intercede with the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u362	We have had a discussion on this very point. I'm a witness because I happened to be president. Van Dissel was questioned at this point by a number of people. Someone explicitly asked what he actually meant by the text "in particular." I think it was Mrs Van den Berg, but maybe it was someone else, I don't remember. Van Dissel said: we want the inner locations in particular, and that is why we wrote very explicitly 'especially', because it was of the utmost importance. We understand that it makes a lot of sense to equalize everything in proportion, but precisely because Van Dissel went into this very strongly, precisely because Bruls said that he considers it difficult to enforce and because of the position where you bring in extra volunteers, the difference between outside and inside,...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u363	I'm gonna listen and talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u364	... and considering that almost all Members of Parliament have mentioned this...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u365	I will give the Prime Minister the opportunity to listen to his officials and then I will give him the floor again. Do you need a little more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u366	No. The team is so on top of each other! Once again, I am going to intercede with the President that Mrs Kuik has not lost all of her interruptions, although I have nothing else to do with it. 'Cause she's trying to help here. As we interpret the OMT opinion, one could say that the cabinet goes beyond the OMT advice by including sportsmen and women outside. You could say leave the athletes out. Now it is complicated for enforcement to separate sportsmen and the public. That's what Grapperhaus says: I can't. If the Chamber wants to rule out sports outside, then we should also rule out public outside. We read the OMT advice in such a way that you fall under the OMT advice. Mrs. Kuik presided over the meeting, but I didn't follow the whole hearing. Of course, I always follow what Van Dissel does permanently, but I did not follow that hearing from a to z. If she says he liked it best to exclude the audience outside... I'm going to chew on it in the course of the first term and I'll come back to it at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u367	This is a very hopeful start I must say. It seems that at least we can stay outdoors and go outside to the sports field. I have often asked the Prime Minister in this kind of debate whether the collateral damage has been included, the side effects. Turns out that wasn't the case with the lockdown. Not by a foot and a half. Not at the hospitality lockdown. Not curfew. We had a nice little debate about click-and-collect. It was never calculated. So now I'm wondering: has there been a calculation made, or a trade-off, of that QR code on the terraces, in the outdoors anyway? Does that say anything on paper? Has it been looked at: it is outdoors, we expect to be able to prevent so many infections with it, the collateral damage is this and this for the catering industry, for example, and that is a lot of difference as far as the Prime Minister is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u368	We've had that discussion before. It is not possible for one such measure to take a very specific look at exactly what it is doing in the atmosphere of contamination. The OMT is very clear about this. What we do, in addition to mouth caps and in addition to the basic rules with a number of additions, is also extend the CTB. That was also a question from Mrs Van den Berg: what about the whole issue of outdoor terraces? We really think it's wise to follow the OMT here. Especially now, if we are to weaken sports, I would really like to maintain it, otherwise the package will really be too light. What does that have to do with it? We're going to winter. Maybe they're still out there, underneath the patio heaters that some parties hate. But people will go in more often when it gets too cold. People have to go in for the bathroom every now and then anyway. Those terraces themselves of course also get less and less the character of a terrace, because they offer more and more protection against wind and rain. So we really think it would be wise, especially for the coming months, to extend the CTB to what is still called terraces. In my observation it is also difficult in many cases in terms of atmosphere and effect to determine exactly what is inside or outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u369	That's not an answer to my question. I understand that the Prime Minister wants it and that it is in line with the OMT opinion, but I ask if it is calculated. Is that collateral damage just not in the picture again? The same applies to the QR code at the gyms. What is the net result of introducing the QR pass? You have fewer people who are exercising, so less healthy people. Surely there has to be an estimate of what the negative effects of this on fewer infections are? Were those calculations made? Has an assessment been made? That's what I'd like to know. And when they're made, of course, I'd like to have them, too. The previous times I would remind you that all this has not been done. I find that strange, because this collateral damage also determines the effectiveness of the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u370	Of course, we always look through the so-called cross-eyed tests, with all the advice we have on this matter from planning agencies and experts. We also look at what we do in terms of the wider social impact on the economy and social psychological well-being. All measures, of course, have their effects. This package is very limited. But if, for example, you move to further restrictions of contact, this will, of course, also have a greater impact on the economy. If you were to do more in education, or in care for the elderly, such measures would, of course, have a much greater effect, socio-psychologically and very often economically. That's limited here. You are also constantly being sent all these documents about the broader societal test that is being done. However, we have often had this discussion, so that we can show very specifically what the contribution to the R is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u371	Those are all words I don't understand. "Transparent tests" and "a broad societal test." So it seems that calculations have been made. Well, then I'd like it. I'd really like to have it tonight, because if they're just there, those translucent keys, I'd like to look at them. And if there aren't, then I just conclude that once again there hasn't been a look at the collateral damage, that it's just a little more muddy and continue on that path. In addition, it is nice to make it a little clearer to enter the QR-code everywhere, but that happens without putting the collateral damage against the returns. And sometimes they're very small. At that time there were hardly any contaminations to trace to the catering industry, but still the catering industry closed. The whole side damage wasn't there. With that click-and-collect, it was just pulled out of control by an official. So if those translucent keys are there, I'd like to get them, and then maybe we can figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u372	The Chamber gets all the information, but we don't have precise calculations per measure. There's no way to fix them. Then I come to the question of what we are doing next week, on 12 November, in that weighing moment, for that ugly jargon, I do not have a better term. Then we actually have two sources of information. The first source is that we know more precisely how it works in hospitals. Above all, we know more precisely whether the rise is such that we say: it is still significant, but it is not at the top of the margins of uncertainty. We see it flattening a bit, then we see that rise still too intense. You have that piece of information, plus that we know better what will ultimately be the effect of the various basic measures and to what extent they will lead, for example, to fewer transport movements, and we have further research of the Behaviour Unit of the RIVM. On this basis, on 12 November, we will review the whole situation and see what we can do. As you know, we intend, in particular, to look at the question of whether or not legislation should be further developed and whether and how to extend the CTB to non-essential economic sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u373	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u374	At the heart of the debate is that we are now being messed up by this cabinet even further into that QR society. We were already sitting, at least a large part of the Chamber, including my group, against our will, with that corona evidence and the cabinet is now going to expand it even further. The cabinet will again restrict the freedoms for the unvaccinated or for those who do not want to be tested three times a week. Many people in the Netherlands can't do a lot until work. The Prime Minister always shields with the OMT, but I still want to make some noises from the medical field. So those aren't sounds from the OMT, but still. Four doctors from the emergency services, Bilbija, Sjaardema, de Lange and Van Asten, wrote in an open letter to you, and they also wanted to have a conversation with you that in the last twenty months the cabinet has not ensured that more nurses came. They consider the new measures to be completely inefficient and unscientific, they consider that they lead to a division and they consider the designation of unvaccinated as the cause of the failure of the care system to be unfair. Yesterday Dr. Levi was on television and he said: why wasn't there a plan in which the cabinet said as a country that it wanted to have one and a half times as many ICU beds? There are a lot of doctors, and not just politicians, who think that with these new measures you are going to ruin half the Netherlands, or a large part of it, even more that QR company. This could have been avoided in part by earlier and more investment in care, particularly in the training of nurses. Why not a mea culpa about that? Why don't you say: I'm also making mistakes in my life and one mistake I made as Mark Rutte during the years I've been Prime Minister, is that I haven't been enough to address the shortage of healthcare capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u375	Since I became Prime Minister, healthcare spending has increased from 68 billion to 87 billion between 2012 and 2020. The budget for hospital care increased from 20 billion to 26 billion in that period. The image that has been cut is really not true. In addition, we have recently looked at what you can do quickly in intensive cares. This has been the subject of a very far-reaching plan, with a budget of 0.5 billion. It looks at what you can do to train people for extra hands in care. And there's the grant scheme for corona beans. If you're going to look at the effects, you'll see that there are. It is now also possible, if there is no other way, to increase the number of ic-beds. However, as has already been said in the first term of the Chamber, you can put the beds down, but you must also have the staff. That's always the bottleneck. Besides, it takes a long time for you to train people for intensive care. The wish we have often discussed here is that no beds should be empty if it is not necessary, but that we should be able to scale the number of beds quickly. That plan is being worked on. There are first results of this, but it is not of course that you can achieve that completely in such a short time. This is also the input of Mr Wilders, namely that you simply need to expand care, which cannot be done so quickly, and that you need to ensure that people comply with the basic measures, not wisely, because it takes too many risks in the current increasing numbers of infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u376	I can't help but say it's smooth talk. Smooth talk that completely ignores reality. This cabinet, this Prime Minister, is able to spend hundreds of billions more on asylum and mass immigration in the last ten years that he has been Prime Minister and he is talking about a few hundred million extra spent on the ICIs in recent years. That's outrageous. Anyone who understands the concern says that we in the Netherlands... We are also dangling at the bottom of all comparison lists for ic-capacity. You just can't get away with saying to me now: yes, none of that can happen in the short term. You had ten years ago, you had eight years ago, you had five years ago, you had two years ago, when the crisis started about, you had to invest acutely extra in healthcare and in nursing staff. And you didn't. So don't go reading texts from civil servants now. You didn't do that and because of that, and because you're panicked by the full-scale hospitals, we're now being messed up in a QR society. You are now going to make us pay the price for your lack of care. You must have the guts to respond to that at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u377	That's bullshit. Over the past few years, tens of billions more have gone to care. Mr Wilders here gives the impression that we have cut back on care. That's just not true. In fact, there's so much money going there that you have to ask yourself how we're going to control healthcare spending over the next few years. If you are not careful, they express other expenses, such as education and safety, eventually further the nest. So it's really not true that there hasn't been enough money to go to care. A lot of extra money went to the care department. That is even so much extra, that you really have to keep an eye on whether that can continue in the coming years at that rate. That's how serious it is. So that claim is simply not true. In addition, very specific with regard to the issue of intensive care. Since October 2020, work has been very focused on what you can do to further expand acute care, but you are currently dealing with a number of things that come together. Apparently, the number of covid patients is now structurally at a higher level. You can see that now. Delayed care due to the situation last year and early this year needs to be overtaken. The care staff themselves, of course, have been under pressure for a long time. Training good ic staff also takes time. So you don't just solve the problem, in a short time, completely. That's just the facts. Mr Wilders is really turning people's minds when he says: that could have been arranged by the cabinet since the outbreak of the corona crisis. That's just not true. You can't do that so fast. What is also not true is that we have been cutting back on healthcare in recent years. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u378	I am going to help Mr Wilders because we only have a limited number of interruptions. In my view, Mr Wilders' question is about the past: shouldn't we have invested in ic capacity earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u379	So we've put tens of billions more into care, including acute care. At the ICUs, we had plenty of beds until the corona crisis broke out. No one has ever argued in favour of setting up more ic-beds than are needed on average. The discussion that we are having today, thanks to Mr Wilders' contribution, is: how can you scale up the ic occupation more flexibly if you are dealing more structurally with pandemics that temporarily rely on ic capacity? I think it is very unwise to permanently have a much larger number of ic-beds than is necessary. That's gonna cost a lot of money, and those beds are gonna be empty. What you do want is a system in which you can quickly scale the number of ic-beds. We're already doing some of that. The 500 million has been earmarked for this purpose. We will continue to do so in the years to come. But again, that also calls for the training of staff and that also calls for you to realize that there is a lot of delayed care and that the care staff themselves have been under pressure for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u380	Politics is a matter of priorities. Now the Prime Minister says again: we have spent 500 million extra on the ic's. This year alone, you are spending 6 billion extra on asylum seekers. That's 12 times what you call the ICUs. So that's not in proportion. If you really choose, you will not choose the 6 billion this year for asylum seekers, but you will choose to give that substantial amount to hospitals and nursing staff. It's true what I said. Under the responsibility of this Prime Minister, hospitals have been closed down in recent years. Emergency units have been closed. Nursing staff have been scaled down, both ICU nurses and other nurses. Before others temporarily joined, people left first. That's what you've done. So don't talk to me like it didn't happen, because it did. You give priority to asylum and not to hospitals. You're freaking out right now, so now you're coming up with all these weird proposals. You act as if there are infections on the football clubs and in the swimming pools. You come now with the false security of those corona tickets, which everyone knows you can still get sick and infect other people if you have them. Meanwhile, the big problem isn't there. The major problem lies in the investment in care and in the basis of the contaminations in the home situation. Three of the four infections take place in the home situation. I had it searched when I was standing there and you said that you were talking about ventilation. In the press conference yesterday, you said one sentence about ventilation. One sentence! I would ask you to take this point more seriously. You promised me here in the Chamber once that you would pay more attention to it in the press conference. I can assure you that where three of the four infections take place at home, there is the key to reducing the infections and hospitalizations. That's not what you do with the QR pass, it's where the infections take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u381	I am speaking separately about ventilation, but about Mr Wilders' speech: in recent years alone, 6 billion more have gone to hospitals. That half a billion will be added to that to make it easier for us to further facilitate that up-and-coming plan. We also do this because of corona and because of what that teaches us about possibly having to deal with the ability you want in hospitals to scale up quickly in epidemics. But that also requires the training of people. What Mr Wilders is doing here is giving the impression to the Netherlands that if you do that even faster... Well, then he'll have to show us where we can get more I.C. nurses so soon. It just can't be. You have to train it, and it takes time. He knows that, too. He wants to give the impression that the QR code is not needed in the Netherlands, because you have two alternatives: better ventilation plus faster training of ic staff. And I can't. That's not a question of money, because it just takes time. Throughout Europe, in Germany, in France and in Italy, these QR codes are used. Those countries aren't all crazy. They do so, because that way, without having to take all kinds of heavy measures like closing down the catering industry or closing down other sectors, you are able to control the number of infections as much as possible. That is why we want to extend the QR codes and that corona pass. That's wise policy. Of course we do so in conjunction with the further expansion of hospital care. But again, that really takes time. We can't do that any faster than we do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u382	It's crazy to freak out. The Prime Minister's not going into my point again. Again he says: it is impossible to train the nurses in such a short time. But my point is correct, in my term and in all my interruptions, that you should have started ten years ago. You should have started that five years ago. What you have done in those ten years is spend hundreds of billions on asylum seekers and on mass immigration. You did. Giving it out of your wallet! And to Europe and to development aid for Africa! Mark Rutte sprinkled money for the whole world, but when it came to care, he didn't. You say "more money went to health care," but why didn't you invest what those doctors I mentioned five years ago in additional care workers? Why didn't you say two years ago when the crisis started with corona, that we are now going to make an acute programme, and money is not a problem, to train as many people as possible? You didn't. You left that behind! That's why we're in trouble right now. At Mark Rutte van de VVD, asylum goes for care and that is bad for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u383	One more time for those who listen. Over the past few years, our tax money and our premium money have brought tens of billions of euros to health care, 6 billion since 2012 alone to hospitals and therefore to acute care. On top of that, we have allocated half a billion extra to make sure that you can scale up the ic capacity faster when there is an epidemic. It takes time to train people. That is what all of Europe has to do with it, and that is what the whole world has to do with it. Mr Wilders wants to look at the Netherlands here by saying that you can solve the problem by ventilating more and by somehow creating extra ic nurses out of nowhere. That's what he wants to do instead of asking for the corona ticket in more places than we've done so far. That that could be, is just not true. Mr Wilders knows that very well. That's just flat rhetoric. Mr. Chairman. Thanks to these interruptions, many questions have been answered. I'm going back to the question of... Let's see... No, I was working on what we're gonna do next week. I explained that. The next question I would like to answer is Mr Paternotte's question about what we will do if the measures are not sufficient. "Because we are dealing with a situation where a lot of people have been vaccinated." How do you prevent this from leading to measures that may be very sensitive to vaccinees and non-vaccines? Once again, we will of course follow the OMT opinion. We're gonna take a good look at that. The expectation at the moment is that with this package we can keep things as manageable as possible. On November 12th, we're going to see exactly what's going on with the developments on the ic's. This concerns people who are already infected, but which you are going to see how the curve develops, in combination with what is happening in our behavior. For example, do we really see a reduction in the number of movements? And what does RIVM's behavioral research reveal? We're all gonna get along. Whenever measures are needed, we will naturally weigh them well against our fundamental rights, proportionality and subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u384	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u385	In just over a week, we're going to test for ic-recordings. But someone who's gonna be on ICU is already infected. So the other measures we are taking now, whether you are in favour of them or not, do not affect the ic recordings now or in ten days' time. Those measures can't be effective for two weeks. So why should the government review its policy to see if anything has an effect within a week, while the measures can only be mathematically effective in two weeks' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u386	As I have just explained, we are looking at how it develops on the basis of people who are already ill for today. We see to what extent the rise follows an average, or stays at the top of the expectations, or worse. Based on that, we'll see if there's more to it. The second thing we are doing is looking at the measures that we are taking today, some of which are now going into behavior and which are partly starting from Saturday as regards mouth caps and the extension of corona tickets, in the spirit of people's behaviour. Because in combination with what happens in the intensive cares, the number of infections, that says what about how heavy you have to take those numbers. If you see a significant rise on Friday, but at the same time a significant change of behavior, then you weigh that differently than when you see that the rise remains too much at the top of expectations or worse, and at the same time you also see that the number of trips does not decrease.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u387	This shows that we should have thought about this two weeks ago. Anyway, here's what we're gonna do. Does the government also intend to start a public campaign tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, as Mr Wilders said, and simply make it clear: this is how you should ventilate; this is how you keep your distance; we assume that you will work at home if you feel somewhat ill and that you will be quarantined if you wait until you have been tested? Because compliance with the basic measures is low. But let me put it this way: there are advertisements for normal products that I see more often than advertisements about what behavior everyone should exhibit, vaccinated and not vaccinated, in this Chamber and beyond to come out together. There's really two teeth in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u388	With immediate effect, a public campaign will be launched for the main target groups. In addition, the security regions and municipalities are working very actively with civil society organisations on compliance with all measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u389	Can we hear a little more about these public campaigns? Because we've had public campaigns before that that haven't always gone well. Indeed, you need a campaign aimed at certain target groups. It could be about vaccination or anything. But I am talking about a public campaign for the whole of the Netherlands, because that is what the basic measures are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u390	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u391	So we hear radio commercials from now on, we see TV commercials and ads on certain social media, which you can choose yourself, about how we're going to ventilate, because we haven't had them at all yet, what are the basic measures, a call not to throw too big parties? We'll see them tomorrow? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u392	We are going to start an immediate public campaign. But also there we try to learn lessons from earlier public campaigns. I've talked about that a lot here. That means you look very closely at target groups. That means that Mr Omtzigt or Mark Rutte will not see everything, because we are just not in that corner. That's just the way it is. That's how it's done. Again, we are also working with all relevant organisations from the security regions to ensure that as many people as possible get the best of what is necessary to comply with the basic measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u393	Does that include ventilation? That is the question that Mr Wilders and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u394	Yeah, that includes ventilation. On ventilation, I have a very long answer, which I actually wanted to deal with separately, because Mr Wilders asked so much about it. I would therefore prefer to do this separately, because then I will also give Mr Wilders the full pound. Otherwise, I'd be wondering his question, and I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u395	The Prime Minister will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u396	I'd still like to talk about the corona tickets. I think the Prime Minister's block is over. I hear him say now, and I think that is quite a strange idea, that we are going to take draconian measures, in which the cabinet believes it is permissible to distinguish between people who have been vaccinated and people who have not been vaccinated, in order to'make a change in behaviour'. Earlier, I heard the Prime Minister say at press conferences: we need to relieve the burden on hospitals, we need to relieve the burden on care staff, we need to reduce the number of infections. But now he's saying, no, we have to bring about a change of behavior. My question is: how proportional does he consider the draconian measures he envisages to change his behaviour?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u397	I don't understand the question. The campaign focuses on the basic measures and thus on all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u398	I'll give you a chance to explain the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u399	Then I'm gonna repeat it. The Prime Minister has just said, not even about the public campaign, but about the measures being taken, that he is calling for a change of behaviour at the weighing moment on 12 November by using the measures formulated by the cabinet yesterday at the press conference. This is about the extension of the corona access pass, which is about reintroducing a mouth cap. Earlier he indicated: we want to reduce the number of infections, we want to relieve the hospitals. My question is: how proportional does he consider these draconian measures to be for a change in behaviour that he envisages on 12 November, so in a few days' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u400	That's a bit of a mix-up. The basic measures are, of course, immediate, as they were last night. That is an urgent advice to the Netherlands to make sure that we continue to defeat that corona virus. This is the main focus of the public campaign. In addition, we are taking measures with masks and corona tickets, as of next Saturday also in a formal sense. Hopefully that will also contribute to an effect, but it is not that you can measure it, because you cannot measure the number of infections based on what we are deciding today. What you can measure is how things stand with the number of movements, for example. Is there gonna be more people working at home? Is there less traffic on the road? What do you derive from RIVM's behavioral research, also broader about compliance with the basic measures? That communication focuses on the whole of the Netherlands. Of that package yesterday, one measure is aimed at the distinction between vaccinated and not vaccinated. This concerns the further extension of the corona access card. The other two measures are aimed at the whole of the Netherlands, namely the basic measures and the mouth cap.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u401	This is precisely the point that reminds me of previous discussions, debates that we have had on, for example, curfew. At that time, and also a number of other colleagues, I specifically told the Prime Minister: do not take such a draconian, disproportionate measure, the effect of which has not been proven. At that time, the Prime Minister, on the basis of the RIVM models, estimated that there would be 10% fewer infections, found that he had to implement this serious freedom-limiting measure. Now he says about the corona access pass: hopefully it will contribute. How can the Prime Minister maintain that this is a proportionate measure, an appropriate measure? This is a serious measure that distinguishes between people who have been vaccinated and those who have not been vaccinated, which the Prime Minister states: hopefully this will help to reduce the number of infections. How can he keep it up with what logic?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u402	Now it's really getting all mixed up. Whether the measures that take place on Saturday affect the number of infections, we will only see for a little longer, because it just takes a few weeks before you know who is infected and if that also leads to hospitalizations. We know that cycle. Basic measures such as having you tested for complaints, working as much as possible at home, all that sort of thing, you can of course measure. You can measure whether people change their behavior. We can't see next Friday alone. That was Mr Omtzigt's question. What effect does it have on the infections? It'll take more time. But we do want to build in another weighing moment next Friday, because we want to make sure that we really keep on sending out infections and so on to hospital admissions and the risks to care. You do this by looking on the one hand at how the situation develops in the ICUs compared to the number of people already infected, and how that relates to the projections, but also by watching how people's behaviour changes. So it is indeed a question of whether more work is being done at home and so on. So that's not about the effect of entering the CTB on a larger scale. You won't see that for a long time. That is the answer to the question: what will we see on 12 November? In the longer term, you will of course see the effects of the CTB. I think Hugo de Jonge will go into more detail on all the evidence surrounding the corona pass. But you can see that this is a measure that is being taken all over Europe, because it helps for many reasons to prevent draconian measures from being taken and allows society to remain open.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u403	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u404	Mr. Chairman. That was that question. Many questions have been answered during the interruptions. The basic measures are, in fact, at the heart of the policy. Those apply to everyone. I honestly do not notice that the CTB is so controversial in society. That's more like it in part of the Chamber. I thought it would really be accepted in society to ask people who have been vaccinated to show that. And if you haven't been vaccinated, you can still get a green check mark by getting tested. I don't have the impression that that's the kind of social reaction that's causing such intense reactions. Anyway, parts of the Chamber think differently, so we may not entirely agree on that. Then there is the question of regional measures. Hugo de Jonge may say something about what might happen on 12 November when it comes to the possible extension of the CTB to the non-essential retail sector. At that point you could also look at it, but we should also talk more about it in the Cabinet and with you as a Chamber if you could apply such a measure locally. So that's what we're going to look into at that moment. I'm not talking about the OVV's mid-term report, so I think the Chamber should check that out with the OVV itself. Ventilation is also part of the current public campaign. I very much agree that this is important for a healthy indoor climate. The advice is very specific: ventilate 24 hours a day at home. That means that you also have to make sure that you open the windows at least daily for 15 minutes, or 10 to 15 minutes, against each other, so that you really have air. You have to make sure that fresh outdoor air can come in, and you have to make sure that you also open windows and doors against each other for at least ten to fifteen minutes. Companies and institutions must comply at least with the requirements of the Building Decision. Since July, this basic rule, also at the request of Wilders and others in the Chamber, has been added to the public campaign of the Government. Since October 11th, there is also a whole hand delivery service available, which is used by building managers and owners. This includes advice to ensure that existing ventilation facilities for public spaces are properly regulated. RIVM is currently in the process of carrying out model calculations to make a risk assessment of whether it is necessary or desirable to adapt the minimum ventilation requirements in the Building Decision. That was also a point of Wilders. This is now being scientifically substantiated, also from an epidemiological point of view. The results are expected in November. On this basis, we can decide whether additional efforts are required. For the catering industry, the ventilation standards for the so-called alcohol-giving hospitality services, which were included in the Drinking and Horeca Act, are now included in the Trm, the Temporary Scheme measures covid-19. There is still a very separate path for education, which we have talked about more often, because it is of course important there for the well-being of pupils and educational staff. That is a very separate process with subsidy schemes and so on, which we have talked about very often. So I think we're doing a really good job on that. It is also important what comes out of these RIVM calculations immediately whether you need to tighten up certain requirements further. Of course, we'll report to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u405	The Prime Minister briefly mentioned the regional measures. He said, well, maybe we can look at that in the expansion of the CTB. Do I understand why the Prime Minister is saying that we all want to keep the other measures nationwide? As an example, I mentioned the Wadden Islands. Why should a mouth cap be worn there, while Rotterdam is a fireplace? I would like to hear a reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u406	In law, you can take regional measures, so you can always do that. But the question was: what are we thinking now? We have now really followed the OMT advice. The OMT also says that the number of infections throughout the Netherlands is now increasing considerably. So the advice from the OMT is: don't do anything regional-specific right now. Our view is that, in the event of any further enlargement, the so-called "or how" question of a corona ticket for, for example, the non-essential retail sector, you could also consider whether such a measure could be applied at regional or local level. This depends on indicators such as the vaccination rate or the number of infections or in hospitals. What exactly does this mix of different indicators look like, we will come back to that. We don't know if we're gonna do it. I'm just sketching that it's an option we're looking at. And once again, whether and how we extend the corona ticket to that sector, we should of course also discuss here and is also part of the weighing moment of 12 November. But right now, the OMT is pretty clear that you really need to take the measures nationwide, because it's just too serious right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u407	Thank you for this interruption, Mr President. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to say what he just said about ventilation once at the press conference.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u408	It's more extensive than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u409	It's 8:55 now. Most Dutch are now watching Dortmund's preview of Ajax in the Champions League. So I don't think a lot of people are listening to what you're saying right now. It's gotta start at 9:00. I was talking about the preview, so it hasn't started yet. A lot of people look at that. Unfortunately, I think that more people are looking at that than at this debate, quite wrongly, of course. But it's important. The Chamber thinks it's important. There have been motions on it adopted by a majority of the Chamber. Once again, you have said some interesting and commendable things here. But in addition to the presence of that icon with the basic measures and saying that ventilation is also important, it would be so nice if you could hold the story you're keeping here now, which might take one or two minutes at the press conference. That's what millions of people are looking at. Maybe you can also make a separate commercial about ventilation once, so it's not just part of it anymore. That would help a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u410	So that's November 12th. Hugo? Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. On November 12th, the extensive story will be presented in the press conference. I'll just say officially: that order is therefore noted. For the whole of the Netherlands we will try to bring it so that it remains fun and fun. I believe I told you that the other day there were two boys from 4 and 6 at our door, at AZ, who asked: when is the next press conference? I said, you guys should just go play football. No, because that was all part of their rhythm. So we have to make sure that they also keep watching. So that's what I'm saying. Let me take a look at the experts for a separate spot on ventilation. It's in the campaign anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u411	Let us return to the regional measures. I do not think that is very ambitious. I would really like it if we could make a package that we could possibly use regional variations of. I am referring not only to the new measures, but also to the other measures. I understand Minister De Jonge's about to promise that. That would be very nice. It would also be nice if we could also get a statement on this in the letter and the mayors who have to enforce it can accept it and take it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u412	What we are now thinking about for our plans so far, again, is all for the next few days, and for next Friday, we are thinking of broadening the use of the CTB to non-essential retail and non-essential services. You also talk about amusement parks and zoos, for example. Whether it's necessary, we don't know yet. So that's the "or how" question. In addition, we'll see if you could do that locally. Mrs De Vries asks if you can do that on more points. Let's just look at that. Once again, we are having a real discussion about this. I hear this. I also know that it will be annoying to come back here if we do not have a good answer. We don't want to. Mr. Chairman. I'm a long way through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u413	Before you begin, Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u414	If this is still the part about the possibility of extending the corona admission ticket, we are not opposed in principle, if it would work. If we knew that with a corona pass, we would prevent people from infecting each other and people from entering the hospital, we would say, "Please, let's enter it temporarily and make sure we're free in this country after corona." But the problem is, we don't know. I have already asked a number of times, including Mr Van Dissel this morning. He referred to a TU Delft report I referred to in my contribution last year, when we didn't have a delta variant and we couldn't get vaccinated yet. We also know more and more about how you can still transfer the virus to others, even if you have been vaccinated. That is why I would like to ask the outgoing Prime Minister: what is the basis? Because when we started working with test certificates last summer, there were a lot of field lab experiments. We just don't have one right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u415	No, but they're in it. I'll try. And if Hugo de Jonge also listens, he might be able to supplement from his expertise. You can see it along a number of lines. It is not that we have a hard figure here, that you can say very precisely: if you enter the CTB, then it does exactly that on the R or the R. That's not how it works. That's just like the curfew was always the discussion. But there's a lot of evidence that it works. And that's why you can see that it's actually been introduced all over Europe. That is, as I said, in Italy, France, Germany and Belgium. First of all, the OMT itself stated at various times in its opinions, as in a few opinions, in the 126th opinion, but also in this opinion, that, in their opinion, it is, on the basis of their knowledge, that the corona access card leads to a mitigation of the risk of virus spread and contamination. Because the CTB can be obtained in different ways, i.e. with a vaccination, a recovery or a test certificate, it also stands or falls with the effectiveness of those three aspects. I'll walk by. First, the vaccination. Vaccination greatly contributes to the reduced transmission of the virus. It contributes very much to not being in the hospital, let alone in the intensive care, coming. And it also contributes very much to a much quieter disease course. So if you believe in vaccination, then a CTB is wise from that point of view for people who have been vaccinated. We know the same thing about people who had the disease. To this end, there is a different view in Europe of how long a recovery certificate is valid. I thought I would say by heart that the vaccination certificate is valid for one year in Europe and the recovery certificate is valid for six months. We actually want that all set to a year. The conversations about that are going on. But we know that there's a decent level of protection from having had corona. The most sensitive thing is going from 2G to G3. So that's the last step to taking a test. You're gonna need the proceeds from the field labs. The proceeds from the field labs are as follows. In the spring of 2021, 55,000, almost 56,000 people were tested in all these experiments. The tests showed that 0.02% of the population, I repeat: 0.02% of the population were infected at the events. So that's a very low percentage. It's not zero, of course. The best thing is, of course, if we all stay home all day, but that has far-reaching social and economic consequences. All the opinions that emerged from this have been taken into account in the approach. Again, it doesn't show that the odds are going to be zero. But the odds are way down. Then you can also look at it internationally. Many countries have introduced a form of CTB. They are mandatory in many respects, including in shops in France and Austria. In Denmark, shops are allowed to draw up their own rules around a CTB. So you do see different elements in it, but they all have a form of a corona pass. Mr Paternotte also mentioned Scotland. There is a lot of international research going on right now. Interesting is also research from Germany, because they have also introduced 2G, which also has advantages and disadvantages. But again, 3G is reliable, as it turns out in all these countries. I come to the conclusion of the question, but I try to answer it as well as I can. It is difficult, as I say honestly, to do a comparative study of practice, because you are running against a number of borders. That is why we are looking very closely at international experiences. However, the longer the CTB is deployed, more and more data will become available. Based on that data, we make analyses to see if we can make further, firmer statements than we can already make about the effectiveness of the CTB. So we will continue to follow that very closely. We also agree with the Chamber that we will share this with the Chamber immediately. The RIVM will support us in this. To sum up: if we believe that vaccination helps and the field labs show that the third leg also works, so that you can test people for them somewhere, where there is only 0.02% damage: once again no zero.... then we think that the CTB as an alternative to "the hospitality again closed" or "shops closed" is quite justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u416	I think the outgoing Prime Minister is subconsciously demonstrating my objection. The field labs were about testing. That's where people were tested. That has been done extensively in many places. They've been investigated. The corona pass we now have is a mix of tests and people who have been vaccinated. In addition, we have now also been able to get acquainted with the delta variant, which is much more contagious. My point is that the corona pass we know now is not comparable to the test evidence we had. We're talking research. I read the 126th OMT advice and I read last night's advice. It refers to the piece of TU Delft that I have here, in which arithmetic models are applied on dates from September last year to December last year. That too is out of date. Then we didn't have the delta variant and we couldn't get vaccinated yet. In addition, a level of contamination was assumed to be much lower than that which we now know. That's my objection. We're about to expand the use of the corona pass. I think we should think very carefully about whether we want to, because this is done on the basis of thin material. I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u417	Then we have reached a level where I am actually asking for the verdict to be suspended. I know what Hugo de Jonge is about to say, but he's going to do it so much more eloquence and concisely than I could. So I'm gonna leave that with him for a second. Because from the field labs, for example, a lot of experiences have emerged that have been incorporated into the approach. I'm quitting because I see you're gonna be asking follow-up questions about that. Again, as brilliant as I could do it, I really want to leave this to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u418	Mrs Gündoğan continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u419	I have a question for Mr Rutte, because Volt can find himself in a great deal of what he says. We really see the added value of vaccinating and the coronapas. Now it's said to be sent to infections. I would like to know what the number of infections Mr Rutte sends to is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u420	Of course, we look at the infections, because they lead to situations in hospitals and so on. I'm gonna get it right here. What we're looking at is what level you're at at some point. At the moment, of course, we are dealing with quite a few infections that lead to quite a few people in intensive care and quite a few people in hospitals. On September 14th, when we went down, it was of course very low. When it came to hospitalizations, you were dealing with 50 cases and 10 on the ICU. This figure has then fallen further. We reached the lowest point on October 5th. Then there were only six people on the ICU. At the moment you can see that that number is rising again. So because it's getting pretty bad, we've decided to do this. So we have gone from being vigilant to worrying to serious. That means you've got about 100 people in the hospitals. I'm gonna take a look at Hugo and the 25 people in intensive care. In intensive care we are still slightly below that, but at the hospitals we are now above 100 on the seven-day average. Those are so high figures that you really have to take the next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u421	So it is not sent to infections, but to occupation in the hospital: 25 people on the ic. I should like to mention Mr Ernst Kuipers' piece of information this morning. There's just two to three weeks lag between getting the infections that in turn lead to recordings, and the ic occupation. So my question remains on the table. If contaminations are sent, what is the number? Then I can imagine a traffic light system. Green then has a certain value. Up there we go to orange. Then we're in the danger zone. And in red we just put all the reins back on. It seems to me that after a year and a half of pandemic, there's just target figures, right? Ernst Kuipers, for example, mentioned 4,000. Well, then, I suppose I can expect the Cabinet to have guidelines for contagion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u422	We don't send to hospitals. The hospitals are an indicator. You send on the number of infections. The tricky thing is that, of course, the ratio between the number of people infected after vaccination and the number of hospitalisations that this leads to is not yet completely quivered. That's part of what we're still learning. But you send on infections. And your indicator is, what happens in the hospitals? Because in the end, you want to stop it from flooding there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u423	I think that's kind of crazy. I'm what now? Seven months of MPs and I am therefore hearing this from Mr Kuipers today. I have already heard from several people from the Red Team, for example, what the targets should be for the so-called traffic light system. The cabinet has been responsible for the pandemic for a year and a half. Then it seems to me that there are targets for that, isn't there? I'm really looking for that, because we've been dawdling for a month now after the infection started in early October to call the OMT together. And we're only taking measures now. I'm worried that the infections aren't sufficiently well targeted as a variable to steer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u424	No. Mr De Jonge will discuss this in a moment. But again, if you look at the number of infections, you also need to know, for example, how reliable the numbers of tests that take place daily are. You're not entirely sure, because you're not quite sure if anyone with complaints is getting tested. That direct link that existed last year between testing and how many infections there are and what that means for the hospitals is less sharp than it was a year ago. Secondly, you do not know exactly how many hospitalisations the number of people infected ultimately leads to by starting the vaccination certificate. This also depends on the age groups in which it occurs. So you always look at a number of indicators. Of course, the infection rate is also important. I look at it every day myself. It's 9,100 today. I know that pretty much from 12:45 and then it goes out. An hour later we also look at what happens in the hospitals. So you're looking at infections. The indicator is the number of hospital admissions. Hugo, maybe you could elaborate on that approach for the autumn and the relationship between infections and hospitalizations. In itself, Mrs Gündoğan is of course right: that is a very important one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u425	I just don't understand why the Prime Minister is making it so hard on himself. Just be honest. The cabinet hasn't sent in less infections from the beginning. It's sent on hospital capacity, on ic capacity. I'm sure that's still going on. Just admit it honestly. There's going to be a very confusing story, like "it's an indicator" or "you'll check it out and you know it," but eventually you'll see what happens in the hospitals. Eventually, they'll see what happens in the hospitals. Then just say, "We'll send on the hospital's capacity." Then that is also a fair story and then the Netherlands knows where to go, instead of sending this confused story about infections. There haven't been any less infections in a year and a half and not yet. That could be a strategy. That's not the right strategy. But just admit it honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u426	That's not true. The strategy is to ensure that we keep maximum control of the outbreak. If there are new outbreaks, try to stamp them out. You've got three things that you've got a very close eye on. What does it mean for the hospitals? Yeah, that's one. Another is: what about the protection of people with vulnerable health? And the third is to keep an eye on and keep an eye on the spread of the virus. So it's not like we're sending them to hospitals. It's an indicator, though. It's one of the things you're looking at to see if you need to go to another level of risk in the long run. That's how we've been doing it for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u427	I say, in turn, that it is simply not true what the Prime Minister says in missionary status here. When the vaccination rate went up, the cabinet deliberately chose not to take a sec look at the infections. That was in the discussion about the color codes of our country in relation to travel advice. The number of infections was really released back then. We have now seen that this has proved too shaky. By sending only on hospital admissions and ICU admissions, you're too late. There are now all kinds of curves in median variations that offer new insights. I'm kidding. But in short, you have to go back to the infections to be able to intervene more quickly. Our simple question is: does the cabinet acknowledge that and will the cabinet do so? And what signal values apply to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u428	As I said to Mrs Gündoğan, we are dealing here with the fact that the success of the vaccination campaign has naturally changed the relationship between infections and what that means for hospitalisation. I'll mention our approach, where you send to the hospitals, where you send to the vulnerable and where you send on sight and insight into the virus. Of course, it is always the case that infections lead to hospitalisations, but in the past that relationship was very clear. Then you knew that about that much percent went into the hospital and that about a quarter of them ended up in intensive care. Those proportions have changed, because the age groups have changed, because people react differently, but also because the number of infections is in a very different proportion to the number of hospitalisations and because the delta variant has been cycled through them. That is why we, where we looked at the scoreboards last summer, for example, to see what was actually going on with the infections with regard to travel, have also, of course, looked at what is happening in hospitals. There's no mystery behind that. We have no intention of doing so, other than that it was difficult to regulate how infections relate to hospitalizations. Hugo de Jonge will say something about how we see these proportions in the autumn. He prepared that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u429	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u430	It just doesn't make any sense what the outgoing Prime Minister is saying here. The number of infections has been deliberately released. That has been a conscious choice, also looking at the color codes. The red color code on the card was not found entirely right. Then they really said: we need to look much more at what it actually means for hospital and ic recordings. That's what they've been sending in. It turns out, if you send that sec, you're always late. My question is simple. Knowing that, you have to take the number of infections as an indication of when you intervene and at what point, to stop the admissions at the hospital and on the ic. How exactly you arrange that, I personally consider less important, but if the cabinet doesn't acknowledge that now, I really wonder when there will be a learning moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u431	But we know from the start of the outbreak that infections are followed by hospitalizations and that there is a delay in doing so. I'm not trying to say anything to annoy you. I'm trying to have a debate. Mrs. Kuik says that you deliberately released the number of infections. No, the tricky thing is, I say here: with the introduction of vaccination, it's just more complicated to establish the ratio between infections and what it means for hospitals. Also, you are not quite sure if everyone will be tested for complaints. That number has also decreased at some point. This also gives less clarity about the relationship between the number of positive tests and the number of people infected, on the one hand, and hospitalisations on the other. It's not that crazy. We agree that, of course, you also have to keep looking at how many infections there are, because that is ultimately also the diet for the number of hospitalizations. So that's what we're doing. There's no discussion about that at all. The point is only: as the vaccination campaign progressed better and fewer people were tested, with the delta variant once more through, the figure of course became less reliable. So you had to re-examine the proportions. That's the honest answer. There hasn't been any strategy change or anything. Not at all. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u432	Mrs Pouw-Verweij, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u433	A little extra on that. Surely we do not have to invent these figures or proportions ourselves in the Netherlands? Is it no longer possible to look at countries that are ahead of us, such as Israel, where a higher vaccination rate has been achieved earlier? They also looked at how that translated into hospitalizations and then ic-recordings. It sometimes feels as if we are a bit busy in the Netherlands generating all our own data. It's also useful to look at countries ahead of us, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u434	Today in Germany there are 2,200 people on the ic. In the Netherlands, 245 are currently on the ic. Germany is five times bigger. So there should be 1,200 in Germany. But there are 2,200 in Germany today, while they have half of our incidence. The seven-day incidence in Germany is currently half the Dutch rate. So there are just very large differences between countries. This also has to do, for example, with how countries look at the question of who does and does not go to intensive care. In the Netherlands, older people tend to go there less often on average, while in Germany much more older people go to intensive care, and also earlier from a hospital bed to an ic-bed. All this has advantages and disadvantages, which you can have a whole discussion about. So those relationships are just complicated. I think the figures from Germany and the Netherlands today show that too. Yeah, actually. But again, I do not think there is any disagreement. The number of infections is just food and the main source of control from which you leave. But you have to look at the proportions. About how we're going to do that this fall, Hugo de Jonge is about to say something. That's a long way to go. There was another question from GroenLinks about education: how do we keep education securely open and how do we ensure that this happens? You can see that educational institutions are taking very strict measures to avoid the risk of contamination as much as possible. Of course, I mentioned ventilation for a while, but there is also monitoring for hygiene measures and monitoring with GMDs where the students, students and staff are not there. In primary and secondary education they work with the generic framework of RIVM. In addition, there are also OCW service documents for the entire education. We also looked at what you should do in education. We are now returning to the duty of masking from MBO and higher education, so not in secondary education. At the same time, local GGDs are working very hard with the schools to see how to further increase the vaccination rate among young people. Hugo de Jonge is about to say something about that. There is also the urgent advice to vo, mbo and ho, i.e. from secondary education and higher education, that staff, students and students do a self-test twice a week. We monitor very precisely the effects of infections in schools. We will continue to look at what that means for policy. The OMT does not currently recommend any additional measures for primary and secondary education. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions on the two subjects I wanted to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u435	I see another interruption by Mr Omtzigt. Then we'll go to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u436	I have two questions. We seem to be following the policies of the other Western countries. Is the whole western world driving hospital occupation and vulnerable people, or are there countries that follow a different strategy? Given that we need a new strategy, I ask whether we can expect an interim report from the OVV in the short term. Countries like England and Denmark have just had a good mid-term report. Then you can adjust things. It doesn't make sense to hear from the O.V.V. until the last contagion is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u437	I answered that question about the OVV. It's not up to us. So it's up to the Room to check for itself. If I'm gonna call the O.V.V. now... look, I've been heard by the council myself. I really think it's best that the room checks when it comes. It's just an independent club. Otherwise, it's like the Cabinet had something to do with that. I can see Mr Omtzigt appearing here if he were to be somewhat concerned that we are trying to influence something there. We're not trying. So I'm not okay with doing that; I don't think that's integrity. I think the Chamber itself can check the planning of the OVV. As far as the first question is concerned, I have nothing to do with the policy that is being pursued around the world. From my contacts with my European colleagues, I do know that what the Netherlands is doing, the maximum control of the virus, the stomping of new sources through intensive source and contact research and also very closely monitoring how the hospitalizations and the vulnerable people are doing, are you keeping a close eye on and insight into the spread of the virus? The strategy is also followed by Germany, France, Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u438	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u439	I would indeed like to have an overview of that. It is now said: maximum source and contact research. But if I compare the Dutch source and contact research with the Danish source and contact research, they have four or five times as much time per person in Denmark. It's gonna be properly checked. There are also many more people being tested. In other countries intervention is much earlier and has been actively directed to a low number of infections and not to a low number of ic and hospital occupancys. I would ask the government to indicate in the next report which of the surrounding countries had the strategy to steer against keeping the number of infections low and which countries had a strategy like the Netherlands. I want a good comparison of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u440	I don't know if that's gonna work for next time. That's so much work. It's all available on the Internet. There are endless international equations. The other day, Bloomberg had another study in which we went from place 12 to place 2 as a country after Norway that had handled covid best. There are also states in which we are much worse. In all these overviews, you see what all kinds of countries do. The strategy "sustaining maximum control of the virus' and steering on the three indicators "sustainable' is being followed in all these countries. I don't hear anything else. It's a little complicated for us right now to sort of sort of figure it out. I don't want to burden the officials with that right now. I think it's all like this on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u441	There is still one question left by Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u442	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u443	The outdoor sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u444	Yes. How does it work in a cabinet like that? While I was replying, Mr De Jonge took a look at Mr Grapperhaus. Looking at Mr. De Jonge's head, they have not completely agreed. Oh, yes, I do. Okay. That reaction is now being typed out. Otherwise, I would not be able to read Mr De Jonge's handwriting. Besides, I might find some of what they've come up with. I suggest that after Grapperhaus, before the end of the first term, I make a reappearance to come up with a comprehensive assessment of outdoor sports.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u445	I'm looking forward to it. It's okay without a song, with a song, as long as I get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u446	I'm gonna go see if I can fix this non-singing thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u447	Finally, Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u448	Finally. I'm a little unsatisfied anyway. On 14 July of this year I tabled a motion together with the colleagues Simons and Kikken on maximum containment. It's been dissuaded. It was really about the number of infections. I have text here from September 11, 2020. Then Mr Rutte said: 'We can see that the rates of infection are still high, very high today: above 1,200; we are, of course, sending them to hospitalizations'. According to him, these hospitalizations are still reasonably manageable. Minister De Jonge says a week later: "Is this him, the second wave? Yeah, if we look at the growth of the number of infections. But no, if we look at the situation in the hospitals, then fortunately it is not there yet. Not yet." This is from a broadcast from Nieuwsuur. It just doesn't satisfy. What the hell are we doing? Are we sending them to hospitals? Or are we sending out infections in the context of hospitals? Or are we really controlling infections, but then we have the numbers according to the traffic light system, as does Norway? So I want a clear answer with numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u449	I see the Minister will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u450	In order to prevent Mrs Gündoğan from wasting a question on this, perhaps this is exactly the bridge between the Minister of VWS and me. I would like to make one more point. We've had the discussion about fully restraining before. I have always said that this simply cannot be done in an open economy like our Western European economy. You always have a strategy of maximum control, but if new fireplaces occur now, you try to stamp them out as much as possible. That's how the strategy has always been appointed here. Again, that's what Hugo de Jonge is about to discuss. So I'll be right back with the outdoor sports and the public outdoors.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u451	I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. Then we start with the term of the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u452	The next item is the continuation of the debate on developments concerning the coronavirus, the first term on the cabinet side. I would ask Members to take their place again. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u453	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Your instruction has, of course, been to skip the beautiful introductions and really just do the questions. I will, though you miss a lot. I shall begin with Mrs Gündoğan's question. This is in line with Mr Hijink's question, namely: what exactly is the strategy and approach for this autumn? Mrs. Gündoğan says to send that on the infections and send it on those hospital admissions. What's the deal? This part will partially echo the answer of the mp. I will complement it in the approach we outlined for this autumn. On 14 September the cabinet sent the approach for the autumn to the Chamber. This approach for the autumn shows indicators. Those indicators are about hospitalizations. There's a number attached to that. The number of hospitalisations linked to the lowest level of risk is 10 in the IC and 40 hospitalisations in the hospitals themselves. The limit of the highest level of risk is 25 in the IC and 100 in the hospitals themselves. You could derive from that: ah, so they send on the indicator "hospital recordings." When it comes to an indicator with a limit value, it is true. But can you say that the cabinet only sends for hospitalizations? No. Why not? For the reason you mention. Because you can't send in hospital admissions. Hospital recordings are the result of something that happened before, namely an infection. So if you want to intervene to reduce the number of hospital admissions, then you can only think of an intervention that affects the number of infections. That means keeping your distance. That means staying home when you have complaints. So these are the source measures, the basic measures. That also means preventing the infection from going too fast. Hence also the corona tickets. These are all kinds of interventions that are always focused on infections. So you can say "the cabinet sends on infections," but as an indicator for the moment to intervene, an indicator with a number, so we have let go of that. Why? Because the number of tests that are being taken is the effect of behavior. Are people even getting tested? Or do they turn to a self-test? We see, of course, the decreasing willingness to test, which also decreases even more strongly in unvaccinated patients than in vaccinees. We see that many more people do a self-test first and then go to the GGD. The latter is not necessarily bad. On the contrary, that is perhaps also very good and appropriate to the stage we are in. It means that you can no longer say automatically: in the case of so many infections you will have to intervene. The previous roadmaps always had an indicator per level of risk: a limit on infections and a limit on hospitalisations. Always. Because we discovered in the course of the crisis how these two interacted, we also knew when to intervene and we knew about how violent the measures should be. We adapted the roadmap that we had originally developed once. We have also taken measures that were not yet on the road map, because they were simply needed to reduce the number of infections. What we saw on September 14th I'll tell you back from the 14th of September's approach that the number of new hospitalisations per day, so that you could also count to which capacity utilisation rate that would lead per hospital, was decreasing. That made it possible for us to take the measures the OMT recommended at the time. In fact, the Twm asked to make the weighting of proportionality to determine what measures were still needed at that time, given the fact that at that time, knowing that they would lead to more contact, more infections and possibly some hospitalizations, after which we would have to intervene again at some point. That, on its own, could not mean that you would therefore not go to that scale, because given the circumstances of that moment, and the Twm also asks us to make that weighting. Right now, we're tapping that highest level of risk again. Not yet on the ICU shots, but on the hospital admissions, because that's 100 a day. That number means that if you count on the average length of time in the hospital, at some point you'll come back to a considerable overload of care. And so that justifies another intervention. Then what are we sending? Ensure that the number of new recordings per day remains below 25, below 100.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u454	Finally, Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u455	Finally, yes. I get the story that's being told. Nevertheless, I am of a different opinion and I will try briefly to explain why. This morning, during the technical briefing, Mr Kuipers... I mentioned his name earlier................................................................................................................................................................................................ According to the NZa, there are about 200,000 delayed operations, including 4,000 heart operations. The hospital in Weert, where I'm from, no longer records any new patients. It's really very serious. It still seems to me that the opinion of Mr Kuipers today to send on infections should be followed. Precisely because everything else has a delay and so you may be on the wrong side of the line, not on the right side, when you are already lagging behind. In the current situation with 9,000 infections we have to go quickly to that 4,000 max or to another number, but I leave that in the middle because everything is ultimately arbitrary. But at least to a number where we can be sure that we are going to enter the healthcare infarction and not get too many people unnecessarily ill. It is my request to follow that advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u456	I partly agree with that, except for the number. Let me explain. What we need to do now is to think up interventions that are proportionate, given the current state of affairs, to avoid something that we all want to avoid, namely that care is no longer accessible to everyone and that too many operations for non-corona patients should be cancelled. We don't want that. To keep the care accessible, the capacity utilisation rate for corona patients should go down. If that's what you want, the number of infections must be slowed down and so you need to intervene on the number of infections. That's the point of intervention. Less contacts, better distance, better enforcement of basic measures and so on. That is the whole package of measures you have just discussed, with the aim of keeping care accessible. That's what we want. The indicator we have appointed for ourselves and to which we have linked limit values from which time intervention should be deployed or increased is the indicator of hospitalisation with a target of 25 and 100. You will say: yes, but we also want a fixed number on the contamination, because we know from what point in time we have to come to that intervention. We have been looking for this for a long time, in the run-up to the autumn approach. Both in the OMT and in the cabinet, as well as at international level, there was not a good idea of what this new relationship would be like. Why not? Because there are too many factors on each other, which were unknown to us and are still unknown at the moment. That is what the relationship between access tests and tests on complaints at the GGD is about. What about the test compliance that people are showing? If they have been vaccinated, they might say, "I don't care anymore, I'm not testing anymore." Indeed, we see that compliance decreases after vaccination. Moreover, compliance among unvaccinated people is much lower. How should we properly determine the ratio between the number of positive test results per day and the number of hospitalisations that result, given a vaccination rate of over 85% and a seasonal effect that in an unknown way will affect the infection in this autumn? In short, there are still too many unknown factors that we could not flatten to one number. What we were able to do was to prevent care from becoming overburdened, because that remains the objective: to protect vulnerable people and to protect them from overload. That goal has never been changed. The maximum control, the strategy, has never changed either. What has changed is the indicator we name from which moment you need to make new interventions to prevent care from overloading.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u457	Thank you to the Minister for this explanation. I think it is very nice how he describes that proportionality is a guiding principle for the cabinet in the measures it takes. It is not the case that the government is taking away more and more freedoms, as I sometimes listened to colleagues. It is true that there is occasionally a measure that should help at that time to prevent contamination. Sometimes it hurts, usually it hurts us all. I am very committed to the fact that we continue to name it with each other. It was precisely for this purpose that I found it so important that we look at the study of the WRR, together with the Academy on the long-term scenarios. The danger is that we are constantly announcing a set of measures, because at that time the number of infections and hospitalisations is high. That is right, and we are always talking about what is an appropriate package, but it is logical that we should take action. At some point, however, we must avoid constantly restricting freedoms, when we should steer and anticipate better. Times were uncertain, so it's not a criticism if we look back. But looking ahead, now that we know more about the virus, I think: what is it important that we continue to develop it. I would therefore like to encourage the Cabinet to speed up these scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u458	Yes, I agree with you very much. You almost formulate it searching. A number of groups also formulated it critically and with different forms of criticism. I would like to start with the word "property." Proportionality has been strongly emphasised by several groups since the beginning of the Twm in establishing the legal framework within which the cabinet could act. We had the Wpg, but it was much less standardized to how far the cabinet could go in taking measures. The Court has attached itself to getting better involved, which was a reason for the Twm..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That, too, was a reason to come to the Temporary Law measures COVID-19. To anyone who says "why didn't you just stick to the measures you had, because because because you've relaxed, we're right where we are," I ask you to take the film back for a month and a half. Imagine that we had said at that time: we see that we are at the lowest level of risk and that we are at a very low level in terms of uptake; we are keeping the measures as strict as they were. The whole Chamber would have said: yes, but that is very strange, because the number of infections and the number of hospital admissions is much lower. How then are these measures still proportionate? With the law in hand, the Chamber would also have just had a point, because the legal mandate, which I believe was amended by the CU, is to take the measures as proportionate as possible, given the state of play at the time, knowing that every measure you take is inevitably a restriction of freedoms. Mr Van der Staaij has stressed this once again. The measures must therefore always be proportionate, given the circumstances at the time. That is our legal mandate, and so I believe that we could not do otherwise, in accordance with the law, but also on the basis of the OMT opinion, than at that time relax the measures. There are always taste and gradation differences, but that was the most logical. Now we are in a situation where we have reached the highest level of risk. Exactly Tuesday, for the first time, we marked that seven-day average of 100 hospitalizations. So we got to the level level of risk. In line with the approach adopted for the autumn of 14 September, this meant that new interventions aimed at preventing infections were to be carried out in order to keep the number of hospitalisations below these indicators. We'll keep doing that. That is the approach for this autumn. We must continue to do so. The question is, of course, always: is that enough? For this we consult our advisors and actually take up what our advisors advise. We do not do that blindly, of course not, but we must, certainly at this complicated stage, be very good on our advisors. Hence this package of measures. I will explain the measures later. But, Mrs Bikker says, there will of course be a spring after this autumn and you hope that the further we are with vaccination, the better we will be able to control the virus. That's right. We have seen very high waves, but every new wave we get is always lower than the previous wave, if we intervene in time. That's the way it is. Those scenarios are more about the real long term. What if we end up in something of an endemic phase, where we just have to learn to live with the virus, and the epidemic phase is actually over? Maybe we're getting too greedy with that kind of concept, or we're hoping too soon that we're already there, but we just aren't there yet. What are you doing in that situation? We have to take the scenarios that have been worked out very seriously. We have to relate to this. But that is what I would like to emphasise, not the situation we are already in this autumn. It's just too early for that. Hopefully you'll end up there next year. We shall have to consider in due course, because there is also a legal side to this, so we will have to consider what the legal arrangement should look like with the Chamber to look for the debate. I would think this would be by the first quarter of next year at the latest. Mr President, I apologise for this too comprehensive answer, but I am committed to answering the questions properly. And I think I've actually had a lot of questions with these answers. Then I can go right through my second block. Maybe I should tell you how I classified the answer. First of all, I will answer the questions about vaccination, then about testing, then about the corona admission certificate and the additions we would like to make to it, then a number of questions about the care scale and finally a number of various questions that I could not put so much into this classification. First of all, the vaccination. I would like to begin by addressing this important issue that Jaap van Dissel mentioned this morning, which I discussed last week during the budget debate with Fleur Agema, and which I also discussed with Mrs van der Plas: what about vaccine effectiveness? To what extent is it possibly decreasing? Or, in other words, to what extent does vaccine effectiveness lead to the ratio between vaccinated and unvaccinated in hospitals? This is an important issue, because the studies are easily misunderstood and the changing relationship between the number of vaccinees and the number of non-vaccines could also easily be misinterpreted. I'd like to try to explain that properly. First of all. The vaccine effectiveness and protection of vaccines can be measured in different ways. The most important aspect is protection against serious infections, because this is linked to hospitalisation and possibly even mortality. Protection against serious infections is therefore the most important. Serious infections measured in terms of hospitalisations. A lot of research is being done on that. International, but also in the Netherlands. Then you look at the extent to which hospitalizations occur. The vaccine effectiveness in the Netherlands is still super high: 94% against hospitalisations and 97% against intensive care intakes throughout the period July to October. Over the past eight weeks, vaccine efficacy was 93% and 96%, respectively. Pretty much the same thing, but still a little lower. That had everything to do with the increased infection pressure. I will explain this in a moment, but that certainly has to do with it. Decreasing immunity is not really seen very much, whether it should be among the oldest elderly, but actually we see that effect more international in a number of studies than we actually see in the Netherlands. That is why I shall come back to that in a moment to the booster....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The vaccine effectiveness is slightly less high, i.e. over 90% for hospitalisations in the 70-year-old age group than in those below. This simply has to do with vulnerability and a detachable effect of the immune system. As regards the ratio between vaccinees and unvaccinated, the figures also show a shift in October. That has everything to do with it. On average, vaccine effectiveness against hospitalisation is very high. Among older people, it is slightly less high than among young people. Especially among older people, a higher infection pressure leads to more vaccinated elderly people becoming sick. That means that those numbers change in the ratio between vaccinees and unvaccines. On average over the whole period, that's not that bad, but if you look at the last few weeks, you'll see a shift in that and you'll see that in the hospitals right now. That was reported this morning in the briefing and also in the numbers of the RIVM that were sent through a letter from me. We want to demonstrate periodically the relationship between vaccinees and unvaccinated patients in hospitals. I've got one last sentence and then I'd like the interruptions. What we see is that the vaccines at the individual level are still extremely protective. But where people are old and vulnerable, you see that the higher infection pressure, with comorbidity, with a vaccine that we know doesn't work 100% and yet people can still be easily infected, can lead to hospitalization more often. Then there is still that where most of the people outside have naturally been vaccinated, that does not apply to the people in hospitals. But the numerical ratio is going to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u459	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u460	I'd like to break a lance for the sixties. The Minister says that immunity may be decreasing slightly more among the elderly. Jaap van Dissel showed balls with where and between whom these infections occur. This is mainly between unvaccinated people themselves, but also a little more between vaccinees themselves. One group really stands out: the sixties. While on average in the Netherlands between 20 and 40 is the place where it goes around the most, the vaccinees are the 60s, the AstraZeneca group. Now the Health Council says that they can get a booster, but if I look at that ball like that, they might as well need it quickly, while they are actually at the end of the line in the order that the minister sees in front of them. Is there anything specifically known about the decreasing immunity of this vaccine? And there is no reason for this group to look specifically at whether they should have the chance to get that booster if they visit a prick bus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u461	It's about large numbers of people, so we have to organize it in a somewhat orderly way. That's why you have to start with the group that needs the most. That's one. Two. You give that booster primarily to prevent serious illness and hospitalization. This booster is not so much an epidemiological tool, but it is mainly intended to prevent serious illness and mortality. What you're trying to do with this is to go back to the primary reason for vaccination. That's not to prevent anyone from getting sick at all. That's not necessarily the point. It's about protecting people from serious illness and hospitalization. That's what we want to do. If you look at the decreasing effectiveness, for example in the Astra group, you can see that that protection is actually quite good. He's still over 90%, including Astra. That makes sense to involve those 60-plussers in the booster vaccine where I just mentioned the numbers of the 70-plussers, but not to let those 60-plussers get their turn before the 70-plussers or 80-plussers. That won't be necessary. Of course, the numbers are bigger there, so you can also go a little faster. So it's really not that they have to wait a very long time. I don't expect that at all. But it is true that we first like to vaccinate the 80-plussers and then the 60- to 80-year-olds, but then from old to young. That is also the advice of the Health Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u462	Mr. Paternotte. No? Then Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u463	Last week we had a discussion in the health budget about how people in hospitals, vaccinated and unvaccinated. Last week the argument was very strong: look at it, there really are most unvaccinated. That provoked the discussion as to whether it was in any hospital and whether it is in this week or in the longer term. Is the vaccine effectiveness not a more reliable measure than the snapshot ofvaccinated and unvaccinated people in the hospital? Do we not also avoid unnecessary discussion by following as much as possible one given over time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u464	That is a valid point. Why I think it is necessary to point out the number of hospital beds that we unfortunately have to free for corona at the moment, which is also really at the expense of the commitment you can make to caring for other patients, is to show how much that disease is still in our control and how much it could put the accessibility of care under pressure for all of us. That was the discussion we had last week, also in the light of the sustainability of care. At that time, I said the following. If you look at all hospital admissions so far, you can see that three out of four hospital admissions and four out of five ICU admissions are non-vaccines. Those were indeed last week's figures. I also said that this figure is going to run. Mrs Agema was right to point that out. That figure's gonna run. There is no other way, because time goes on and the group of vaccinees gets bigger. A very small percentage from a larger group can be increased in absolute numbers compared to a rather large percentage of a much smaller group taken on its own. So you just see that the game or numbers is happening. But there is something else going on, and I would like to point that out. As the infection pressure increases, you see the following. The infection in the elderly, which is more likely to have a less effective immune system if there is comorbidity, can still cause quite a serious disease. We know the vaccine doesn't protect 100%. That's why you actually see vaccinees in the hospitals. But the average age of the vaccinees in the hospital is very much higher than the average age of the unvaccinated people in the hospital. All this can be found in the tables. That is, on its own, an indicator that a vaccine actually works very well. But if there is serious comorbidity, then it may be that a vaccine does not work sufficiently in those people. That means, indeed, that there may also be vaccinated people in the hospital. The problem with that figure is that it is then said: you see, because there are also vaccinated people in the hospital, the vaccine will not be effective. But then I go back to the beginning of my story: the latter is not true. On an individual level, the vaccine still protects insanely well against hospitalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u465	I understand 100% of what the minister is saying here, but at the same time it's a complicated story to communicate with society. One week you say the vaccine works, look, the majority of the people in the hospital are unvaccined. A while later, there are more vaccinees in the hospital, because that is of course a much larger group. There are all reasons for that. But then you have to explain that that doesn't mean that... I think that's a very complicated communication stroke. You can ask yourself whether all this really helps to make it clear and whether it is better to communicate clearly, from the most reliable figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u466	The shortest and easiest is of course just to say that vaccination works. That's true. And how do we know that? Take a look at how often disease is prevented by vaccination. All the international evidence on that point is simply completely consistent. It protects against hospitalisations by the 90%. It may well decrease over time, but against hospitalization it now simply protects by the 90%. You wouldn't have to be all Pieter Ommzigt to follow the government communication message, so to speak. So let's just say that vaccination works and is insanely effective. Against hospitalizations, that's over 90%. It protects 75% against a common infection. Against transfer, this is 50% to 63%. This is now apparent from all the international evidence. There's no doubt about that. That's fantastic. We can be very grateful for standing there. In any case, there are a lot of vaccines, which we have been using for years, with some less good reports. But this vaccine, against this disease, is just insanely effective. The point is just... You don't get out of using those other numbers, too, because those other numbers are used sometimes that's also abused in a huge smokescreen that is raised around the effectiveness of vaccines. That is why I think we should be willing to explain these other figures to each other. That is what I would like to see done as easily as possible, and that is not always easy. The story is sometimes quite complicated. Mr. Chairman. This involved the effectiveness of vaccines. Then we go to the VVD's question about the booster. Others have also asked questions about the booster. First of all, why do we choose this timing for booster vaccines? You know that from the summer onwards we asked the Health Council what would be a good time to booster. It is not entirely a case of 'if it is not, then it does not harm'. That was also changed in the Chamber. You're gonna need those six months in between anyway. That's the most effective time between the second shot and the booster. That's one. Two. You need to see where a vaccine is best spent. Okay, the Netherlands no longer has a shortage of vaccines, but of course we also have a responsibility worldwide. That is why we have also said that we are not going to start boosters too early if that simply does not prove necessary on the basis of decreasing immunity. Then what's the point? The Health Council also says that it is necessary to consider whether there is already a decline in immunity and a decline in protection against hospitalisations. The Health Council said in its earlier opinion: "Well, fortunately not. So you don't have to. But prepare yourself." We did. But there has been a reason to ask that question again. And now the Health Council says: "Yes, it is good to see that in the first international investigations we see a decreasing immunity for hospitalisations among the oldest elderly. That makes sense to start that booster campaign and then start with the oldest elderly. But you shouldn't make that group too small." That's why we're up to the 60-year-olds. This is how we make Mr Paternotte happy. Well, actually, we're just doing the right thing that he made, which is you actually have to put a pretty big circle around who you'd like to booster. Those are the 60-plussers. But Mrs De Vries says: you are definitely going to be the group that really needs it, for example... Let's say we're going to notice at some point that the Janssen vaccines show reduced protection. Isn't that a logical reason to do it? My answer to that is yes. In addition to what the Health Council has advised, we say: we will also allow those 60-minners when we have had the 60-plussers. But I don't do that with all small groups. I will do that at all by giving the 60-minners the opportunity. What's the reason for that? There are two reasons for this. One. The Health Council clearly shows that age is really the most important indicator. It's just the most important indicator, also for the need to booster. Two. The lesson of the past year is of course: now choose larger groups, where in the past year we had to choose for all small clubs that all had a separate invitation route. That was very labour-intensive, but sometimes very clumsy in communicating. So that's what we're doing now. We are not all going to make separate exceptions, except if it is really necessary or if it would become necessary. For example, if we were to get a signal at some point that one of the vaccines is suddenly falling apart in protection, we would have to. But if it doesn't have to, rather not, because the easier it is to communicate, the better it is to do and the less hassle it gives. So from December onwards, we will do all mobile elderly people via the GGD. These are all elderly people who can come to the prick's street with their own help or with some help. They are given the opportunity to be pricked at the GGD from the beginning of December. From December onwards, we will also be doing the institutions, but then the institutions with their own medical services, because they are the fastest to start. The settings where the GGD would then prick, start from January. Then it's about the institutions with just 18-plus. So these are all institutions of any kind of care, whether it is nursing care or disability care or GGD, with residents of 18-plus. Why? Because that booster was only approved for 18-plus and because we say: you really just have to do all those settings. We'll just do that in one route. Once again, the institutions with a medical service can start in December and institutions where the GGD has to work, we will do so from January. We hope that, after those 80-plussers are done, we can get to work at the GGD in the same way as the 60- to 80-year-olds. Often they'll be mobile people. And the 60-plussers in the settings are simply pricked along the settings route. We also said: look, this booster campaign is not an epidemiological instrument. It's not meant to slow down the epidemic. It's really to prevent hospitalization. But with care workers, it still works differently. There you also want to prevent infection, because infection means outage and outage means fewer beds are available. We do not want to do that and so we have said: we want to do the care staff with patient contact quickly. But we don't want that to be at the expense of that oldest group, so not through the G.D.D. At least we would prefer not to, because we would rather just do it with the healthcare institutions themselves. We want to do that as the hospitals once pricked the hospitals and the whole acute care. The conversation we had with the hospitals is about whether they could also be able, for example, to prick people with patient contacts into long-term care. Well, the hospitals are very friendly in that, but of course they do have a number of conditions. That is right, because it must all remain a bit organizeable for them. That is what we are working on right now, and that is what determines when we can start in that care. But we'll do it as soon as we can. Then a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u467	An interruption by Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u468	I understand the Minister says that the booster campaign starts as soon as possible. We had a technical briefing this morning indicating that it's a huge logistics. But I understood a while ago from the foreman of the GGD, André Rouvoet, that the GGD is ready to run a possible booster campaign within two weeks. So that would be earlier than December/January.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u469	As far as I am concerned, that would be at the beginning of December. That's the target moment of today. The campaign is currently being prepared. We said, as I said in the Chamber last time, that the GD should be ready for the start. Of course, we cannot all hire people and then leave them unemployed on the couch, which is not the case. But the GGD has to be ready for the start to do the whole organization. They are. So from the moment we press "go," the GGD is gonna hire people and make sure we're actually gonna prick. One point: the labour market is now, of course, much tighter than it was a year ago. That's what makes it more complicated. But the GGD just gets to work and doesn't start later than possible. But I am now deliberately mentioning early December because I do not want to communicate a date that could not be feasible. The GGD is working right now. At the beginning of December seems to be a feasible date.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u470	I assume that if André Rouvoet says that it could be technically within two weeks, he has also taken account of labour shortages, so that we could start, for example, in mid-November.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u471	Well, we are not going to negotiate the starting date here; we need to take implementation seriously on this point. The GGD is ready for the start in the sense that the whole process is prepared. The project leaders are there, the whole process is prepared, the locations are there; all that is not the point. But of course, you're going to have to recruit staff for this large-scale campaign. You can't hire them months earlier, because they'd have to sit on the couch without a job, and nobody wants that. Everyone wants to get to work. The point is that they had just been ready but are now implementing it. We choose the fastest starting date, but I choose a date that I think is real and that is early December.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u472	I get that. But I would like to remind the Minister of the trade association's offer of doctors' assistants. A few thousand people have volunteered to help with pricking.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u473	I like to use every offer and the GGD of course, so that's not the point. The difficulty in scaling up human power is mainly the BIG-registered staff, especially doctors. We like to take advantage of what's possible there. Mr. Chairman. The one about the booster. In doing so, I have had the most important questions about the booster. At Janssen we do not yet have any additional reason to take a course of our own. The Health Council also says this. If it were, we'd have the opportunity to bring it forward. But for the time being, I want to stick to large groups, because we've seen that if you make all those small groups, it's a lot harder to organize in logistics. So you want to keep big groups, unless there's a reason to do it differently. Finally. We will continue to monitor vaccine effectiveness. In any case, every two weeks we have new RIVM figures on vaccine effectiveness. If there is any decline in immunity, among a group, for any reason, for example because of the type of vaccine that has been taken, there is the possibility to accelerate. That's the monitoring capability we've set up with the GDD. Then about the vaccination campaign. We really have work to do there. Because although we are already starting the booster, we are certainly not finished with the primary round. We're currently at 87.5% for the first shot. If we had said that to each other in January, we would have congratulated each other, but now we see that the delta variant is not very impressed and still plays us pretty hard. So there is not something you could call group immunity, so we can afford that some of it has not been vaccinated, because we would have been vaccinated with each other in such a way that no more measures are needed. We simply see that despite the measures we have at present, the infections are getting worse and, as a result, hospitalizations are getting worse. So it has to go up further. That is the point of simply analysing where it is located, unbroken and without any restraint. Then who hasn't been vaccinated yet? We know more and more about that, through all kinds of file links. Mr Wilders mentioned this, but this morning it was actually already on the agenda in the technical briefing. Mrs Van den Berg also mentioned it. Then who are they? Then who are those groups that have not yet been vaccinated? First of all, we are talking about people with a non-Western migration background. That is also mentioned in all those sheets as an important group. That's a strong negative predictor of covid vaccination. Low level of education is also such a predictor. Right-Christian is, too. So if you try to plot it geographically, you can see that it's mainly about the three big cities and the Biblebelt. That's the geographical distribution. Okay, then you know where they live, and then you might know a little bit about the demographic background. But what reason is there not to be vaccinated? Part of that has a religious background, but that's really only a limited part. You'll see that in that technical briefing this morning. If you look at the total number of non-vaccines, 50-min and 50-plus are always taken apart, then about 12% of the non-vaccines have a Biblet background. So let us assume for a moment that they have a religious reason not to be vaccinated. Of course, we don't know that one-on-one, but you could assume that; we don't even know that for sure. Of course, that's a very small group on the whole. A double group is the number of non-Western immigrants. By the way, half of it is divided among all kinds of groups, also in the rest of the country. In short, there is no single group and there is therefore no single approach. So what we see in all GGD regions is that there is an approach for all groups. We are looking not only at the demographic background, but also, above all, at why. What is the reason why people have not been vaccinated? Interestingly enough, there are all kinds of issues that are often very different, but are also similar in the different demographic groups. Example: the vaccine has been developed in a very short time, how can it actually be a safe vaccine? Or: "I read somewhere that my fertility would deteriorate if I were vaccinated. How's that? I have questions about that." There are a lot of people with questions. There are also people who are just angry and against and who are never going to use it, but there are a lot of people with questions. If you had to put a subdivision into that, you could say the following. Of the 13% today, it is 12.5% that you could still win, you have to assume that about half will not, because that is also evident from the National vaccination programmes. The other half could still convince you. Then it is very important not only to see where they live, but also to see why they have not been vaccinated. All these locations and all these reasons require intervention. That brings me to Mrs De Vries' question about what you actually do. So we are focusing on all those areas that have not yet been punctured. We focus on all the underlying doubts about pricking and therefore on why. We have focused all kinds of national communication actions on this, but the very best still works increasingly precisely the fine-meshed vaccination. From May we are already working on that, but it gets finer with the week. We also use others to help us, because to a lesser extent the government is the best messenger to bring the story to light. So you have to work with general practitioners, work with other doctors, make pop-up locations in mosques, churches, hospitals. In short, wherever there are people who have doubts and who would like to have answered a question before they could get over the bridge, we go to them. Mrs De Vries and Mrs Van den Berg, as well as Mrs Bikker and Mrs Kuik ask what else you could do in those neighbourhoods. One of the measures we are currently working on is to start communication in the postal codes with the lowest vaccination rate, i.e. at postcode level. The second thing we do is start a pop-up location at the postcodes with the lowest vaccination rate as close as possible in the neighborhood, preferably in combination with tests. That is also what Mrs Bikker and Mrs Kuik suggested: can that testing not be much more low-threshold, can that vaccination not be much more low-threshold and could that be some kind of entry point in that neighborhood? Keep me good; the G.D.D. is working on that. It could be a running point on wheels, a mobile point, or a pop-up location. That really depends on the context in which that happens. Sometimes you may want to be visible and sometimes you may not want to be very visible. This applies, for example, to the Biblebelt. That's where it helps to do it more anonymously. The general practitioners who work more anonymously are actually the most successful there. In short, everywhere we do what works, as finely as possible, with the most effort in the neighborhoods where the assignment is greatest. Paternotte has all kinds of suggestions for how you could involve the general practitioners. We're gonna involve the GPs, a lot of them. From every general practitioner who raises his finger and wants to help, we take the finger with his whole hand and his whole arm. The other way around, we ask general practitioners: would you like to help besides your busy job? A lot of GPs want that too and a lot of GPs have their own unique role to find their own entrance to people. That gp on Urk really had a fantastic story, but there are so many GPs with a fantastic beautiful story. That's very helpful, so we'd really like to take advantage of that. The suggestion made by Mr Paternotte does, however, encounter a number of GDPR concerns. It's not like the GP has an insight into the RIVM system. It is also not the case that RIVM has an insight into the general practitioner registration. So you can't do that. But as a general practitioner you can of course say: I'm going to write to all those 55-plussers anyway. The GP can of course also say: I actually want to be scheduled a day a week in the district center where that pop-up location is; then I do my own customers, because I actually know them. In short, the general practitioners can work very easily with the RIVM and the GGD's. And if there's a barrier somewhere, then of course we'll see how to remove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u474	Before you proceed, Mr Paternotte of D66 has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u475	I do think that more needs to be done here, also because what the general practitioners can do ultimately has the most return, to put it simply. Those prick cans are really good. But I also read in the letter that you sent to us last night that it mainly reaches young people, that they are especially pricked by it. We know that the odds with 50-plussers are much greater that they get into the hospital. That is the great challenge we face now. Those doctors can help with that. On Urk you do see such a walk-in. People who have been vaccinated, for example, have often said that they are okay with sharing their data. But GPs are concerned that they do not have an overview on the basis of that data, even if people have said: I am fine with it if the GP knows. Can we not ensure that they get that overview, at least to the extent that people have given permission to do so? Then they'll know who to focus on. We started this discussion with the example of Denmark, where 97% of people over 50 have been vaccinated. Every 50-pluser who hadn't been vaccinated got a call. I'd like you to ask everyone the question right away: Are you sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u476	I would give it to us to choose the interpretation of the GDPR that Denmark chooses, but I think that the first party I will always find on my way will be D66. Either way, the consent requirement is so reduced that as a vaccinee you may indicate that you are okay with sharing your data with the RIVM. I remember thinking very seriously about making that an obligation, but we didn't do that to give people no reason not to be vaccinated. But when people are pricked by a general practitioner, they can indicate whether or not they want their data to be shared with the RIVM. They have not indicated that RIVM can share it with others, because of course that is not possible. It is therefore not possible for RIVM to share data with the general practitioner. That's going the other way. In addition, RIVM very often doesn't know, or never really, what the practical layout is like. RIVM doesn't know who's with which GP. In short, that simply cannot be administratively done. But I don't think we should make it that complicated either. We need to make it more practical. The general practitioners are insanely good at helping people in their own practice. They know which people are vulnerable and which people need a boost. That's how they do it. General practitioners also make themselves available for actions on the market, on pop-up locations, in test streets and so on. So there are a lot of opportunities for general practitioners to do a project. There are also really a lot of fantastic projects that GPs participate in. I would, of course, like to remove any practical obstacle, but I do not think we should do it in such a way that we need a legislative amendment before we can get to work at all. That's just the slowest way to get results.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u477	I'd like to ask two more questions to another minister, so that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u478	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u479	Then I will turn to the questions that have been asked about vaccination. What possibilities does the Minister see for people with conscientious objection to certain vaccines? I heard Mrs Bikker ask that. Of course, we now have a number of vaccines at our disposal. I know that the concerns of conscience relate in particular to the Janssen vaccine. That has to do with the use of human cell line. The AstraZeneca vaccine is also available and has not used a human cell line. A chimp adenovirus is used for this purpose. Of course, the mRNA vaccines are completely separate from that type of platform. Protein vaccines are still coming. That could take away another threshold. But it's gonna be a while. We expect it really to take a few months before the first protein vaccines are registered. We have just ordered them, so we have them in the basket. But I wouldn't recommend people waiting for that Novavax vaccine, because then you'll probably run into the virus somewhere in this wave. You're gonna regret that. I'd like to ask people to choose a mRNA vaccine if they don't want Janssen. Because I believe that this is free of that type of objection in principle. I think I'm through. Oh, no. Home vaccination. That has indeed taken far too long; Mrs Den Haan simply has a point. That has everything to do with what we had hoped for, and hoped for Home vaccination, that it would be easier for them to do a faster action and therefore to be able to prick more people a week. It just didn't work out well enough. A lot has been done, but it hasn't happened fast enough. What we learned from that is that maybe we should do it differently with those booster shots for the same group. We then let the GGD do it with home teams, actually in the same way, but with more capacity. I know that it is still slower than you want, because it requires a lot of capacity and you can really only put a few shots in one day per person. But we're going to organize it through the GGD after this round has been completed by Home vaccination. Then we continue through the GGD's with the booster shots for the same target group. By the way, you will have to wait for enough months after that second shot with those booster shots. So there is a certain amount of time, but of course we will continue to do so, in a more practical way than the way we have done it. Mr. Chairman. Then we'll go to the questions that have been asked about testing. Luckily, that's only a few of them. A strong plea has been made, among other things by Mrs Westerveld, for a lot more testing, actually in all possible ways. The reassurance is either that it is not real; I do not really know that we are testing a lot now. Part of that, I think, has a good reason, namely that this is done through Testing for Access. It's about half a million appointments a week. I think that next weekend's policy changes will mean that more testing will be done through Access Testing. That's good, too. You also catch a number of infections, about 0.5% of what is positive there. That's a lot on those huge numbers. In addition, we have the number of people who will test for complaints at the GGD. That's going to go up a lot. It's about 60,000 appointments a day at the moment. It's gonna be all right. Last week, for example, more than 300,000 tests were conducted at the GGD. So in total we come up with over 800,000 tests in a week. When we were here at the beginning of last year, there were 8,000 with pain and difficulty. So by now, that's 800,000 tests a week. Saves a huge sip on a drink. This is just going to grow in the coming period, because unfortunately the number of complaints is going to increase, but also because the number of applications for testing for access and for working with corona access cards is going to increase. But of course, much more can be tested. You said, "How are we going to make sure people get tested much better?" First of all, in that public campaign, of course, by the basic measure that you stay at home if you have complaints. In addition, of course, we have a number of ways to promote self-testing. We see that the self-testing is very often the reason to go to the GGD afterwards. So that also helps very much in compliance, to say it with an ugly word. We are still doing self-testing in secondary and higher education. We are still giving self-tests through the food banks and the Poverty Fund. So we're still trying to provide it with low-threshold. But I want to get on with that. I want to use the self-tests we have at our disposal even more easily. That's one. Two: I also want to facilitate testing in the neighbourhoods with the lowest vaccination rate and the highest level of infection. There are also pop-up locations for vaccinations. I'm thinking about doing that by getting you tested and vaccinated at the same location, both of you. I would like that to be a good way of lowering that threshold in real neighbourhood-oriented terms. That is also in line, I think, with Mrs van den Berg's question about the low threshold for testing complaints. We already have 155 locations and 35 mobile units at the GGD right now. In doing so, we also implement the Van den Berg motion that she submitted earlier, by making the GGD flexible also via mobile units when it comes to where you would like to offer even more low-threshold testing possibilities, namely where the fireplace is the largest. When testing for access, foundation SON is encouraged to provide as many purchasing locations as possible. That's 400 by now. So that's getting more and more dense. This allows us to meet the Caroline van der Plasnorm: ensure that everyone can reach such a location within half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u480	Thank you. Mrs Van den Berg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u481	This is my last interruption, Mr. Chairman. I know. We're not here to test for access.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u482	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u483	We find, on the contrary, that a lot of people are not being tested for complaints and that these tests can only be carried out at some large GGD locations. This can be implemented flexibly, but as finely as in other areas. In a municipality like Rotterdam you should have several locations where you can have tests for complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u484	Let's take these two things apart. That's right. GGD GHOR has set up 155 permanent locations. Partly because of your motion there are 35 mobile units, which you could put near fireplaces. In addition, we have to neighborhoods with the lowest vaccination rate and the highest contagion rate, which are usually the same neighborhoods; hey, how would that happen? because vaccines are very effective, low-threshold pop-up locations, perhaps on wheels, in which you can vaccinate and test at the same time. I come to the second final question about testing, Mrs De Vries' question, about testing for access to the Wadden but not wanting to raft. That has a very good reason: the vaccination rate on the Wadden is insanely high, so there is no money for a test provider from organising tests for access. But that is not a good answer, because there are people there who have not been vaccinated and want to be tested. So we ask SON to investigate whether given the historical demand and the expected test demand, test providers could be able to guarantee sufficient test capacity there. The broadening of the application that we are now choosing could help something, because it will result in more frequent testing. If all that doesn't work out, I'm sure we'll have to do something ourselves, outside the whole system of access testing. 'Cause you don't have to go by boat to a test street. That shouldn't be necessary. The last question about testing is the hardest one. That is Mrs Pouw-Verweij's question. Last time it was difficult and it is still difficult, but I am going to try to explain it as well as possible. "Could serological testing give you an opportunity to prove that you've built immunity, allowing you to get a corona pass and just go in? Couldn't you do that? If you don't, you're gonna miss a lot of people who had the infection but didn't get tested for it. They could've built up immunity, too. So why don't we?" That was the basic idea of Mrs Pouw-Verweij. That's a good idea in the base. This has not only been investigated in the Netherlands. In many other countries, too, we have looked at whether this is the way to do it. I promised at that time that I would ask the OMT for advice on this matter. The OMT has advised on this. After initial enthusiasm the enthusiasm has been somewhat tempered for a number of reasons. One. With that serological test, the timing of infection cannot be properly determined, says the OMT, and therefore there is no time limit. All this would still be possible, but that is an observation. Two. There are no internationally accepted cut-off values as to how high the antibody titers should be in order to actually say that sufficient immunity has been built up. It's very difficult to settle that properly. That's a reason that makes it harder. A third reason is that there is a very wide variety of serological tests and, in particular, the serological rapid tests are not sufficiently reliable. You can use these at population level to determine immunity at population level, but they give too many false positive and false negative results. The large numbers do that, but in an access situation it does not provide sufficient reliability and that makes the problem great. The most difficult thing is that the collection of blood, for a truly reliable serological test, is a reserved action. So you're gonna need BIG-registered personnel to do that. But there's just not enough of that kind of staff. That's actually what the whole debate is about. There are already too few staff for the vaccination streets, for the regular test streets and for the hospitals. So we just don't have enough staff to do that. If we were to open up this possibility to all those who have naturally built up immunity, but cannot prove it with a positive test result they have ever received at the GGD, then we simply do not get it manned. Apart from the reliability issues, there is also a performance issue. That makes the OMT come to the conclusion: it is better not. Incidentally, there is something else: it is really not recognised internationally. If you would do that in the Netherlands, it will not help you travel again. That makes that a good idea, I really want to underline, because I was also excited about it after research is simply not possible. Unfortunately, that happens all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u485	Thank you to the Minister for his comprehensive response. What I find difficult about this is that it was my conviction... The Minister said at first on my motion that advice had already been requested from the OMT and that he wanted to wait. He asked me if I wanted to hold my motion. Then I said no, because I would like to have some pressure on this and make a political statement on it, so I would like to do so before the OMT opinion. Then the Minister said: I will take the advice for implementation. I thought that was a really good idea, because I think it's very good to ask experts how we can best apply it. But the reaction 'we do not think it is worthwhile at the moment' seems to me to be primarily a political choice that the Chamber has already made. I would like to look at the implementation and ask the OMT once again for advice. But whether or not we should, I don't think it's a choice that's up to the OMT. We asked them for practical advice. The Chamber has already said unanimously, by 150 votes in favour, that we need to introduce this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u486	At that time, the Chamber was unable to resist your enthusiasm for this idea. Just like I do, because it's just a really good idea in the base. I said at the time: we have already asked for advice, but that advice is simply not yet in, so hold the motion for a resolution. You didn't want me to. You had that motion put to the vote. This is without prejudice to the fact that the opinion is of course not insignificant. The opinion gives a number of important reasons for not wanting to do it, although it seems a good idea. I just listed those reasons. These reasons have a substantive background, namely that most cellulological tests are simply not reliable enough for access. That's one. There are no international cut-off values either, so that makes it very difficult to measure such a test result in a good way. A very practical reason is that blood collection is a reserved act on the basis of the BIG. So you're gonna need BIG-registered people to take that blood. Suppose hundreds of thousands of people would report for this, then you just can't man up. We just don't have those people. For another reason, I think people with a through infection are better off by now. At first, this was only true for people who had been tested at the GD and only for 180 days. What we are doing now is that this also applies to the commercial providers, so also to the people who have once been tested positive through Test for Access. We also extend the 180 days to a whole year. Well, that does make me think that we're better at serving the people who want a recovery certificate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u487	I agree with the Minister. We can certainly see that progress. We are also very pleased that it has been extended from six months to one year. It's just that it's not just me doing the corona pass. As I pointed out in my contribution, we also think that these are very important dates to have, just when we are seeing shifting figures and we are a little less in a luxury position than when this OMT advice came. If we're going to send in fireplaces, I think this is very important. We have just heard a number of things about regional policy. If we want to know where the biggest problem cases are and how we can get as much of the last few percent vaccination rate as possible, then it is very important to know where the gaps in immunity are, including in natural immunity. So we can look at which vaccinees the immunity has gone too far, so that we can use that booster shot more effectively. It's not just about getting people back to the pub. That's nice, and I'll give it to everyone, fine. I am also concerned that we have the dates to deal with this crisis properly. Look at Sanquin. And look at the PIENTER study. There are very clear values used, among other things to donate antibodies. It seems very simple to me to just copy that. Of course, we don't have a lot of employees. I understand that, but can't we link this to the G.D.D.s that are currently vaccinating? I'd like to think a little more about possibilities and a little less about limitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u488	A few things. First of all, we are very much in agreement on this. Yes, we use this PIENTER study and the Sanquin data to determine a size: to what extent have people built up immunity? I mean immunity built up by vaccination and immunity built up by natural infection. Of course, we use them in all immunological estimates and all the epidemiological interventions that we have to prepare, given the state of accumulated immunity. All models of Jacco Wallinga contain exactly this kind of data to know what immunity we can count on. All these estimates are based on the PIENTER studies and the Sanquin studies. The point is that you say here: yes, but I also want to use it to see if people can get access. There are a number of things that are avenged, namely the reliability of the test and the complexity of the decrease. I can't ignore that. I cannot ignore both points. Although I had cans full of BIG-registered nurses. Hallelujah, that would have been fantastic. I don't have one, by the way. But if I did, the reliability issue wouldn't have been solved. That makes it not so much a question of not wanting to think creatively, but simply of: the test is not good enough and therefore practically not usable enough. Of course, we'll always be looking. If there are international examples to tackle this problem or to solve it in another way, I will report back to you. Then I say, Mrs Pouw-Verweij, I have solved it! But that's not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u489	That's what the Minister and I strongly disagree about. This has been applied in Israel. They seem to have managed to implement it in this way. There are also several European countries. I would like to mention Montenegro and Romania. I'm gonna go check it out. There were four of them. I'd rather have said Germany. I think the Minister was more inclined to implement it. I'm afraid that's not the case. But we're not the only ones in this. I think we can look beyond just our neighbors. And I refer to a country like Israel, which is really moving ahead of us, including in terms of vaccination rates. If we're allowed to look at a guide country, it's Israel. It is therefore applied abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u490	In terms of vaccination rates, I would certainly not call Israel a guide country, because we are really percentage higher. But of course it's interesting to look at. I just don't know the Israeli example. I know that within the European Union, different countries have this same quest. There too, the various groups of JA21 seem to be screaming in the parliaments to make this possible. So all European countries are looking for this, but I do not know of a European example that has already proved successful in adapting it. I have to check the Israeli example. Let's check it out. I'm telling you. If it's exciting, I'll call in again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u491	I'd like to remind the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u492	Then I'm going to the next block. That's about the corona tickets. A lot has already been exchanged on this, so I can be relatively brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u493	Exactly, I wanted to ask the Minister not to repeat what the Prime Minister has already done. This also applies to the next issue on care scaling. The Prime Minister has already said enough about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u494	Sure. The Minister of All Affairs has already dealt with far too much, but with that he was nice and complete. There was a question about effectiveness. What exactly is the effectiveness of these corona tickets? Questions have been asked about this by Mrs Kuik, Mrs Westerveld, Mrs Bikker and Mr Omtzigt. I would like to give an answer along four lines: on the basis of what the OMT says about it, on the basis of what the field labs have said about it and on the basis of international investigations. And what do we want to know about that ourselves? Of course, we share the need, especially as the use increases and you broaden the use, to know to what extent it actually helps us. 'Cause what's in it for? It helps not so much to reduce infections, but to reduce the rate of spread. That's actually the purpose of it. I come first to what the OMT says in the 126th opinion on this effectiveness: "The CTB makes an important contribution to reducing the risk of infection during events. The CTB may not completely eliminate the chance that an infected person is present at an event. Calculations show that the likelihood of someone carrying the infectious virus and thus potentially contagious to others is still twice the probability that a fully vaccinated person will carry the virus even after a negative antigen rapid test." Where does the OMT get that from? That has everything to do with the effectiveness studies on vaccination I just mentioned on the block of vaccination. Against hospitalization, the vaccine works super well anyway. Against infection, a vaccine taken on average works with an efficacy of about 75%, and against infection, against transmission, against transmission with an efficacy of 50% to 63%. This means that in people who have been vaccinated and come in via a CTB, in a very large group where everyone has been vaccinated, the risk of spreading is not zero, but very much less than among a group of unvaccinated, untested people. We have also said in the legislation that you actually want there to be an alternative to vaccination, with safe access. You might as well do that, then considered, by allowing those corona admissions also for negative tested people, in addition to vaccination and recovery. They do run a better chance, says the OMT, of walking out again with an infection. But because they have been tested negative and because you don't take too long to test, they have a reduced chance of bringing the virus in and, in particular, putting the other unvaccinated people at risk, but also slightly, albeit to a much lesser extent, for vaccinated people. In short, does it reduce the risk to zero? That's what the OMT says: no, definitely not. Does it reduce the risk of spreading? Yeah, I do. It thus reduces the speed at which the spread can take place. Thus we can be faithful to what was once intended when working with the corona tickets, namely that you can make more possible through them. You can get back together in large groups. Mrs De Vries recalled that, and that is how it happened. I remember Mrs Westerveld stressing that at the time. Then I thought, "Now she's thinking way ahead." In the spring she said: maybe we will need it again in the autumn if you only want to come to the choice later to close things again. You don't want that at some point when most of the population is vaccinated. You're right. That's what the OMT says about it. Then the proceeds from the field labs. The field labs are of course kept in another situation, in which there were still many fewer people vaccinated. So you can't compare those confidence figures one-on-one. The virus circulation was also at other levels. Sometimes it was much higher, but some field labs took place when the virus circulation was much lower. On this point, Mr Omtzigt makes a very good point: the question of whether you can safely use corona tickets for an event must always be answered in the light of the prevalence. With a high prevalence, the residual risk following the use of the corona access card is, of course, significantly higher than with a low prevalence. That's why, despite using corona tickets, you still have to say: the risk is not zero. The residual risk increases when the prevalence increases. It may also mean that, despite being able to use those corona tickets now, in the event that the virus circulation would increase enormously, you still have to take a number of group size limiting measures at some point. Then international. In many European countries a form of CTB has been introduced, in shops, in activities; mandatory in France and in Austria, in Denmark, in many European countries. Mr Paternotte can always give an exhaustive overview. In many of those countries, you see that the same questions play. You're also trying to answer the same questions. They're all pretty hard to answer after all. You cannot create a perfectly equivalent situation in which you use the corona ticket for the same type of activity and the same composition of the group in one room and not in the other room. It would almost be an unethical experiment, because in the second room you will be exposing people to a risk that could also cause them serious damage. Well, that kind of research is kind of hard to do. However, in Germany, for example, 2G has been looked at, where 2G is safer than 3G. If you're just sitting together in a club with vaccinated and cured people, it's just always safer than with unvaccinated people who come in negative-tested because, as the OMT calculates, unvaccinated people still have twice as much residual risk as vaccinated people, which, of course, depends on the composition of such a group. That type of research is therefore international, but that does not mean that we are completely out of it. So what would I like to do myself? As I said, the comparative study runs counter to its ethical limits. The longer the CTB is deployed, more and more data will become available in the coming period. We can take advantage of that. On the basis of this data and its analysis, we can make more and more firm statements about the effectiveness of the corona access tickets, and also about their border, so where they are no longer safe enough to be able to use. We will continue to monitor the effectiveness of the use of the CTBs nationally and internationally. The results of all kinds of scientific articles will also be taken into account in the decision-making process. We are convinced, on the basis of what the OMT provides, that what we know about the effectiveness of vaccination, is an effective tool to reduce the rate of spread if the prevalence is not too high. But I will talk to RIVM and other research institutes about a possible design in which we could learn more about the effectiveness of the CTBs, for example in a controlled setting such as the field labs. In view of the current situation, we would also like to broaden the use of corona tickets. We do this on the basis of the advice of the Outbreak Management Team. We intend to start two legislative processes. We do not want to wait for the legislative process to start, but we do not want to decide on the way in which we intend to shape it, the measures we intend to take with regard to the broadening of the corona access tickets, except after further weighing. And legislative proposals because this requires a change of law. Of course, we will first discuss with the Chamber before they can actually enter. In this debate on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, you are also in the process of determining, as a co-legislator, how these measures might actually look. In the first legislative process, we want to broaden to non-essential retail and non-essential services such as CTB-related sectors. You can't do that now on the basis of the law, when you might want to. Wherever you use it in the museums, you might want to use it in the IKEA. That is simply not possible under the law. So that's what we want to broaden. I expect to be able to present that emergency bill to your Chamber next Friday. The weighing moment of Friday 12 November is also aimed at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u495	There is an interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u496	I hope this doesn't go away from my interruptions. I just asked Prime Minister Mark Rutte a few questions about proportionality. I referred to the 126th OMT opinion, which refers to that study of TU Delft that I have in my hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u497	Yes. There is indeed a question of effectiveness being answered and we must answer the question of proportionality. The effectiveness question has been answered by the OMT. The OMT says: what is actually the most effective is using only corona tickets for vaccinees and restorers, i.e. 2G (vaccined or cured). According to the OMT, that's the safest thing to do. Next best is the use of the corona pass for people who have been vaccinated, cured or tested, but that you ask everyone on top of that, just before they step in, to get tested again. That's next best. What's okay after that, but not as good and not as safe as the first option, is 3G. That's the ranking the OMT puts in on the basis of that Delft study. The OMT understands that given this situation there is for 3G support and also a legal basis. We also have to deal with proportionality. Given the current situation, we have considered 3G-corona access cards to be the most appropriate. That's the proportionality weighting. The effectiveness ranking has made the OMT partly based on the Delft research. We need to make the proportionality weighting here. There are a lot of reasons to want 3G much more than 2G. We have said that someday there may be a reason to want to opt for 2G, but that is if the alternative to working with 2G corona access cards is much worse: it goes to closure. Then perhaps the choice falls this way again. We're just not there yet, so we shouldn't make that choice now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u498	The dilemma is that this report is not a practical study and also contains outdated information. That's what I just mentioned in my speech. With regard to transmission, for example, this report is based on a 60% protection rate, while this morning we heard 50% and a recent study by Oxford suggests that the delta variant is now 40%. So it's out-of-date information. Even if the information in this report were all up-to-date, you can still read from this report that testing everyone is a lot safer than that mix between vaccinees and people who have been tested on which the corona pass is based. So my dilemma is that I find it very difficult. The OMT says in its opinions that it is uncertain exactly what the effects are. What we know is based on an older practice study. It also contains a number of data that are no longer accurate at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u499	We need to separate a few things. First of all, the question is to what extent corona tickets at all as a measure in a certain prevalence rate contribute to inhibiting the spread of the virus. It's really hard to put a size on that. We just don't know enough. I'd like to know more about that, too. That's just what we're gonna learn with each other. That's one thing. Two: what is the most effective design of the ranking? It doesn't really change, not even on the basis of new research results. We know what the effectiveness of vaccination is, what vaccination means to protect against hospitalisation and what vaccination means to protect against infection, but also what vaccination means to protect against transfer. Even though these numbers are lower in some studies, that is without prejudice to the fact that it always protects very much better than entering unvaccinated. As far as the mix is concerned, you're right. When you step in a mix, so vaccinated, cured and unvaccinated but tested negative, it is always the unvaccinated negative tested ones that are most at risk in that combination. You and the OMT ask how you could make that safer. Well, then, by testing everyone. This is, of course, extremely burdensome in its implementation and therefore not necessarily proportional at the moment. It could get more proportional again if you needed 2G as an alternative. But there is a great deal to be done in the implementation and for other reasons. I think a lot of people would think: hey, but I've already been vaccinated; why would it be necessary for me to get tested on top of that before I finally get to go to that restaurant? So I can't see that that's actually going to happen. Apart from that, you're right that 2G in the ranking is the safest. If you go in with a mix with 3G, it is safer to do so on top of that than not to do so, but because that is quite a performance job and has a lot of other objections, 3G is a bit less safe, but a slightly more proportional alternative compared to 2G.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u500	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u501	Testing everyone is a lot safer, but the point of my whole speech is this. In the spring we talked about the Temporary Law Test Certificates. We debated this for 11 hours in the House of Representatives. There were a very thick pack of pieces and an opinion from the Council of State. It was then debated for eight hours in the First Chamber. That was about test evidence. We're talking about the tickets now. We haven't had such a legal process about that. In the Test Certificate Act, the test certificates have become the basis of an amendment of D66 admission certificates which takes such measures. I wonder now: what did we agree to in the spring? You had the Law Testimonials. That's what those corona tickets are now. In the meantime, reality has changed. With regard to transmission and the delta variant, a number of things have become very different. That is what the cabinet wants to expand further without having had major field labs or major investigations, without having been investigated in practice. Then I wonder: is that proportional and how can we, as a Chamber, investigate this properly? In practice, no major scientific studies have been carried out, but it is already being considered to ask for this in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u502	Very clear. The law we dealt with this spring is the law that made the corona tickets possible. That's just the whole legislative process. There are three ways to provide the corona admission certificate: through vaccination, through a test or no cure certificate. Those three possibilities give you the right of access. That's the legal basis for using it. The weighting of proportionality is made every time you take measures. So given the moment you're in, given the vaccination rate, given the risk of new infections and new hospitalizations and given the prevalence of the virus, you have to make that proportional weighting. With a very low prevalence, it's best to let go of those 1.5 meters without a corona pass. In a lot of settings you might only do it in very large groups. That's what we discussed back then. I remember when you said, "Watch out for the fall." You might end up in a situation where you actually need those corona tickets to close later. That would also be very nice, because you can come together in larger groups in a safe way for longer. For example, the application of the corona access cards may have a different weighting of proportionality. On the legal side. With regard to its substantive effectiveness, there has been no change in the ranking of the effectiveness of the different forms of design that you could choose on the basis of a single research from time to time. The vaccine efficacy against infection is 75%. It doesn't matter very much whether that's 74% or 76%. It protects between 50% to 63% against transfer, and that's a turnaround. If you want to measure the result of the effectiveness of that type of protection in a larger group, you have to pay the price of protection against infection and protection against transfer. Of course, this is always more effective than not being vaccinated with a negative test going in. That is what led Germany to say: we can choose to keep the nightclubs closed or open them, but with 2G. If it is the choice between close or 2G, they have said in Germany that they find it proportional. If the choice could have been 3G, they probably wouldn't have found it proportional. There wasn't that choice for a while. This is how you have to make that balance every time, given the state of that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u503	Thank you. We still have a few topics to discuss. I appreciate his comprehensive response and response, but I really want to ask the Minister to conclude within ten minutes so that the Minister of Justice and Security can also get the stage. So I'll give you ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u504	He's looking forward to it. Mrs Bikker asked whether the legal pathways could be used regionally. Yes, some measures do indeed. And some measures do not. Regional deployment is already possible, but we are still practicing a little on the rationalization of it. Where would you want to do that, and what type of measures would be proportionate to use regionally if you did not want to use them nationally? You will probably choose areas where the risk and therefore the need for protection is greatest. What areas are these? You could then take areas with a combination of a low vaccination rate, a high level of infection, a high number of hospitalizations and, for example, a higher viral presence in the sewer water. We're looking at how you could figure that out. Then there is the question: what measures would you consider justified in these regions on top of the national package? Could the use of the measure for retailing be a regional measure? Opponents will explain that there will be a leakage effect and a waterbed effect. Proponents will explain that at least you will not have to apply that measure in those areas where it is not necessary at all. That is how we will come to a choice in this weighting. We also involve this in the weighing moment on 12 November. Then there is the legislative process that follows for all the measures you want to take in the labour situation. That's a harder legal process. This requires much more consultation with the parties and we cannot introduce these measures on the 12th as well. We will take a little more time for this, also in order to allow more consultation with the consultative parties and with the sector. I shall, of course, go along with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. Then the regional dashboard. This is already at the level of the security region and in many cases we can also provide figures at the level of the municipalities, for example the number of hospitalisations per 100,000 inhabitants or the vaccination rate etc. We can regionalize that completely. So that regional dashboard's already there. The art is, of course, to take that regional package of measures. The question of proportionality must be properly answered when working with CTBs at work. That's right. You've got to do a really good job of that. There's a lot of gradations in that too. You've got the C.T.B. sectors. You have the non-CTB sectors, the care, for example. That is all subject to different considerations. For sectors subject to CTB, you would like to make it mandatory. Not in all the other work situations. I sometimes hear about Italian conditions and that your staff would run away because you use those corona tickets, but that is not the case, because we want to make it optionally available. So we want to give the power, but we do not want to impose the obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u505	Still, back to the regional dashboard and to the question when you are using what measure. The Minister may have just tucked it away, but this question is pretty clear, so that's okay. I would be so sorry if that dashboard was only marked by the need, the bans and the new regional legislative measures which are far-reaching. If it is necessary, it is necessary and then I stand behind it, provided it is proportionate and well tested. But, frankly, what I think is most important is that we feel a responsibility with each other and that, for example, the mayors say that they are talking to leaders, entrepreneurs, catering entrepreneurs and anyone else when they see a local increase. That is precisely to prevent us from getting into this situation. We had a meeting this morning with the Chairman of the Security Council. I just see there's still a profit to be made. I would like to ask the Minister how we can help the mayors to take that position more. The Minister may, from his point of view, call it the principle of subsidiarity, or sovereignty in his own circle if he is more Protestant. But how can we strengthen that? Because then we have society's own initiative, rather than new measures and expansion of things, which make a lot of people a little sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u506	I understand, but I'm afraid it's not or-or. We need to see if we can come to a regional logic in order to adopt additional measures perhaps more proportionate than national ones at once. That's one. Two. Everything we do at a low vaccination rate and a high level of infection to keep it safer, everything we do in the context of the low-threshold and fine-meshed vaccination and testing is actually gonna get on top of it. Of course, that's what you have to do anyway. That's no regret, in bad Dutch. You have to do that anyway, and only when it is really necessary do you really have to take additional measures, which are again restrictive. Of course you want to stay away from that as long as possible, but it may be necessary at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u507	But still, before you know it... If they're needed, I won't put those measures in the balance. But above all, I want mayors at the moment not to think that they should wait until the measures are necessary. I want us to get a lot more of that action, including in society. I also see around me and to myself: before you know it, you forget to test regularly, because things are going well. Next thing you know, you'll be a little more lax with ventilation or whatever. That is where I think we can really make another move. We can keep each other sharper and avoid measures when we're on time. I think the mayors can play a good role in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u508	I couldn't agree more. Let us link what we are doing now, such as the low-threshold pricking and testing, close to the neighbourhood, especially in the neighbourhoods where it is most needed, to a regional dashboard, a regional logic where it needs to be added. Let us let the local parties work as closely as possible on the neighbourhood, in the capillaries of the district. Sure, I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u509	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u510	I was just having a discussion with the Prime Minister about working at home. He said: we have to do it this way, because employers find it difficult and they think it is important that people come to work anyway. Now it is again about employers, namely the admissions to work. We are absolutely not in favour of this. I also find it very strange that we are about to have the situation where one employer says that employees should have a corona admission certificate and the other employer says that they do not have to. Isn't that a very strange way of dealing with the crisis and fighting the virus? We're not gonna put that down on an employer's individual consideration, are we? It's like working at home. You have to have a plan, a strategy, how you're gonna handle it? I would like to ask the Minister why he chooses to do so at all, if he himself states that he does not actually have good proof that those corona tickets are effective. Why does he choose to do that? And if you choose to do that, you won't let the individual employers decide whether it's wise or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u511	I don't think it's okay to turn it around now and say: we don't have any proof of it at all, so why do we actually choose it? Of course it isn't. You know very well what the effectiveness of vaccination is. That's why you know that working with corona access cards, which at least makes vaccinees, people who are cured and people who are tested negative can enter, makes for a safer setting than: everything on a pawn and just look. So at least you know it's safer. You don't know how much it actually reduces the spread of the virus, but you do know it's safer. That's one. Two. Why would you possibly need that in the workplace? To make work situations safer. It is, moreover, on the advice of the OMT that it should be made available optionally. There are a lot of ways you can do that. You can all go in with a mouth cap on, you can keep a distance of 1.5 meters, or you can decide not to come to work at all. It's possible. But the homework advice that we are giving now is: stay home at least half the time, because that already helps a lot. But it is not possible in all companies and in all industries. However, the employer is obliged to opt for a safe work situation. We now see that a number of employers say: as a measure for this safe working situation, we would really like to have the possibility of applying these corona tickets. It's just that we can't do that right now, on the basis of the law. You can't do that. It is a form of data sharing that you really should want to use consciously, a possibility that you should want to create consciously. We want to do that, optionally, not mandatory. We want to do that for most sectors. Except, of course, for the sectors subject to CTB, but for the rest of the sectors we want to make this available on an optional basis. If an employer, in consultation with his employees, comes up with other measures leading to a safe workplace, fine. Then do it. But if they come to the conclusion: we actually think that the corona admission ticket is a pleasant tool to use, then we want to make it possible. That's the state of mind right now. I understand all the hooks and eyes attached to them. This is rather complicated legislation. That is why I do not promise that a proposal can be made to the Chamber by the end of next week. We have good discussions on this, of course with employers and employees, but also with all kinds of consultative parties. We will consult the AP, the College of Human Rights et cetera, in order to be able to submit a good legislative proposal to the Chamber. Not all the buttons that that point has been cut. On the contrary, we still have a lot of thinking and research to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u512	I'm gonna wait for the minister to finish his paperwork. Mr. Chairman. Since May, so for the past six months, there has been a significant excess mortality. More than 5,000 people have died than in recent years. That can't be because of corona, because there are 1,200 registered coronados. So there are over 4,500 people left that we cannot explain. There hasn't been a heat wave. What is the Minister of Health's explanation for this excess mortality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u513	I heard what you said about this in the first term. Of course, what you have to say about excess mortality is that politicians should not do the calculations for that. We really must leave that to statisticians. Those excess mortality rates indicate that there has been a lot of excess mortality, unfortunately, due to corona. We should not want to reduce or trivialise this, in order to deny the seriousness of the virus. We shouldn't do that. We need to see the figures as they are and leave it to statisticians to make statements about them. Then we cannot avoid the fact that the excess mortality from corona is simply high, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u514	So that really doesn't have anything to do with my question. I'm talking about the last six months. Since 1 May of this year until now, there has been excess mortality. That excess mortality is not due to corona, because if we remove the coronados, there is still significant excess mortality. It concerns many thousands of people. That can't be due to a heat wave either, because there hasn't been a heat wave this summer. What is the explanation given by the Minister of Health for this excess mortality?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u515	Mr Baudet now chooses a cut out of the figures and asks me for statements that are really up to statisticians. I would like to promise that we will send everything that the CBS says about over-death mortality and the explanation for it and everything RIVM says about it in a next letter to Mr Baudet. It is the right of a Member of Parliament to obtain that information. But it's really up to statisticians to make that statement and not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u516	Just now, the Minister of Health did make a statement about death, namely that he has certain theories and that it would have something to do with corona. So he's definitely willing to interpret data. But now he's diving a little bit. But what he keeps maneuvering around, the big elephant, are the side effects, the vaccine kills. These side effects are significant: chronic inflammation of the heart muscle in young people. The European Adverse Reaction Agency found that 15 out of 100,000 young people developed chronic inflammation of the heart muscle as a result of vaccination. The US Adverse Reaction Registration Agency found that 16 out of 100,000 young people developed chronic inflammation as a result of vaccination. How does he respond to that? The risk of developing chronic inflammation is therefore a factor of 1,000 greater than the risk of getting something serious due to corona. Respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u517	First of all about the side effects. We've had Lareb for years. All countries working together in the European Union have an ADR institute that registers adverse reactions. Together, you come to the registration of side effects, with the conclusion that it is always up to the Health Council in the Netherlands.Every country has a health council... and to the EEA, the European Medicines Agency, is to make statements about its effectiveness and the utility-risk ratio. That's very complex work. The benefit-risk ratio for corona vaccines is positive on all fronts. Especially in the beginning we were hyperaltered to intervene immediately, where a side effect occurred that we did not yet know enough about. We have also had many debates on this issue. There was also a lot of criticism. But we have all done so to maintain trust in the vaccine and to achieve the highest possible vaccination rate. In short, the registration of side effects and also the conclusions that you need to link to them, we are watching hyperalert. That's one. Two. For example, what should you say about pericarditis or myocardiitis, inflammation of the pericardium or inflammation of the heart muscle? We know that the chances of getting that are quite present, but not great, if you get a virus infection. Often virus infection is the main reason, the main background, of getting pericarditis or myocardiitis. But it also happens as a side effect, precisely from vaccination. This is involved in the utility risk ratio assessed by the EEA. In fact, in all cases this leads to the conclusion that this does not outweigh the huge benefit in actually all age groups, so the hugely positive ratio of the utility-risk distribution for all age groups. Of course, young people have looked very closely at this because young people, on their own and on average, do not have such a high risk of a serious infection due to corona and, for example, this side effect of pericarditis or myocardiitis was present. The Health Council, as well as the EEA, considered that the risk of suffering from serious infections was not so great, but in the last year of school some 100 pupils were in hospital. Pericarditis or myocardiitis is more common with the virus itself than with the vaccine. It usually passes by itself and very rarely leads to a serious complication. In short, the utility-risk ratio is positive. One more point, because I think that is important. People have a lot of questions. They put it here, and we'll answer it. That's only good. That is what debates are for, and there are experts to show us the way on that point. What I do have a lot of trouble with is that this place, the most important place throughout the Netherlands, where you have a stage to create beautiful things or to be very critical towards the cabinet, is used to spread misinformation. We know that misinformation leads to doubts, that doubts lead to a postponement of vaccination and that, not rarely and also at the moment, there are people in hospitals, because of doubts and because of information that apert is incorrect, but which has come to them via the Internet. This leads to the delay of a shot, to illness and, unfortunately, to hospitalizations. In short, fake news is dangerous. That's really very dangerous. That's why I have so much trouble with this type of question. Continuously trivializing the severity of the virus and continuously suspecting vaccines leads to doubt. Doubt leads to delay of vaccination. Delaying vaccination leads to health damage. In short, we just shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u518	Thank you. Your last interruption, Mr. Baudet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u519	We have the same concerns about fake news. You think I should not say the wrong things there, and I think you should not say the wrong things there. The promotion of this vaccination therefore leads to a lot of health damage in people, a lot of hospitalisations and a lot of people suffering from chronic problems or dying from that vaccination. The whole end of the Minister's answer conceals his answer to my actual question. In fact, he said: young people are more likely to get something from corona and the utility risk analysis is positive for young people compared to taking vaccines. But that sum doesn't come out at all: 15 out of 100,000 people. There is no question that such numbers of young people would suffer permanent damage due to corona. That's just really shit. So who's spreading fake news? These are just the facts. These are the facts that have been brought out by European and American side-effects registration agencies. You can be very moralistic here that you shouldn't spread fake news, but you distribute fake news. You're chasing people with a hoodie in the reeds. You promote those vaccines that have terrible side effects for a lot of people and that are not effective in stopping an infection. You're also blocking primary hospital records. I'm about to retable motions with those pro-forma concerns. I'm very curious to hear what you're saying about that. We want to see all the data. But look at the United Kingdom: 85% of the coronados are double vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u520	I'm going to highlight it again. The worst contribution you could make in this room, in that place, is to spread fake news. Fake news is dangerous. Fake news isn't innocent. Fake news is dangerous and leads to doubt in people. Doubt leads to not wanting to take a vaccine, because somewhere in a dark corner of the Internet there was information that caused people to doubt. That leads to people entering the hospital unnecessarily. This leads to health damage, and you must take care of it. You shouldn't be in on that. You shouldn't be spreading fake news. That's not your job. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u521	Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u522	History will judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u523	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u524	Then the ic scale. A great deal has already been said about this. I do not think I need to have the political debates on this anymore. I may have to answer a number of questions, namely how the scaling up is going to work. I've asked LNAZ for a review of the recovery plan. The LNAZ has discussed this with many parties. When I asked for a review of that plan, I said myself: up to 1,700 beds stretches a lot. That also demands incredibly much scaling up of other concerns. I don't think we should want that at this stage. That is not necessary at this stage either. That is not likely, not even with all the curves of Jaap van Dissel and the medians of those curves that Mrs Kuik mentioned. The peak is far too high, but fortunately the height of the peak as now predicted is about the height of last winter's valley. That's how sober we have to be together. We've shown them, the care has shown them that they can. So the 1,700 is no longer a real expectation. That won't be necessary anymore. Probably, I say. And so we asked to do 1,350. That is not something the care does like or what the care does easily, but they have laid down the plan to do so. If we scale up to that 1,350, we've also agreed that from 1,150 onwards, patients are going to Germany. One question was whether the agreement with North Rhine-Westphalia still stands. Yeah, that deal with North Rhine-Westphalia still stands. From 1,150 patients are driven to Germany. This also gives us a little more space and a little more capacity, depending on the number of patients that could be able to do so. When scaling up to 1.350 we have to realize that a doctor or nurse can really only be in one place at a time. So no scaling-up is without consequences. That always means scaling down other concerns. That's inevitable. The question I have asked is also: could it help to achieve concentrated, centered covid capacity? That is also a bit of the suggestion made by Mr Girbes in Amsterdam. Would that be possible? I asked, of course, because I would feel for separate departments and perhaps even separate hospitals. That is where you are offering concentrated covid care, so that the rest of the care is less burdened and the accessibility of it is also less burdened by covid care. But after a long discussion with the V&VN and with the NIVC, the ic bosses, the hospitals have said: we're not going to do that now, because it would pull too much capacity out of the other hospitals if you did that now. It is therefore inevitable that this will also lead to scaling down. That's why we shouldn't do it now. Let us opt for scaling up to 1,350, according to the plan and according to the revision of that plan. Again, from 1,150 onwards, that means really scaling down care that you would really like to keep going. Furthermore, we are going to drive patients to Germany again. I did say to the LNAZ: imagine that what we all hope will not happen is going to happen, that that wave will continue. Then I can't help but ask you the question again. That question is: see if you can get to that concentrated capacity from that 1,350. This can be done in a number of regions, for example where the crowds are greatest. Well, I also hear the suggestions that Armand Girbes makes, for example. I'm thinking, "Keep thinking about that." That's what I told the LNAZ. Keep thinking about: if we needed it by that time, how could we do that? At the moment, I have to say that the care field does not itself choose to do so. Then there is Mrs Kuik's question: could we do more to hold on to people or even to seduce them to work more? I think "facilitate" might be a better word. Could we facilitate them in such a way that they still want to do these extra services or that they want to temporarily do a contract extension? Indeed, Mr Girbes has put forward proposals for this. Of that I think: yes, it would of course be fantastic if you could provide additional capacity in that way. If you could, I don't know, for example, organize childcare in the hospital, so that it all gets much more practical and easier, could that help seduce people to work longer? I have read what has been said about it from Amsterdam. I would like to talk about this, because I think we should do the care of the staff if that could help relieve the pressure on care or increase capacity further. Is there a financial problem at the moment? Well, I don't think so. If you look at the additional costs that the hospitals have and the 500 million we have made available to increase capacity, I would think that there is quite a bit of budget available. So I don't think there's really a financial problem. If there are creative ideas that are not being implemented for any reason, I would think: go, get to work. Let's do it. So I'd like to start the conversation to see what could possibly be extra possible there. I think most of the questions about ic-capacity have actually been answered by the mp. I still have a few questions to ask. This concerns, for example, the sale of antigen tests. It was the SP who asked a question about that. Sorry, not about selling it! It was about the antigen tests that had to be destroyed because they were over the expiration date. Look, we have, of course, created a huge amount of supplies on all fronts. These are professional tests, so for professionally guided self-takes. These are professional antigen tests and therefore no tests you could use yourself. Why did we buy such large numbers? Because we might do a lot of tests for access throughout the summer and because we might have to test a lot for holidays. This has all turned out to be a little less necessary for a number of reasons, namely because people were highly vaccinated and for this reason we have had to do fewer holiday tests and because we have done a lot less tests for access. In short, we do have leftover. If we had had exact enough, we probably wouldn't have bought in properly. So this is also just the result of the tests we've had to buy in. There's something else going on right now, and I think that's much more important. Those are the tests that you could also use for self-collection. We also have quite a few of them lying there. I have heard what Mrs Westerveld has said and what Mrs Bikker and Mrs Kuik have said about further lowering the threshold for self-testing. And yes, of course, we are going to make a good plan to make sure that we have put those tests in a useful way before the date expires. Mr Hijink can count on that. The same applies to the mouth caps. Also for the mouth caps, if we can get rid of them in a useful way, we will of course get rid of them. I don't think market distortion is such an interesting argument at all. I just don't feel like losing court cases and then having to pay damages to parties who, in my opinion, had already made enough money from this crisis. In short, I don't feel like it. That's why I think we should put our stuff away wisely. But I have no need to keep Egypt's grain barns filled longer than strictly necessary. We'll keep an iron supply, we've always said that, but get rid of that stuff. We donate them, by the way, to prevent you from running out of time. Mr. Chairman. I think that has given me the most important questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u525	Thank you. I see another interruption by Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u526	I would like to ask the Minister whether he may have lost the VVD and CPB folder, because I have asked four questions that have not yet been answered. I don't mean to be a pain in the ass, but I'm not putting them up for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u527	No. I understand. Yeah, here's something in the pile! That folder doesn't exist, but there are a number of questions I haven't answered yet. I feel the chairman's glowing eyes in my back, or actually on the side...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u528	I was more concerned with the duration of the answers than with the fact that you should not answer questions. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u529	I understand. I'm just rushing and browsing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u530	I also see Mrs Van Esch standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u531	I have two more questions here. I hope that's covering for those four. Mrs De Vries asked if the Minister could anticipate the extension of the 180-day recovery certificate and the validity of the one-year vaccination certificate. Oh, my God. What we can do in the Netherlands is extend the duration. I promised that to Mr Van Haga. We've set that in motion now. I thought it would take two weeks before it was actually finished, but we have therefore started to see the extension take place. In addition, add the commercial tests and not just the GMD tests. I think that for a lot of people who have been through the infection and have proof of that, it's just better and finer. And that helps. Internationally, my commitment is that colleagues are going to do the same, because if they do not, the people who can use those 365 days with us, but only 180 days abroad, will have a problem at the border. I do not want that, so the commitment is to amend the Council recommendation. The Council recommendation will then amend the national agreements. That is my commitment internationally and that is how I anticipate it. Then there's the question why the green tick can't be checked on a positive test. This question is asked a lot and actually the answer is very simple: because there is no national database of issued QR codes that can automatically pass a red cross when another database shows that someone would have a positive test result. If we had, you would probably have thought: Ooh, that is very Chinese handling data, so to speak, that is very privacy-infringing, or at least potentially a break of security at that point. That is also exactly what we see with the Belgians, where there has been a huge data breach. We just don't want that. By the way, is this really bad? I don't think so, because someone who's been tested negative should just use their brains and not put another person at risk. Then you will say that not everyone does, but yes, that is how driving licences work. If you have a broken leg, you can't drive, but your license doesn't suddenly become invalid. That's how this works. These are the two questions that Mrs De Vries has left me. If I miss any questions right now, I'm really in a blind panic, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u532	I'd also have blind panic right now. I had asked another question about the group that cannot be vaccinated in relation to the corona access card and I had asked another question about care workers and employers and the corona access card. Maybe I can do an interruption about the CTB and travel right away. The first people had a vaccination at the beginning of this year. The moment those people travel after a year, that CTB is no longer valid. I think that is a problem, because at that time they can test nothing but to get another valid proof. I find that complicated to explain to people who have just been vaccinated. So I was wondering whether, in addition to the proof of recovery, we would also look at how we deal with the ordinary vaccination certificate for the future in Europe, so that it could be launched in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u533	Let me start with that. I can customize the corona tickets in the Netherlands myself. I can change the arrangements for that myself. I cannot, of course, adapt the European regulation or the European Council recommendation that Member States take their own national decisions. I can influence that as one of the 27. Many countries agree with us, but not everyone has yet. What we are going to do, of course, is to make a great deal of effort, because I want to avoid exactly what Mrs De Vries says. So that's absolutely true. Another thing we should avoid is that other Member States say: we only give CTB from the booster point of view. Of course, we shouldn't have that. No, the primary vaccination should be enough. That is my commitment at European level. There are also people who cannot be vaccinated, Mrs De Vries says. That's right. The number is only very much smaller than the number of people who say they belong to the group that cannot be vaccinated. But they're here. That is why the Bikker amendment was adopted in the course of the legal process, which I strongly advised against because of huge implementation issues. It turns out it is now. Indeed, it is very difficult to actually come up with a good regulation, and we are indeed making it clear from what point in time people are eligible for it. That has everything to do with people often thinking that they can't be vaccinated when they can. As far as allergic reactions are concerned, we have a lot of allergic reactions to ensure that people with an allergic reaction, if necessary under anesthesia, with a day treatment or whatever, can still get that shot if they want it. It is also possible to eventually provide that QR code if all alternatives of testing and vaccination are really not possible. For that we have made all the people who have come to us, sometimes through MPs but often through umbrella organisations because they have approached us, part of the pilot that I do first to work out this whole work process before we can actually open it up to the rest. So what we want is that no one gets out of play by entering those corona tickets. Unable to test or not be able to vaccinate should not be a reason for ultimately not being able to obtain a corona pass. But not wanting, I can't do that much, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u534	I will give the floor to Mrs Bikker and then we will close with Mrs Van Esch. I think Mrs Van Esch has a different kind of question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u535	I can confirm it, because I've had happy people on the e-mail who could eventually go somewhere with their disabled son because that QR status is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u536	This proves that the amendment was worth pushing through after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u537	Absolutely. If only for that one, Minister. My question concerns the homeless. I also asked questions about this and did not receive an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u538	What we know, of course, is that homeless people are extra vulnerable. They are particularly vulnerable in many ways, but certainly also for this nasty virus. So we're doing everything we can to help corona patients. This is about very special vaccination campaigns and that is also about the booster campaign that we will have to focus on this group again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u539	I think it is a wonderful answer, but for the sake of time: this was not my question. My question was as follows. We go into winter and it goes over December 2021. I would be very sorry if, now that we want to keep the 1.5 meters in so many places in society, we would stop the good thing that we have done with homeless people in this Corona year in large cities where we also see that Corona is more housed. We certainly need to talk about structural things and things; that will have to be on a formation table. But I ask the Minister not to stop this programme now during this wave. That is my only question: make sure that we have no problem with that before winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u540	That is a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u541	By stopping the programme, Mrs Bikker, I think, means the solution that we have found in the last winter for the homeless in relation to corona, for example, to offer more space in the homeless shelter and so on? Yes, Mr Blokhuis is, of course, just working on that. If it will prove necessary to take that type of action again, we will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u542	Finally, Mrs Van Esch, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u543	I had once again asked questions about the current situation surrounding the avian influenza virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u544	Oh, oh, For that, I simply have to rely on the last letters you received from the Minister of LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u545	I was expecting that, so I had saved up my four interruptions for this moment. I know we talked about it last week. I know last week's answer, but last week's reality is catching up with us again this week. Even tonight we hear from two companies that have had to kill all their birds because of another two new outbreaks of the avian influenza virus. I know that it has been indicated that at the end of the year there would finally be a more extensive response to the Bekedam report. All we can see is that the situation is catching up with us. We see the situation in the Netherlands getting worse. Today Professor Chicken in the newspaper, or at RTL News, I have to say, indicated that the situation is getting more serious and also more dangerous for humans and animals. I will therefore repeat the questions I asked in the first term. Could this VWS minister not now take measures, including at least those which are now being closed, not have animals re-stocked, as the report also states, and look at the possibilities of stopping now from expanding poultry farms, given the risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u546	I often get this type of question, but these are really questions that belong in a debate with the Minister of Agriculture, because it is just about that portfolio and that policy area. I like to say that anyway. Yeah, there's a relationship. That relationship is about zoonotic diseases. That is why we have the Bekedam report. That says that the Netherlands can really prepare itself better and really do more to strengthen the approach of zoonoses. The cabinet gave an initial response to this. On that basis, you know that we are taking this report very seriously, and that we are also coming up with a policy response before the end of the year. This policy response is currently being worked on. That's what you're gonna get. Then there is the question of the current measures against holdings where avian influenza is detected. That's just a standard set of measures you take at the time to be effective in stopping further spread. That does mean just clearing the company. Does that also mean that there will be no more poultry farms in this time of year? No, it doesn't mean that, because that would really require a completely different type of decision. Does it mean that such a company can never fill its stable again? No, it doesn't mean that either. Of course it means that it stays empty for a while, because you really need to clear up and it really needs to stay empty for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u547	What I would like to point out is that there is indeed a responsibility for this VWS minister to ensure that we do not have a new pandemic. We see the risks coming. We also see that this virus has already projected on humans in China. We also see that the risk of this virus in the Netherlands lies mainly in poultry farming. It's just familiar. The Netherlands has on average a six-fold higher density of poultry holdings than other countries in Europe. Today Professor Chicken says again: the dangers for humans and animals must not be underestimated and we must also take them seriously. The only thing we can do about that is to drastically reduce that herd of poultry. I find it too easy to constantly point to LNV. That is now clearing up, but it is not responsible for preventing public health damage. That's what we're here for. That's why I'm standing here to prevent that. I maintain that I want to hear from this minister, and I do not keep hearing that; therefore, I am still standing here saying that he wants to prevent a new pandemic and that he will continue to report, including to the Ministry of LNV, that we must do everything we can to combat that avian influenza virus in the best possible ways, even here in the Netherlands. Those options are already there. We cannot wait until the end of December for the cabinet to give us another opinion on the Bekedam report. We know it's already happening. We must not wait for action to be taken. The risks are high.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u548	I'd still like to take some things apart. Mrs Van Esch rightly refers to the Bekedam report. This is because we too felt it necessary to look again at the approach to zoonoses and what we could do better in that regard. That's where we'll find each other, I guess. I just want to understand that I can't figure out how we're going to do that here for a moment, but that I really want to come up with a serious policy response at the end of the year, because it's a thorough report. That's one. Two is: our pandemic preparedness, as we call it, needs to be strengthened. We spent money at Princess' Day. That's what we're making a plan of action for, or actually a programme. We will come back to that at the end of the year. This will indeed have a link with the approach of zoonoses. Three is: how do you deal in the situation of an outbreak of avian influenza? There is simply a standard procedure for this and it is spacious. This applies as soon as you notice it, and then there are all kinds of other measures, transport restrictions and so on. That is exactly what the Minister for Agriculture is doing at the moment. Going further, whether an extension ban, an operating ban, a form of expropriation, you might hear that in Mrs Van Esch's words or add anything to it, seems to me to be a very out-of-the-hip policy. We shouldn't do that. Do we want to prevent zoonotic diseases? Of course. Can we do better than that? Sure, 'cause if I hadn't, that report wouldn't have been so thick. Would the cabinet like to work on that? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u549	Thank you. Mrs Van Esch, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u550	Finally, my final question on this subject. I am particularly interested in what this Minister himself is doing on this point. We know what the Minister of LNV is doing. But what does the VWS Ministry do when we see, hear, read and observe this? What's the VWS ministry doing right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u551	With regard to individual companies where avian influenza has broken out, the Minister of LNV has taken the initiative. With regard to the policy on zoonoses, we do so together. With regard to pandemic preparedness, the plan of approach, VWS is a move, but of course LNV will be connected, precisely because of the coincidence with agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u552	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u553	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u554	I would like to thank the VWS Minister very much. We're gonna do a quick clean-up, and then I'm gonna give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security. I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u555	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will go straight to the questions that have been asked, particularly by Mr Paternotte, Mr De Vries and Mr Van den Berg, about enforcement. Then I have answers to other questions from Mr Paternotte, including the safety of people who are threatened. Mr. Chairman. Since the start of the introduction of the corona access ticket, we have realised as a cabinet that we really have to make a great deal of effort in this regard on the triple as I always call it: respect by the citizen, control by the entrepreneur or organisation and enforcement by the government, by the municipality. That is why we agreed on a so-called enforcement framework for the introduction of the Corona Access Card with the Security Council. This enforcement framework was based on the following principles: focusing on risk-oriented and random intervention. In this risk-based intervention you can distinguish two categories. On the one hand, there are situations in which there will be more risk of contamination because of pressure, where there is a serious suspicion beforehand that the rules will not be complied with. In some cases this was the case, because it was stated in advance: we are not going to do so. Mr. Chairman. I have to help the municipalities when I said that we would make available EUR 45 million from the beginning of October for the three-month period that was then due. I would also like to stress that this was not necessarily about new boas and such, but about extra money to optimize it. I will have some creative examples of this later. The mayors started working on that. I must say that they have really taken a step forward. In recent days, however, as well as when the first IOS investigation came, which I come to, there have been critical noises about it, but I would like to remind you how much in Utrecht the mayor really put that city forward with an entrepreneur who refused to apply it and thus also bothered the companies next to him, who did want to apply it. That's what went to the judge. The judge said Utrecht was right. That has led to all sorts of ugly things, including threats. That's bad, very bad. But that's what we're really committed to. In Utrecht, I said, but in Nijmegen as well. I'd like to have said that here. I have said this to the people a number of times in the Security Council. In that first week it was quite tricky so let's be honest about that too, because there was really a bit of a moan about it. But best practices have also been developed. The mayors of Alkmaar and Breda I would like to highlight the mayor of Alkmaar, Mrs Schouten, for a moment the idea had developed to work with wristbands at central points in a busy, concentrated hospitality area. This has also happened in other cities, for example in The Hague. There is a busy hospitality area, for some reason very close to the House of Representatives, and also there is good work with those wristbands. Mr. Chairman. After a few weeks, in the Security Council of 18 October, in the evening, we recorded the intermediate position. There I discussed some of the findings. This also applies to the research of I&D Research for, I believe, EenVandaag. In that you can see that I have once again checked that indeed compliance and enforcement were mainly left behind in the catering industry, at least part of it, and the sports canteens. You saw, on the other hand, that it was really very high in theatres, cinemas and so on. The municipalities continued to work actively on this, focusing specifically on the places where it was left behind. Among other things, this was the provision by municipalities of, for example, supporters of sports canteens. I would also like to give an example of a good practice, a good practice, in Venlo. This municipality, from the security region, has been talking to 350 companies and associations to convince them that this is possible and to indicate to them how to use it. Rotterdam-Rijnmond has done something similar. Studies carried out in recent weeks show that the figures are improving and that the acceptance of the corona ticket among the people in the country is really increasing. We did say it could still be better. On Monday evening, the Security Council discussed it well again. We have really said to each other: extra effort in the sectors where compliance is lagging behind. We are going to do this together, because there is no point in blaming 'you had this' or 'I had that' in such a situation. Mr. Chairman. There really is a three-stroke enforcement of compliance control. So it also focuses on making people aware of it very well. A number of Members have also asked questions about communication. In Venlo, that has helped very well with those 350 companies. 349 of them have joined in putting posters on the companies, communicating about them and the like. One of them refused on principle. Mr. Chairman. I also had a conversation with the catering industry last Tuesday. As has often been the case in corona time, that was not a pleasant conversation anyway, because there are still certain restrictions on the catering industry. I couldn't say anything positive about that. However, I have made an urgent appeal to participate in the three-stroke and to call on Members to participate in the control section. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, I have agreed at least that I have proposed, and the mayors are happy to agree that we should periodically conduct a broader examination of compliance and control, so that we have a current view of where things are going well and where we need to focus our efforts. We are still talking about this with the GGD and also about exchanging good practices with each other. Enforcement is and remains the lock on the door. I have just said that we are continuing the risk-based approach in enforcement and then on a random basis. On enforcement, I would like to say that it is broader than merely imposing fines or penalty charges. Mr Hubert Bruls, Chairman of the Security Council, said this morning. I've been reading that report. Enforcement is also appealing, warning and coaching enforcement, because sometimes it just doesn't go quite as it should. Mr. Chairman. So much for the three strokes of compliance, control and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u556	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u557	Enforcement is the lock on the door; totally agree. I think it's really a challenge. Because I'm getting a continuous stream of messages, which say that corona admissions are valid, but that's not what I'm asked for at all. This is a lot from the big cities. Research by EenVandaag shows that one of the three restaurants doesn't ask for it. The minister rightly mentions the mayor of Utrecht, who intervened at Waku Waku and had to pay for it with threats. In other major cities, too, it was said that we maintain excesses. But even if an entrepreneur says he doesn't ask nine out of ten times for it at all, it turns out that nothing is actually being done. I'm not specifically concerned with those big cities. But I think you saw that image come into being and the polls that confirm it. What do you do as Minister of Justice when you see that things aren't going well at all? We have the corona pass as a security measure, but it hasn't gone well too often now. How did the Minister address those mayors? What has he done in the past month to ensure that enforcement is going in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u558	Because I am Minister of Justice and Security, not only of Justice, I did indeed become clear at that time that the three strokes of compliance, control and enforcement did not go well in certain places... Because we still have to focus on the problem that was there. It was mainly part of the catering industry and part of the sports canteens. I wrote to the mayors on that. As I said, I addressed them at the Security Council on Monday evening 18 October. There were mayors who said: you're right, we see that too, and we need to bet more on that. I was just sketching those first few weeks, but not to condone it all. But we must remind ourselves that in the beginning there was also some social resurrection. You have to overcome that with each other. I absolutely believe that we would be failing not only the mayors, but also their maintainers and municipal devices if we did not say that they were very committed to doing so. Again, we are seeing it improve. We have said that we are now really going to monitor compliance periodically through surveys, so that we can really say: wait a minute, people, there has to be more!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u559	Of course, I fully appreciate what the enforcers are doing, the work being done and the good examples that there are. I do not often have a debate with the Minister, but I have a feeling that it is a glorified support group in which the good examples are discussed. Enforcement is ultimately the lock on the door. Of course, that's the lock on the door. But then you must also show that enforcement and then it must also be tangible and visible that it is maintained. If I hear a mayor say in a programme that there have been zero fines in recent times, I still feel that society does not have the idea that it really is being maintained when it comes to it. Because that was in Friesland, the province where I live. I don't have the idea that all catering establishments there all maintain equally well through the CoronaCheck app.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u560	What's this support group? I don't know what they're referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u561	You explain something about a whole circuit around what has been agreed: we do a certain trichee and then discuss good examples and best practices with each other. That's all fine. I also think there are best practices. But I think it should eventually be palpable and visible that at some point there really is going to be going through, otherwise enforcement will not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u562	I think that that kind of screams about a "talking group" really do a lot of injustice. We have been discussing developments with the Security Council every week for a year and a half. I would like to invite Mrs De Vries to take a look at how solid the discussions are there. I admit, I grew up in the 1970s. That was the time of communes and in tailors sitting on dresses telling your thing. That's when we had talk groups. If I'm going to tell my older sisters that this is a support group, because they were quite hippie, I think they're laughing at me. I hear something about Indian dresses: exactly, everything else. That's why I went against it for a while. Because I understand very well what Mrs De Vries is saying. We're having some serious discussions about this. 'Cause there's still a couple of mayors thinking a different way. That was the case last Monday evening, as you were able to read in the media report. It's supposed to be in the Netherlands, too. That's how we're together. So they're not talking groups. We've had a lot of discussions. If, because of the fact that we are here in your house, I may be a little civilized about the letters I have sent, Mrs De Vries should not imagine that those letters were received with cheer, let alone by the mayors. There were also critical notes cracked in it. Let's talk about the fines. There's a complicated point. We saw in the summer of 2020 that the fines also went down to about zero. That was, for example, what I had to do at the time by explaining the behavioral unit and others was to do with the fact that at some point there were relaxations and there were less very strong visible standards in enforcement. It is not so much a question of individual fines. It is mainly about entrepreneurs who do not comply and who will be burdened with periodic penalty payments at some point after a warning. We agreed to keep a close eye on the statistics. Mr President, through you I say to Mrs de Vries: you can rest assured that we are not going to let it become a support group at all. We're going to see how things are going next Monday, because the first investigation will be on Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u563	Thank you. Mr Paternotte, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u564	The Minister invited Mrs De Vries to the Security Council, which is absolutely not a support group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u565	Come with me!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u566	Indeed, I had just agreed with Mrs De Vries that I could go as her date. We are sitting here at the end of a long debate. The Minister has been able to listen to two colleagues for a long time. We received a very long letter of 84 pages. Enforcement is the final piece. That remains true, also for the measures we are taking today. On enforcement, in those 84 pages, reference was made to the letter I have here from the Minister, but when I read it, I think: what is going to change? I read there's gonna be a radio campaign about mouth caps. There's gonna be an investigation into compliance. But what are we really going to notice about being different from enforcement over the last few weeks? What are the measures taken to that end? That's just not clear to me. I hope the Minister has a convincing story on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u567	No, there's not gonna be a compliance investigation. I have said that, from now on, every few weeks, we are going to look at compliance and monitoring and how that develops. That hasn't happened so far. With this we immediately monitor and say: wait a minute, things have to be done better. That's the first thing. The second is that I have embraced the mayors a little more and said: I have the 45 million for those three months. We've been one month. The money is, as it should be, spent on the security regions. But we really need to use it now. There are really very good practices visible from mayors and municipalities...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u568	There's a candy bag cracking in the prime minister's office. It's a little noisy in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u569	Unlucky youth eh, then you get that... but there are mayors and municipalities that have already done so. That's a second. The third is that I have really said to the mayors that people have been given warnings so far, but that I want to see very clear enforcement results in terms of penalty charges if entrepreneurs are still stubborn in completing the audit. That also responds to the point that Mrs De Vries asked. It is, of course, still a local competence, as it is called, but I think that we really have very clear agreements about this with each other. On these three points, I hope that Mr Paternotte and I will see real results over the next few weeks, perhaps when he comes to Mrs De Vries behind the moped to the Safety Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u570	Mrs De Vries, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u571	A moped... That's definitely part of hippie time, I guess. I agree with what Mr Paternotte says. I understand that you have called on the mayors to engage with local restaurants and sports associations in the short term. Of course, that's very good. I think this is a good step. The question is when we can hear back from what was agreed there and what actions have been launched. Can we also be kept informed of the benefits of enforcement? This is, of course, about compliance, but I would also be interested to see where any fines have been paid, in order to make that compliance more visible and sometimes also more palpable. That lock on the door must actually work eventually, if the other has not worked enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u572	Totally. The three strokes I'm naming must really be in place. I stress, however, that we should not make it huge. We've been able to see pretty soon... There was initially quite resistance in certain sectors. We then found that compliance, control and enforcement could be improved in two sectors. The rest of you are going really well. This means that mayors in a number of regions have immediately started to work. A number of others, as you have read in the media over the past week, have said out loud: we are going to pick it up better. In our system, we have a decentralised administration system. It is a good thing that we can reach agreements without any support group so that we can make a firm commitment to that three-step approach. Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte asked about the 45 million. I've said a few things about that. That is really given for the period that is about to end at the end of the year. We can therefore see how things stand and whether we should proceed with that. That is not the case at the moment. I have given a number of examples. I am not going to go into that in detail. I would really like to stress that I have said that from the beginning, it is possible to use it for an extra person who helps at a large diner or something. It is allowed to be used at the sports clubs for the many volunteers who do it. I would also like to say that I very much appreciate the fact that a large number of sports associations do take it up and actually do it with volunteers. I said you can use it to set up posts for wristbands, or for smartphones. So we really said, people, pick it up, and you get money for it. I have to think about Kamagurka, who said: I had a terrible childhood, my father drank and my mother ate. Some people apply that in practice. To make a long story short, I think it is important to Mr Paternotte and Mrs De Vries. I also really want to agree with your Chamber that I will keep you informed of the progress we are making with each other. By the way, you have also seen that we are using mystery guests. People thought that was very exciting, but that's just a very good remedy. This has been done by the University of Twente, in the context of a research we have done before. Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte calls for attention to be paid to something very alarming: caregivers and, by the way, scientists who are really affected in their safety. During this debate, I saw a very prominent member of the OMT on the social media who outlined how much private life is being greatly reduced. Yesterday we talked about the hooligans at football. This morning it was about people who are violent at demonstrations and who, as far as I am concerned, are not protesters but simply criminals. And now here, too. I'm just saying it out loud: it's really undermining and scandalous when you threaten and intimidate people who just do their job, who step forward in society and who in the media express how we should proceed. I have always said, including in the Security Council, that it is very important for OMT members to explain. It may not always have been the explanation I proposed to the Security Council shortly before, but it has been explained again. If you threaten or intimidate those people, we're gonna go into that really hard. I don't go into individual cases, because I also read the story of that doctor. I thought that was extremely nasty. I would like to say that this is being taken very seriously. I'm just saying, people are literally being held at home by the police. You have really seen a good example in the evening mosquitoes: we are not going to tolerate people in this difficult situation of corona, in which we as a society really try to get through it together, in this way sabotage things. Police and D.A. are looking very closely at this. It is up to the prosecution to decide whether or not to prosecute, but I would like to come back at a later stage to how that develops. I wasn't supposed to say it, but we give licks to people who do things like this. Mr. Chairman. So much for the small points I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u573	Thank you. Then we conclude with the Prime Minister, who would come back to a question about outdoor sports. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u574	Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to the question about sports outside. Of course, there was a good listen. Of course we're doing it together. I'm gonna have to say a few things. The OMT recommends extending that corona ticket for sports practice, especially in the field of indoor sports. They literally say: "especially" "that's not good Dutch," but that doesn't matter "when it comes to indoor sports." The OMT also advises a CTB for the audience at amateur competitions. I have had a look at what Mr Van Dissel replied in the technical briefing on why indoor sports in particular are being advised. He replied in that briefing: "At the OMT we consider it important that contacts be reduced. From the past we know that in outdoor sports the risks are smaller than in indoor sports. That is why the words "in particular" are used. If the Chamber attaches itself to not introducing the corona admission ticket for outdoor sports, it is not feasible for associations and enforcers to introduce the CTB for the public in amateur sports outdoors. If we cancel the CTB obligation at the request of the Chamber for outdoor sports, that means that we should also remove it for the public in outdoor sports. This brings us under the OMT advice. That's what I'm saying. We can't make it any better. That's something to consider. We didn't choose it either. I explained earlier why the cabinet would like to follow the OMT opinion in full, but we are prepared to meet the wishes of the Chamber. That would mean that at all sports locations we do not require CTB for amateur sportsmen outdoors and audiences outdoors. What does that mean in practice? Watchers of amateur sports outside and athletes outside don't have to have a CTB. Of course, there is the urgent advice for the public to keep the 1.5 metres away. Furthermore, at sports complexes, a CTB is requested from everyone over 18 years of age when they enter a building. This happens in all cases: to visit a cafeteria, to work out indoors and in indoor sports, but also when they use the dressing room or the toilet. A CTB is also required here from November 6th for the terrace on a sports accommodation, just like with other restaurants. For the sake of clarity and enforcement, at a sports venue, that corona admission ticket is valid for the 18-year-old age limit, including in the cafeteria and on the terrace, where there is a limit of 13 years for the outdoor catering and sports accommodation. Here it is all 18 years, everything inside and on the terrace. This is therefore necessary for the clarity and enforcement of the sports complexes. If we agree on this, the cabinet will send a new emergency procedure to the Chamber as soon as possible, so that an entry into force can still take place on 6 November with the other measures announced. My feeling is, when I look at it through the hairs of the eyes, that would be the shared position.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u575	Thank you. Finally, Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u576	Thank you. That saves a motion. That's not a motion I would have filed, but I knew she was alive, so I think this will help. It's a good thing it's being picked up and handled this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u577	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u578	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. An interruption by Mrs Simons, BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u579	I actually have a very simple question, which I referred to during my contribution. Between the previous Corona debate and this debate, a report has been produced by KPMG confirming that the cabinet, and especially these directors, are responsible for unnecessary deaths and long-term ill by means of conscious policy choices. In doing so, they have forsaken their duty as a government to protect public health. I reported that during my contribution. I have waited goodly for all three leaders to respond in the hope, as it turns out, that they would at least come back to that for a while. That didn't happen. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to ask, in fact, all three directors, how they reflect on that KPMG report.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u580	For the sake of clarity: page 81 of yesterday's letter goes into it extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u581	Some other Members have already mentioned what I would also like to emphasise as a single group. I think it is incredibly dédain and contempt towards the Chamber, especially towards the single groups and the other small groups, to send such a piece to the Chamber the night before a debate like this. I was in a debate with Minister Grapperhaus this morning from 10:00 a.m. I went to bed in time for this because I think it is important that I am still fresh enough to have a substantive debate after midnight. I would be delighted if the outgoing Prime Minister wanted to go a little further than referring me to page 81 of a letter sent to the Chamber last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u582	I didn't blame you. I noticed that because of the late hour. Of course, I am prepared to bear that part of the letter here as well. In it, the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport writes the following. I make those words mine, too, so where there is "I" here, that goes for me too. "First, I would like to express my appreciation for the researchers. The report provides an initial overview of the lessons that we can use for the future for pandemic preparedness. It contains recognizable elements and valuable new insights. KPMG rightly points out that the sustainable increase in hospital capacity is of little use, given the exponential growth of infectious diseases. The cabinet has nevertheless increased the capacity to absorb the peak and pursue policies to reduce the number of infections and thereby reduce uptakes. The consultancy also indicates that the cabinet sometimes opted for an "optimistic" scenario, partly because of economic and social considerations, while the situation did not prove stable enough afterwards. I recognise that this crisis constantly calls for a balance to be struck between sometimes conflicting interests. There is also a need for a continuous weighting of proportionality with regard to new measures. In addition, it is not always possible to predict the impact of measures in advance. However, there are also a number of comments to be made on the conclusions of the report. KPMG argues, for example, that a commitment to contain (control of infections) rather than to mitigate (directing on the number of hospital and ic intakes) had led to a better outcome in terms of health and economy. This has also been taken over in the coverage of the report. However, this conclusion is incorrect. From the outset, the cabinet has directed to reducing the number of infections by taking contact-limiting measures to avoid the risk of contamination as much as possible and thus to keep the pressure on care manageable. The report also indicates that the Netherlands has done it on average in the fight against the epidemic. According to KPMG, there are countries that are doing better (Denmark, Norway, Finland), and there are many countries that are doing significantly less (England, Spain, Portugal, Czech Republic), said KPMG. The Netherlands has less excess mortality than the other OECD countries. The Netherlands has also done reasonably well economically and the prospects for further economic recovery are good. It is important to note that it is difficult to compare countries properly. After all, many different factors are important, such as population demography, economic character, location and culture. Unlike Australia, for example, the Netherlands is not an island. Several studies therefore also lead to different lists. For example, Bloomberg periodically publishes the "Covid Resilience Ranking." Here, the Netherlands scores as one of the best performing countries. And also in the "Stringency Index" of Oxford, the Netherlands scores high. This index shows how quickly countries have responded after the first confirmed infection and then in taking measures. Unfortunately, these nuances, which the report often knows, are not always included in the coverage of this report. The cabinet considers it important to learn from the past period. Partly at the request of the cabinet, the Research Council for Security, among other things, is conducting research. The lessons from the KPMG report and all other investigations involve the cabinet to increase our pandemic preparedness. The cabinet aims to send the plan of action to strengthen pandemic preparedness, as announced on Princess Day and appointed in my letter to your Chamber of 18 June last year, to your Chamber at the end of the year."
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u583	Thank you. Mrs Simons, BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u584	I would like to thank the outgoing Prime Minister for this nomination and still have a number of questions to ask about it. I understand that this cabinet has now become accustomed to a Chamber that is satisfied with lies. It is a pertinent lie that this cabinet has sent from the very beginning to contagion. It is only on 25 September that this outgoing Prime Minister claimed that no contamination was sent. And today on November 3, he says, "No, we do." In the very first press conference that this outgoing Prime Minister shared with the country, he did his utmost to explain to the whole country what strategy would be followed from that moment on, by a very careful articulation of the word "group immunity." He then denied it. I have denied four extensive interruptions, President......... in this Chamber. I remember Mrs. Kicken and Mr. Klaver talking to him about that. I wasn't in the Chamber myself at the time, but of course I followed what was happening here carefully. So if you'll excuse me, I'll just have to straighten out for a moment that I'm not gonna settle for those lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u585	Perhaps it would be good if the Prime Minister responded to this, otherwise it would be difficult to determine what is being responded to. This is quite an elaborate story. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u586	In the past, the President had the power to delete. We can't do that anymore, but the chairman used to be able to do that. I remember Engwirda of D66 once said to Van Aardenne "you lie," after which the chairman said: you must say that the Minister's statements are at odds with the truth. That sounds a little less extreme than lying. I'm not standing here lying. I am not standing here saying things at odds with the truth either. I'm here to outline the policy of the cabinet. And that's what we've been sending from the beginning to reduce the number of infections. This whole discussion about group immunity, not as a policy objective, but as an additional effect of the policy, we have had a great deal of work. This is really a repeat of moves. I would say: let's take this back when the OVV report comes out or if a survey comes out later. Those are all occasions. This is a bit of a repeat of it and I want to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u587	It is ironic, to say the least, that the man who, to put it mildly, reacted rather heatedly when I tabled a motion on 14 July, here begins a story about what I should or should not say and what should or should not be taken out of the Acts. Then we are on an important subject that I would like to address. The outgoing Prime Minister was completely and completely out of control when I dared to appoint last summer what the KPMG report now confirms and which Newsuur has also confirmed. Actually, the question is whether we can count on an apology. I'm not asking for myself, let me be very clear about that. But the outgoing Prime Minister, with his tirade, did not offend anyone more than the relatives of the victims of his policy. They deserve an apology for that outburst, because what has been done to them and their loved ones, confirmed by the KPMG report and by the careful work of the Newsuur journalists, was completely denied. I think it would be very right for the outgoing Prime Minister to return to those words and that outburst, which we can all still find in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u588	We had that debate back then. I don't have to take back a jot. By the way, this letter also states that the Netherlands has less excess mortality than the other OECD countries. Of course, it's terrible that people are dying because of the pandemic. Unfortunately, that has been inevitable, and that applies to the whole world. A lot of people have died from this terrible disease worldwide. Fortunately, the Netherlands has less excess mortality than the other OECD countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u589	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the cabinet side. We've agreed on four interruptions, and you all have a second term. I really want to end the first term now. No, Mr. Ommzigt, you've already had an extra interruption because a question didn't come true, but now I really want to stop. You want an extra interruption, but we split it up fairly. Everyone is entitled to four questions or comments. Mr. Ommzigt, you can make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u590	My point of order is this. We got 25 documents at 1:00 in the morning. I do my best to go to the briefings and when I'm invited to the informers I try to be there too. This means that we make nights of three hours to read this whole, because we are supposed to process those 25 reports and understand what it says. This is not a policy on the most important dossier we are all working on. This is not the first time that this has been discussed, so I urge you to discuss in the Bureau how we can properly get the documents that respect this important decision, no matter how you think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u591	I'd like to support you in that. That is why we normally plan this kind of debate on Thursday, so that there is a technical briefing on Wednesday and the documents can be read. Now that did not work because of all kinds of agendas, but that is absolutely the goal. In the previous period it was always on Wednesdays, but I put a stop to that myself, because I felt that Members of Parliament should have more time for the technical briefing and to read the documents. The starting point must be that we have this kind of debate on Thursday. Unfortunately, that doesn't always work. This is an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u592	I understand that, but it is at the heart of the policy that has been pursued. A game is being played, because it has been sent on ic-recordings and not on infections, but on policy...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u593	I am going to interrupt you now, because it is going to be content again, when it was a point of order. You have raised the point that you need to be able to read the documents in order, and I share that. I will do my best to plan the debate as much as possible on Thursday. And frankly, there has been extensive attention paid to the interruptions to ask questions, but I understand your displeasure. The pieces were late. Mrs Simons has also indicated this. We'll do our best to plan it on Thursdays from now on. We are now starting with the second term on the side of the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u594	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. I take it now is well arranged that the outdoor sport is excluded. However, I would like to call on the Cabinet to be even more ambitious for regional measures as regards the possibilities that still exist there. It all sounds a little thin. Thank you for finding a solution for, for example, the Wadden Islands. I have one motion. It's about a parliamentary survey. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona pandemic is profound for the whole of Dutch society;]] [[Whereas it is important to look at the experiences of the corona crisis in order to learn from it for the future;]] [[Whereas it is important to look at all aspects of policies, choices and measures and to look at the Cabinet, Parliament and other relevant bodies, advisers and experts;]] [[calls for a parliamentary survey of corona to be launched by mid 2022, and additional to the investigation of the Security Research Council (OVV);]] [[Calls on the Presidium to set up a preparatory group for the parliamentary survey at that time to make all relevant preparations, including the delimitation of the research assignment;]] [[points out that a decision on the starting date should be re-weighted if new corona-related developments arise previously requiring all the attention of the persons concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Aukje de Vries, Mr Hijink, Mr Paternotte, Mr Kuik, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Westerveld, Mr Bikker and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1470]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u595	Mr. Chairman. Genesis 1: "God said, "There is light! And there became light." That's what I learn from the American translation. I respect the Secretary's unbridled ambition. What struck me was that I actually missed that typical ambition at the point of boosters. The Health Council says: we now recommend these boosters, because of the increasing infection pressure. That infection pressure is there now, so you'd say this is a reason to do so as soon as possible. In September André Rouvoet of the GGD GHOR said: we can scale to full capacity within two weeks. My point would be: do that. I will be signing a motion in a moment asking for it to be done if possible. On enforcement one more question to the Minister of JenV. That 45 million he just explained, of course, was for that old package. But now there must be more action by municipalities in other places. So my question is whether he can see if anything else needs to happen at the places in the big cities and the Bible where enforcement is particularly important. Would he be willing to do that? Then I have another motion. It's about the role of the general practitioners, which I had a conversation with the minister about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that vaccination rates are lagging behind in the larger cities and in the Biblebelt;]] [[noting that in some of these regions there are already initiatives by general practitioners to vaccinate themselves;]] [[Whereas some general practitioners would like to contribute to a higher vaccination rate in their region;]] [[Whereas general practitioners do not now have a good overview of who has been vaccinated or not;]] [[calls on the Government to provide maximum support to general practitioners in areas with a low vaccination rate to provide information on corona vaccinations and to administer them themselves, possibly with additional financial resources;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with GPs to see whether and how the link between GPs and GPs can be organised in such a way that GPs can see in their practice in a single overview which patients have been vaccinated or not after the authorisation has been granted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte, Mr Kuiken and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1471]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u596	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Five motions. The first is another attempt to get more money for care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to increase substantially the ic capacity and number of intensive and ic nurses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1472]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u597	The next motion to abolish the corona pass. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the Corona Access Card,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1473]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u598	Then a motion to spend the money not on asylum, but on care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to stop spending tens of billions of euros on asylum and mass immigration, and to devote a substantial part of it to care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1474]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u599	Extending the corona tickets will cost a number of sectors, such as the catering industry. I believe that if the government continues to do so and the Chamber supports it, it must be compensated. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to financially compensate the sectors, such as the catering sector, affected by the government's far-reaching corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1475]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u600	Finally, a subject on which we asked for a letter: it leaks through or around the cabinet. I believe that the National Police should be involved, otherwise it will continue to happen. So just do it once. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,]] [[considers that such leaks should be prevented;]] [[calls on the Government to involve the National Criminal Court in order to put an end to the ongoing leaking of possible corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1476]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u601	I think Mr Wilders really deserves a compliment. He proposes to abolish the corona admission ticket, but there are many more corona measures here, such as the cap and closing times. He said debate after debate: lift all measures. But now he's not, he's not filing that motion right now. I would like to congratulate him on recognizing the reality that there is now such a problem in hospitals that corona measures are needed. Respect!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u602	It's nice to hear you clapping for that, and so is the Prime Minister, but that's not how we got married. I said what measures we support. You cannot deduce from this that we support all the strange measures taken by the cabinet. That's out of the question. I mentioned them in my first term: extra investment in care and see what else is needed. I named them all. But that I support anything I don't reject, I'm sorry to disappoint you, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u603	Thank you. No, we're not going to debate that anymore. I give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u604	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for the commitment that outdoor sports at least do not need a corona ticket. Together with Mrs De Vries, I am interested in the regional approach and how we can apply more customisation and not tax the whole country. I don't think I've answered a question yet, but I may have missed it. It is about those who cannot tolerate a vaccine and how can we allow it to participate as much as possible in society. I'd like to see an answer to that. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a large proportion of unvaccinated people live concentrated in certain neighbourhoods and villages;]] [[Considering the high risk of local fireplaces, which makes it particularly important to use the basic measures in these neighbourhoods and villages;]] [[considers that tests on complaints should therefore be organised as easily as possible in those neighbourhoods and villages;]] [[calls on the government to deploy mobile testing sites in the relevant neighbourhoods and villages with the GGDs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1477]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u605	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u606	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that there is now broad support for organising a parliamentary survey in the course of next year. I think it would be good to be able to hear, under oath, all those involved about what went well and, of course, what did not go well in dealing with the corona crisis. I have two motions for today. The first one is about working at home. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet advises to work 50% at home;]] [[noting that RIVM has calculated that the people who work at home already do 56% of the time;]] [[calls on the Government to change the homework advice to "work at home unless there is no other way',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1478]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u608	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at present there is a large group of people on the ic who are unvaccinated;]] [[Whereas this group will include those who, with this experience, would have preferred to have been vaccinated afterwards;]] [[calls on the government to launch a campaign in which recovered unvaccinated ic patients tell their stories about the importance of vaccinations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1479]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u609	Mr. Chairman. We're gonna see each other more at this kind of long debates than we like. At least I'm speaking for myself. Unfortunately, that is a sad observation, but it is true. Because it's gonna be long months, I'm afraid. I hope that the measures taken will provide sufficient relief in the short term for all those care workers and all those people who are waiting for delayed care. To make a small contribution to this, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona crisis has increased the workload for ic staff;]] [[considers that it should be avoided that such staff are unnecessarily succumbing to this pressure;]] [[Considers that the burden on ICI employees outside the workplace can be reduced by reducing their burden in other areas;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether, during the corona crisis, child care can become free for ICI employees to relieve their burden and facilitate the work of more hours,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Chicken.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1480]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u610	Minister De Jonge embraced this motion. This motion therefore serves as nothing more than an encouragement and to ensure that we keep it on the agenda and get it back. This is the example of childcare, but it can of course also be in other areas. As I said in my first contribution, they are actually the front soldiers in the crisis and they are still standing there for the time being. So everything is needed to see how you can make the most of that capacity. That is the background and reason for this motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u611	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u612	I have a few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to significantly extend the application of corona access tickets, while the effectiveness of the chosen deployment according to the RIVM and the OMT is "uncertain';]] [[noting that for the introduction of testing for access field labs a comprehensive legislative process was set up, while for the current design of the corona access tickets this is not the case;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out large-scale research into the effectiveness of anti-dissemination testing against everyone, and to forward the design of the investigation to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1481]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u613	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ic capacity in the German neighbouring Länder is much higher than in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas, during the first wave, there was a spread of patients with these states and care experts arguing for more work to be done on this;]] [[Whereas, to this end, the Demissionary Cabinet will not proceed until 1,150 ic-beds are occupied;]] [[calls on the government to enter into talks with a view to making concrete arrangements to the extent that it is possible to cooperate with German hospitals for acute care and catching up care in the interests of patients and caregivers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1482]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u614	Then there's one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that testing, tracing and working at home is the strategy to contain a virus;]] [[noting that there is a decline in test readiness;]] [[Whereas a successful voluntary scheme for free self-tests is in place in education;]] [[calls on the government to introduce a new regime to distribute free self-tests through employers in the Netherlands to help contain the virus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1483]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u615	As I say this, I realize that "testing, tracing and isolating" can be better replaced by "testing, tracing and working at home." That also sounds a lot more friendly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u616	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u617	Mr President, thank you. I don't have any motions, just a few final words. Because while we are debating the fight against the current pandemic tonight, there is a real chance that the next pandemic will now be hatched. The Party for Animals wants to prevent that very much. It is too easy to deal with this, I hope that it will be different that the cabinet has not yet learned enough from the mistakes of the past. I hope we will see that change in the coming months. Mr. Chairman. Then of course also about corona. At the moment, we see that the government's attitude undermines the support for the measures and continues to oppose groups. You see the heels go into the sand in society. We believe that the cabinet should serve the general interest and not cause these heels to go deeper into the sand. And we can see that they are the instigator of that right now. The Animal Party did not take any motions tonight, but we did sign a motion from the SP. We believe that it is a good measure, because it is a measure that suits our party well, because we weigh several interests in relation to each other. We indicated a few weeks ago that the corona pass is not part of it, just like the enlargements proposed by the cabinet this evening. They can't count on the Party's support for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u618	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u619	Thank you, Mr President. A couple of motions. But before I do, I thank the Cabinet for the answer. Mr. Chairman. What is important is that we get to work in the areas with a low vaccination rate and especially in the vulnerable neighbourhoods of the cities. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in areas with a low vaccination rate and rapidly rising infections and hospitalisations, the possibility of low-threshold testing is particularly important;]] [[Whereas accessible information and information on vaccines should be available in these places;]] [[calls on the Government to establish permanent testing, information and pricking sites in the relevant urban districts and villages as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker, Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1484]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u620	Second motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas compliance with basic measures and regular tests is of the utmost importance in areas with a low vaccination rate and rapidly increasing infections and rising hospitalisations;]] [[Whereas free provision of mouth caps and testing can be provided by GGD and municipality in these areas in an appropriate manner;]] [[calls on the Government to provide free mouth caps and tests in an appropriate and regular manner to those municipalities where these devices are most of added value in the light of increasing infections and vaccination rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25925-1485]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u621	Mr. Chairman. It is not easy for me to see another package unfolding that brings new restrictions on freedoms. But it is necessary, because in the care the pressure is too high. However, I hope that this package and compliance with these basic measures will enable us to return to a different situation. We're all there. I call myself to that, but also everyone here. Let's do it wherever we can, because what it would be good if we could find that freedom again by taking care of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u622	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u623	45,000 deaths in Europe and the United States as a result of the side effects of vaccinations! 3.1 million people with severe permanent physical injury! They are the sad victims of a web of lies that is being stretched around the world for free people, like Nabokov who tried to push butterflies. It is a succession of falsehoods about the mortality of corona, which is similar to that of the flu. About supposedly working lockdowns. Which isn't. About supposedly working vaccines. Which isn't. About the supposedly non-existent or negligible existence of side effects of this toxic gene therapy that they want to impose on everyone. And why is this happening? Why schoolmaster Hugo de Jonge keeps looking away when I tell fact after fact here in this room? Why Mark Rutte is only smiling a little? We don't know. We don't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u624	Mr. Baudet, I had asked you for our directors... It's the Prime Minister. It's the Health Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u625	You would also have asked Hugo de Jonge to listen when representatives of the people speak here. That's not gonna happen. Are you going to call him to order?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u626	That's a question for me. I think I did the same in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u627	Isn't it time to do that again? What do you think? Maybe it is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u628	You'll continue with your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u629	We don't know how much they know. We do not know whether they are just errand boys of big tech, big pharma and the ambition to establish a sort of totalitarian control state worldwide. We don't know. We do know that we can keep asking for the primary hospital data, for all the data, to expose this web of lies. That's why I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas primary figures are important in order for the Court to carry out its supervisory function properly and thus control power;]] [[Calls on the Government to combine these figures at the lowest possible level of aggregation, so that the data sets do not show the vaccination status of one individual patient and therefore privacy is not compromised;]] [[calls on the Government to provide, where possible, the data at individual hospital level so that members of parliament can verify the data,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to share confidentially with members of parliament the primary hospital data per hospital,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the government to share with the Chamber the total number of covid patients in hospitals and added specifically to the ic's.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1486]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1488]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1487]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u630	I apologize for going through my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u631	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u632	Thank you. I gotta be real quick, there's six of them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in particular, social media platforms disseminate disinformation;]] [[noting that disinformation is harmful to the dissemination of COOVID-19;]] [[calls on the government to use all possible means, both national and European, so that social media will proactively remove and ward off disinformation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a major health-care attack in progress;]] [[noting that there are two variables involved in this care infarct, namely deferred care and care staff;]] [[calls on the government to present a plan to the Chamber as soon as possible, but not later than the end of November, on how to resolve this crisis of care in a realistic but ambitious way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are also people who live at home, and that because of their vulnerability they and their housemates now do self-insulation, for example, and that they have a heart cry called "booster";]] [[calls on the government to offer these vulnerable 60-miners and their roommates the booster as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this pandemic requires a minimum of medium-term planning with different scenarios;]] [[having noted that several countries have planned up to a minimum of Q2 of 2022 with different scenarios;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt this example and itself to present a plan with different scenarios to the Chamber by the end of November until at least Q2 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to forward this motion to the OVV requesting a short-term interim report on the approach to the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Simons, Mr Den Haan and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1489]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Den Haan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1490]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Den Haan, Mr Simons and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1491]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Den Haan, Mr Simons and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1492]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1493]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u633	And then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that controlling infections is a much better strategy, and one that is consistent with advice from, inter alia, the WHO and appropriate to category A of COVID-19;]] [[calls on the government to control a clear number of infections from now on, such as a stoplight system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gündoğan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1494]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u634	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. There were a lot of them. I'm sure we'll meet again soon about corona. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. That was a hint, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u635	Firstly, I would like to express great respect for Mrs Gündoğan's pace of speech. Greetings! Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive answers to my questions. I am very pleased that, after a brief debate of interruption, he indicated that he wanted to look at best practice abroad when it comes to serological testing. In order to help him on his way, we are talking about the countries of Austria, Iceland, Romania, Hungary, Montenegro and Israel, as mentioned. If he has looked at this, I would like to exchange views on how we can shape this. Furthermore, I had a motion on the clustering of ic-care for COVID-19 patients, but on the basis of the Minister's reply it becomes clear to me that there is only limited support for this at the moment, precisely from the ic's itself. And as a member of a party who believes that things need to be brought up from the workplace, I am holding that motion for a moment if it is more necessary. But I'm glad to hear it's not the Minister's fault. Then I have another motion, along with Mr Omtzigt, on giving openness to figures. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the effectiveness of vaccines should be clear;]] [[Calls on the Government to report weekly or bi-weekly at the lowest possible level of aggregation on the ratio of vaccinees/non-vaccines in hospitals and on ic's, as well as on vaccine effectiveness;]] [[calls on the Government to have these figures validated by the CBS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1495]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u636	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u637	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u638	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. In view of the clock, I shall confine myself to one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Digital Support Advisory Committee on Combating Covid-19 advises the government "to develop and communicate successfully on the future phase-out of CoronaCheck";]] [[calls on the Government to draw up such a vision and to inform the Court of Justice on this matter by 1 December at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1496]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u639	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of people vaccinated and tested positive for corona increased to 44% in October;]] [[Whereas the people in possession of a corona pass and a valid QR code, although they are less ill, may infect others;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from extending the corona admission requirement for workers or organisations, such as the gym, which are crucial for national health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several national and international studies have shown that better air ventilation can help to reduce the risk of spreading COOVID-19;]] [[noting that RIVM has established that a good air humidity balance between 40%-60% in indoor spaces can help to reduce the risk of spreading COOVID-19;]] [[Whereas the objective of reducing contamination rates can be otherwise achieved;]] [[Calls on the Government to refrain from extending the corona permit for companies that can demonstrate that the ventilation system meets the requirements set out in the Drinking and Horeca Act, the Building Decision or NOC*NSF, and where the humidity value is between 40%-60%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to exclude all companies or organisations that have a custom-made infection prevention protocol with regard to ventilation from asking for a corona access certificate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in crowded and poorly ventilated spaces with high CO levels of aerosol dispensers more often and for longer periods of time, so that many people can become infected at the same time;]] [[Whereas many experts point out the importance of a CO-meter in enclosed spaces;]] [[calls on the Government to require public indoor areas such as restaurants, cafes and gyms to purchase CO meters and to provide a subsidy scheme for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1497]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1498]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1499]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1500]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u640	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u641	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u642	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Health Council has advised to start giving a booster vaccine to 60-plussers, also because of the current infection pressure;]] [[noting that for many Dutch people it has been longer than six months since they received their last vaccination;]] [[whereas the government has adopted this opinion, but is not expected to be able to start vaccination until December with 80-plussers and the rest of the group will only take place from January;]] [[Whereas the GGD-GHOR indicated that it would be able to start a vaccination campaign for boosters within two weeks;]] [[calls on the government to start vaccination of the 60-plussers with the booster vaccine earlier than December,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1501]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u643	I would like to say one more thing, Mr President. I spoke in my speech about solidarity, or rather the lack of solidarity, and that hardens the atmosphere in society. Here too, the emotions are rising again today. You can see that more and more the personal attack is being chosen. As far as I'm concerned, it's a good thing that we're measuring each other here, but we have to do this business and functionally, and respectfully. Also on social media things are getting harder. Today, I was talking to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health about my contribution. In this case, it is not to be repeated that I am speaking with the cabinet. Thank you for that tweet, because that actually gives me the space to say something positive about the people sitting there. I often disagree with the cabinet, especially when it comes to corona policy, not only as a Member of Parliament, but also before I was a Member of Parliament. But I'd like to say something to the people behind the job there. I also hope that people at home realize that. After that function are people with feelings, people who are on 24 hours a day, who work fifteen, sixteen hours a day, seven days a week. They are people who have a family or loved ones around them, and who have almost no normal social network anymore. They are being hailed and threatened and even need to be protected. As far as I'm concerned, that's unacceptable. I would therefore like to make an appeal to everyone. If you disagree, fine, but have a little respect for each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u644	That's a good point. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet agreed that the policy strategy on corona had opted for the "controlling" of the virus;]] [[noting that "checking out" means that the virus should be able to spread for as long as the ic capacity allows, with group immunity as therefore;]] [[noting that the aim of the policy strategy is not to contain as much as possible and prevent contamination;]] [[Whereas this strategy has seriously harmed public health, resulted in more than 30,000 deaths and potentially made hundreds of thousands of Dutch long-term ill;]] [[noting that this strategy has caused enormous physical, financial and mental damage to the economy, working people, people at risk, young people and many others;]] [[noting that this strategy has prevented the cabinet from controlling the virus;]] [[rejects the corona strategy of the virus;]] [[calls on the government to break this strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS are responsible for a strategy which is not aimed at controlling the virus but at carrying as many infections as possible as hospitals;]] [[whereas the KPMG report confirms that this strategy has resulted in unnecessary deaths and long-term illness, and the government has therefore failed to fulfil its obligation to protect public health;]] [[declares confidence in the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1502]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1503]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u646	Mr President, I see I have a few seconds left. I would like to refer to the words of Mrs Den Haan. Of course, I have no choice but to support it. However, I cannot help saying here that I do not think it is very respectful that at the moment when a outgoing Prime Minister takes such an attitude and reacts emotionally and I ask on behalf of relatives, care workers and people who have become ill for a long time to reflect on it, he feels it is necessary to say that he does not take back any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u647	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then we'll go to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u648	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are hardly any infections outside;]] [[rejects the proposed extension of the corona ticket to outdoor locations, such as open terraces and outdoor sports locations, in the AMvB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the Netherlands an antigen test for access is only valid for 24 hours;]] [[whereas most of the other European countries remain valid for 48 hours;]] [[calls on the Government to align the period of validity of the antigen test with other European countries and to increase it to 48 hours,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is continuing to introduce discriminatory measures;]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Haga, Mr Smolders, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Wilders, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1504]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1505]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1506]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u649	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u650	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u651	Mr President, is this a novel?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u652	I don't know if this is a Novum. But I also think it would go so far as to advise parties to do it together. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u653	I heard two motions of mistrust. I think they were submitted from specific points of view which did not correspond to 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u654	I think Mr. Ommzigt has a point there. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u655	I would have liked to have had an open discussion about this strategy, which is difficult. You see in the middle of a pandemic. We would have liked to have been out on November 1st. That didn't work. It is not that we would have had no action at all if there had been another government. But this way we will not have a discussion about the strategy and we will not be able to look at countries like Norway and Denmark, which have just done significantly better. I'm still waiting for the answers. I would have liked to hear about the no-regret measures. I assume they can be taken quickly. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of measures currently being taken and proposed affect the fundamental rights of citizens;]] [[invites the Government to explicitly review the Constitution and fundamental rights in each subsequent corona measure and to offer them to the Court by means of a decision or a proposed decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the basic measures are the key to reducing the number of infections as a society;]] [[noting that compliance is low and that the government does not make any effort with clear implementing rules on testing, quarantine, distance and ventilation;]] [[calls on the government to conduct an intensive general public campaign aimed at target groups within a few days, via national radio, TV and social media, on how to understand the basic measures and how to make them operational, in cooperation with GGD and primary care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Westerveld, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Kuzu, Mr Simons and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1507]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Gündoğan, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Hijink, Mr Westerveld, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1508]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u656	The next item is the government's second term. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u657	Mr. Chairman. There was one more question for the Minister of Justice. There were no motions for him. I am happy to answer that one question, Mr Paternotte's question on the further concentration of resources for compliance. The point here is that this division has already been made, in good consultation with the Security Council. The funds have been made available to the security regions since 25 September. In turn, they have distributed the funds among municipalities. These have been published for about six weeks now. It is no longer possible to organise a different use of resources. In addition, we want compliance to go well everywhere and not only in places with a low vaccination rate. That could still have been a substantive discussion if the funds had been redistributed. The minister still goes, he just told me in a text message, again to press the Security Council to spend the money properly as soon as possible. The motion in part No. 1470 is a "spoken" motion, so it doesn't need my judgment. The motion in part No. 1473, of the PVV: dissuade. CTBs are needed to reduce the risk of infections. So, with reference to the debate, I would advise against that motion. The motion in part No. 1474: dissuade. Budget for care, that's what we choose out of conviction. Of course, this also applies to money needed for decent asylum reception. These are all expenditures which the Chambers have always agreed to. The motion in part No. 1475: dissuade. As far as the measures in force are concerned, there are already provisions: the 75% standard for the unpassed events and the closure of the nighthoreca. And the package of November 6th doesn't stand in the way of healthy business operations. Of course, we always keep our finger on the wrist. So the motion in part No. 1475 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 1476: dissuade. I do so with reference to what I said at the beginning of the debate: there is no insight into how and what of leaking. There are many parties involved. Therefore, declaration does not serve a reasonable purpose. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 1476. The motion in part No. 1478: advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 1492: advise against referring to the debate. The OVV will undoubtedly take note of what is being discussed in the Chamber, but I do not think that the government should continue to interfere in the logistics of the OVV. Again, I think the Chamber itself could agree to contact the OVV. I think that's more purer. The motion in part No. 1497: dissuade, referring to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u658	1492?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u659	I was at the motion in part no. 1492 of Volt. Oh, it's the motion in part No. 1493 of Volt. Did I say it wrong? Yes, that's right: it's the motion in part no. 1493.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u660	The motion in part No. 1493 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u661	Where I said 1492, you should have heard 1493. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u662	The first applicant is Mrs Güntoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u663	But Mr Omtzigt is the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u664	The second one. Then I'll leave this... but we're not both gonna respond to the same motion. So if you, Mrs Gündoğan, leave it to Mr Omtzigt...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u665	It's perfectly fine for the Chamber to ask, but the OVV investigation has been requested by the government and not by the Chamber. Since the government is the applicant for the investigation, it would be strange if the Court asked for an interim report. Wouldn't it make more sense to offer them to the government? That's why this construction was chosen in the motion. Because how can you ask for an interim report of an investigation you're not a client of?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u666	I'm not gonna do that. We have so many discussions here about the purity of investigations. It is also at the request of the Chamber. The Chamber has every opportunity to contact the OVV itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u667	You disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u668	The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu: dissuade, with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 1503 is a statement from the Chamber. I don't have to respond to that. The motion in part No. 1502... I need to take a look. The order was equally confusing. The motion in part No. 1502 is a motion which in itself is also a ruling of the Chamber, but I have to respond to it because it also calls on the government to break this strategy. That's why I don't recommend the motion. As for the other part, I hope for a happy ending. But I have no formal opinion on that. The motion in part No. 1504: dissuade, referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 1506 is another pronunciation motion, so it doesn't ask for a reaction. The motion in part No. 1508: dissuade. We are already doing a lot, and the communication is fully in motion. We work with a lot of parties, including the security regions and the GGDs. They may further disseminate available means of communication within their region. So that is about the motion in part No. 1508. It's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u669	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. First we clean up and then we talk to the Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u670	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the motion in part no. 1471 of Paternotte, Chicken and Van den Berg. On that motion, I will leave the judgment to the Chamber, at least on the subject of talking to the general practitioners. That's what the motion orders. That's what we're gonna do, but that doesn't mean anything about the outcome. I also advise against the motion in part No. 1472 with reference to the debate. On the motion in part No. 1477 I leave the judgment to the Chamber, also with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 1480 I don't recommend. I do think that all the things that Mrs Chicken mentioned should be done. But the fact that the government then arranges free childcare is, in my view, not at the heart of the matter. It is about employers who need to take good care of their employees. That's what I'm talking to the same employers about.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u671	And the motion in part No. 1479?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u672	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u673	The motion in part No. 1479 I don't think you'd have had it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u674	Oh, yeah, they hooked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u675	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u676	Thank you for giving me the opportunity. On the motion in part No. 1479 I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u677	The motion in part No. Mr Hijink gave a ruling on 1479. And the motion in part No. 1480 by Mrs Kuik is not recommended. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u678	I'll think about what I'm doing with it, but I'd like a feedback from that conversation. When?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u679	In the short term. We're just gonna have that conversation. As soon as I have anything to say back, I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u680	Then I'll hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u681	At Mrs Kuik's request, I propose her motion (25295, No. 1480) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u682	Then I come to the motion on part No. 1481. I am going to make a few comments and then leave the judgment to the Chamber. First of all, I say we're going to do a large-scale investigation. Mrs Westerveld wants to counter the effectiveness of the current CTBs against alternative design. I am going to do that in relation to the different modalities that the OMT has also put side by side. In addition, I would like to point out that testing, even if people have already been vaccinated, is not my preference. But I do understand your need to see the effectiveness of the various modalities outlined by the OMT side by side. I'm gonna talk about the design of that investigation. In that context, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then I advise against the motion in part No. 1482. It is a bit strange in terms of timing, because we have had the talks. We've reconfirmed the agreements we already had. It is also not "pass pass" to German agreements at 1.150, but "al." Because, of course, it is quite early when you call on a neighbouring country. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. It's 1482. Then the motion to part No. 1483 van GroenLinks on free self-tests for employers. Of all the schemes we have had to provide free self-tests, I found that towards employers the least successful, so I am not going to repeat them again. I am going to promise that I will let you know how we are going to choose a meaningful destination for the large party of self-tests we have left in the light of what you, Mrs Chicken and Mrs Bikker have brought in. So I'm not suggesting this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1484 on permanent test and puncture locations in the neighborhood; permanent as in: not very temporary, but of course not for eternity. If I may explain the motion in this way, I would like to leave it to the Chamber, also with reference to the debate. On the motion in part No. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, even with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 1486 is about the hospital records. I do not recommend it with reference to this debate, but also with reference to last week's debate. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1487 and for the motion in part No. 1488. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1489.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u683	Before proceeding, Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u684	I can hear the Minister say: I am dissuading this by referring to this debate. What exactly is he referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u685	We talked about the hospital records. We talked about the effectiveness of the vaccine and what it means for the ratio between vaccinees and unvaccines in hospitals. The vaccine effectiveness figures are reported by RIVM, by hospitals at RIVM and by RIVM to us in an aggregated manner. That has a lot of advantages. That has the advantage of losing distortion. This also has the advantage that a scientific validation is done by RIVM. This motion calls for numbers to be provided per hospital and so on. That has a lot of drawbacks. I call the statistical distortion you don't want. But that also has the disadvantage that it provides all kinds of privacy issues. Mr Omtzigt was right to point that out. It also has the disadvantage that we actually say something very crazy to the RIVM when we do this. Then we say: we don't actually believe in those numbers we get from you, so we would like to make those sums ourselves for the sum of different hospitals. For those three reasons, I don't want to. That's what I said last week, and that's what I'm saying now. That's why I advise against all three of these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u686	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u687	I'm gonna peel it off. Point three: we tell RIVM we don't trust them. Well, the RIVM is a government agency and the Chamber has the task of controlling the government. The Chamber asks for the raw data on the basis of which a public authority sends messages. That makes perfect sense. That is the task of the House of Representatives. The Minister for Health says: that is very strange, then we get a culture of distrust. Yes, hello, that is the principle of democracy. The second point is anonymity. So we have guaranteed it in this motion. We have said: you can anonymize it or you can show it to us confidentially. You could just leave it with an accountant. We'll only get the data. But we want an outside party to look at it. The first point is that you're getting a statistical distortion. That doesn't make any sense. There is no statistical calculation or anything at all. This is just about the sum: there are so many hospitals, there are so many corona patients. How many of these have been vaccinated, how many haven't, and how many don't we know? That's a simple set of data. That doesn't have to be calculated at all. There is therefore no argument that persists as to why the government should, of course, discourage all cartel parties that want to listen to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u688	I really insist that you get a statistical distortion here, of course. Last week, I think, we spent an hour debating the figures from Maastricht. That's where exactly what I didn't want: a statistical distortion of a photo. It was a week's picture instead of a month's movie. It was also a distortion of a department where coincidentally many people lie with a very weak immune system, and thus a higher percentage of vaccinees. Especially from the corner of Forum, pars pro toto was said: oh, but that means that the RIVM figures are wrong. No, if you compare one department in one week with the numbers across the country, you could get a statistical distortion. That's what I said. That's one. Two. Of course, the problem of privacy is not just soluble. When reporting a small department with three patients over a certain week, you know exactly which three patients have been there. So when you get the report on whether or not people have been vaccinated, you can identify who has walked in and who has been vaccinated or not. I don't want to. That's not good. Nor is that appropriate to the situation we now have in public health. Three: trust. Of course, such a motion must be read as a motion of censure towards the scientists of the RIVM. If we ask them to paint a scientifically sound consolidated picture of the situation in hospitals and you say "I don't trust it, so I want to make my own excellets of it, because I'm much better at it," that's a very strange way of dealing with an independent scientific institute like RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u689	You disagree. We also debated this last week. The motion in part No. 1489.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u690	The motion in part No. 1489 is about disinformation. Well, the bridge couldn't be made more graceful. I'm going to make one comment and then leave the verdict to the Chamber. The comment concerns 'all possible means'. There's always a limit to that. We may need to take more time to have that debate together, because freedom of expression is, of course, a very good thing. You have to think long and hard about whether you want to limit it before you actually do. But within the context of the law, also as we interpret the law, with a great freedom of expression and a broad interpretation of it, we try to do a lot together with tech companies to counter disinformation. Are those all the means possible? I think there are still a few additional resources available, but they are not necessarily desirable. That debate is also taking place in your Chamber with my colleague Ollongren. If I may add that remark, I agree very much with the thrust of this motion, namely that we have never lived in a time when we must be so intensively engaged in disinformation and be so active in combating it, because we see that disinformation is simply a real danger to public health. And democracy, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u691	The motion in part No. 1489 gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u692	The motion in part No. 1490 I'm going to dissuade. We have talked quite extensively about how we want to regulate the scaling-up of care. We have discussed quite extensively, and also described, what measures we are taking to achieve this. Now suddenly another plan would be a little double-up. I believe that we have done what we can and must do. So I'm not suggesting this motion. The motion in part No. I also advise against 1491 referring to the debate. Those 60-minners will be there, but first the 60-plussers, because that is a more important target group for booster vaccination. Then the scenarios. I have replied quite extensively to Mrs Bikker, in the opinion of many too extensive. The conclusion of that answer was that in Q1 we want to outline these long-term scenarios, and the plan that fits in with them, to the Chamber. We only made the approach for this autumn 14 September. We will relate to the scenarios that the Academy has put on paper together with the WRR, but we will do so in the first quarter of 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u693	The motion in part No. 1492 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u694	Yeah, it's being dissuaded. Apologies. The motion in part No. 1494...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u695	Before you continue, there is a question from Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u696	I'd be happy to hold the motion. This is the spirit of the motion, which is that in this pandemic, in which we are probably going to a new phase again and again, we are always seeing what is going on quite abruptly and in the middle of a phase. I hear from all sides that perhaps the advantages and disadvantages of a European party are that a country such as Germany and many other countries are really planning scenarios in the longer term. That gives more peace to all concerned. If I can't do it now, I'd like to ask: when? So we can work at least six months ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u697	First quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u698	And then for six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u699	Or maybe even longer. That depends entirely on the situation at the time. Germany has simply said that we are going through all the measures until the spring of next year. Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u700	And then you'll hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u701	Then I'll hold the motion until Q1 and file it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u702	At the request of Mrs Gündoğan, I propose her motion (25295, No. (Parliament adopted the resolution) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u703	The motion in part No. 1494 I also advise against. That can really be done with reference to the debate. I do not want a traffic light system based on infections now; it is based on hospitalisations, but not on infections. The motion in part No. 1495 is about biweekly reporting. I'd love to. I do this not at a very low level of aggregation, for all kinds of reasons, namely statistical distortion, but also privacy. We just do it at national level. I find that validated by the CBS complicated. This is simply not the field of expertise of the CBS. So I really want to leave it to RIVM to report on this. That is also entirely the legal task of RIVM. I'd like to do two-week reports. With that remark, so if the last request comes out, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber for policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u704	I am looking at Mr Omtzigt, because Mrs Pouw-Verweij is not here right now. That means that the motion has to be changed. "CBS" should then become "RIVM." That's what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u705	That's just the RIVM, yeah. Then the motion to part No. 1496.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u706	I would like to return to the motion for a resolution on part No. 1495.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u707	Let me just put it very soberly. In the current wording, I advise against the motion. If the final request goes out, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 1496: Phase-out of the coronacheck. I think that's too soon. I'm just afraid to say that. Then we're gonna try to promise something we can't deliver. So this one I'm not telling you. Then the motion to part No. 1497: ventilation as an alternative. Ventilation should not be an alternative. You have to organize it on top of it. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u708	You mean the motion in part No. 1498. The one in part No. 1497 had already provided your colleague with an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u709	Okay. As long as he didn't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u710	The motion in part No. 1497 was dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u711	Very good. Great minds think alike. The motion in part No. 1498 for the reasons I have just given at the motion for a resolution on item No. 1497.................................................................................................. Then the motion to part No. 1499. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It's just not feasible, it's not helpful and it's not protective. Then the motion to part No. 1500 over CO-meters. A hand-out was recently made for that purpose. We're not gonna make these CO meters available for free. But if you have a CO-meter, you can find a way to use it in that hand-out. I'm dissuading the motion. Then the motion to part No. 1501. I would advise against this with reference to what I have said about it. We really need to take the implementation seriously. I'm dissuading the motion. Then the motion to part No. 1505. In the letter requested by Mr Van Haga, I gave a detailed account of the validity of the antigen tests. With reference to that, I advise against the motion. Then the motion to part No. 1507: review of measures in accordance with the Constitution. That is not doing well and would also ask something from us which is actually part of your work. We have established the Twm, of course, with a test on the Constitution. The temporary law came about precisely because the praxis before that temporary law was actually no longer a good way of working. Mr Van der Staaij has pointed this out, among other things. The Jetten/Van der Staaij motion has given rise to that Twm. Each measure explicitly test against the Constitution requires a lot of lawyering and ultimately, of course, it is just a political weighting. The extent to which you use the possibilities offered by the temporary law depends on the epidemiological context of that moment. How you weigh that is really up to you. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u712	I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt, because it concerns this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u713	That disappoints me very much. Individual measures - we are not talking about measures on CO meters; we really do not need to talk about a constitutional test on corona access, on lockdown issues - affect citizens' fundamental rights. They have not been tested by the law itself, because the law is a kind of framework law under which you can apply measures, even measures that we cannot yet foresee. That constitutional review at the time had more to do with the question: do you not take Parliament's rights out of its hands? This is not a question of removing rights from the parliament, because the parliament has enough rights. What matters here is how you weigh the individual measures. What it says here is, when you take such a measure, show why it is proportionate in the eyes of the scheme. Is it done to limit these fundamental rights? That is the purpose of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u714	I understand that, but that would require either a very heavy report per measure or a rather simple report, after which your political weighting would be raised again. I am thinking of the weighting of Article 22 of the Treaty on European Union to do everything possible in the context of promoting public health with other fundamental rights and freedoms that people are entitled to. Doing everything to promote health is, of course, also an obligation on public authorities. For example, you will soon have to look at fundamental rights side by side and consider whether the measure itself has been properly implemented. In short, I do not know if a piece of paper will help you in that weighing. You're gonna have to do that yourself. That is also your job as a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u715	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u716	That is a task of a people's representative as co-legislator. But the other co-legislator is in "K." It represents something and considers it to be in line with the Constitution. That Constitution is not digital. Some people think things are absolutely absolute. They're not. Especially in an epidemic, they're not. There's a weighting to be made. If you don't have a Constitutional Court here, and we don't have a Constitutional Court here, then a government has that weighting to make. That is even her constitutional task. I would ask you to include a number of rules which state why a certain weighting is being made. Do that only with those measures that you can imagine sanding somewhere. This does not apply to 80% of the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u717	A few things about that. First of all, the Twm has a number of special provisions which express the fact that we are in a special situation and that there is also an additional task for the cabinet to come to a weighting, even constitutionally, when proposing measures, in a different way than perhaps otherwise. This manifests itself, for example, in the fact that, before we can establish a ministerial arrangement, most of the time you can do that as a minister alone, you have to gauge the feeling in the Council of Ministers and such an arrangement is signed by three executives: those of VWS, those of Justice and those of Home Affairs. The Home Affairs Committee is particularly concerned about the need to take that constitutional test. To this extent, there is, of course, a weighting, including in relation to fundamental rights. That's one example of it. Secondly, where, for example, we consider the corona tickets necessary, we have, of course, weighed their introduction in relation to other constitutionally established freedoms when adopting the legislation, by the Cabinet, but also by the Chamber and by the Council of State in the meantime in the advisory sense. Thirdly, the measures themselves have a proportionality weighting which the Twm mandates. On the contrary, the Twm prescribes that measures should always be taken in a proportionate manner and that no more stringent measures should be taken than is strictly necessary to combat the epidemic. That is a very special provision which I would also like to mention when the Chamber in Hindsight says: shouldn't we have kept firmer measures at the time, even if it wasn't necessary at the time? Well, no, because the Twm prescribes that a proportionality test should always be carried out, precisely in order to do justice to the constitutional weighting of different provisions. In short, there are safety measures, safety valves built in, but a separate basic test for every measure we propose is, in my opinion, a lot of paper and at the end of the day you still have to weigh yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u718	You disagree. Then I see another interruption. Which motion of yours is it about, Mr. Paternotte?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u719	I had walked here because of the Den Haan/Paternotte motion in part No. 1501. Of course, I am not going back to the debate on this. We just don't think it makes sense to start boosters in five weeks. I would like to ask whether the Minister in the letter he is probably going to send next week would like to explain what has changed in the implementation compared to September when the GGD indicated that it would be able to scale up to full capacity within two weeks. That's what I've always assumed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u720	I mentioned earlier in a letter that, from the moment you press the start button, it will take four to six weeks before the execution can actually start. That doesn't mean that not all the schematics are ready. This does not mean that the implementation has not been completed. Yes, he is. But you're gonna have to hire people you couldn't have been unemployed on the couch in the last few months. That's the deal we made with the G.D.D. That's the deal we've been communicating with the Chamber before. You know that. By the way, that's just totally in line with the Health Council. The Health Council doesn't say anything about starting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u721	Thank you. That brings us to the end... Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u722	I asked another question in the second round. I imagine the Minister may not be able to answer it. Maybe he can do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u723	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u724	I already answered that one. The question was about groups that can't easily get a QR code. Mrs De Vries had asked the same question. I had indeed answered it as a question from Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u725	He was also talking about an allergy. I even remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u726	Maybe I missed it. I'll listen to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u727	You're right to ask that question. He was answered in the debate. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-11-03-tweedekamer-7.u728	I thank the Prime Minister. I thank the Minister. I thank the Members of Parliament. I thank the viewers at home and the chamberkeepers and servants. As agreed, we're going to vote tomorrow afternoon.
