ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	Let's move on. The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister of VWS and the Minister for Medical Care. I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD. And Mr Dijkhoff's birthday is today!
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	I suggest... well, I'm not suggesting it. In the first period, we keep up to four questions. That's the deal I make with you guys. Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. We see very carefully the first effects of the lockdown, but it's not enough. Then we also have to deal with the new British variant, which is also not tender. It can bring us back to square one in a short time. The fact that people are wondering why so many flights from London continue to land at Schiphol Airport is not so crazy. Shouldn't we limit that? Or can the Cabinet explain by which precautions it can be justified? We must now be extra careful by such a new variant. We can afford less, so now we have to lock down longer. That makes sense, but it's miserable. Restaurants: closed. The shops: close. The hairdressers: close. No concerts, no theater, no carnival. You have to organize a whole debate today to get a little more people on your birthday. But seriously. Unfortunately, this still happens too often: too many people on your birthday, too many and too often visiting each other, inventing smarts that still bring risks, too often and unnecessary to the office, sneaky house parties, illegal raves. The measures we are taking now are simply less effective than they have done before. We're a little tired and well, there's a vaccine coming up, right? This attitude combined with a new, much more contagious virus is killing, literally. So it is also logical that the cabinet should consider being even stricter and asking about the effects of a curfew. But if you're gonna do that, you're gonna have to be able to maintain it. That will require more police and boas on the street. They already have an important and increasingly ungrateful task to ensure that we all abide by the rules. Is the cabinet talking to the police and the enforcers to ensure that they can continue to do their job properly and safely? Mr. Chairman. By sticking to the measures, we gain the time needed to get the real weapon delivered, and that is enough vaccines. We have talked about the slow start, but what we have seen in recent weeks is impressive. I would like to congratulate everyone who has worked hard on this. Where the vaccine brings light to the end of the tunnel, the more contagious British variant makes that road through the tunnel heavier. This means that we must do everything we can to get entrepreneurs through this crisis, so that when we finally get back to business, the streets are empty, the entrepreneurs have fallen over and they haven't made it at the last minute, when the end is in sight. After almost a year of misery, the financial buffers are now really up. After the sudden closure in December, many shops have not sold anything. So they don't have any money to stock up for spring or when they can open up again. Then the attitude in the support packages should not be: yes, you will sell that old stock when you open. Because who will buy another winter coat or a 2021 agenda? It's not just food that's perishable. Would the cabinet like to see how we can help entrepreneurs more generously with the stock payment? If you do not know for long how long a support package is needed, then you have to be more careful, because you have to be able to support it. But now that the cabinet itself has also indicated that we must be able to go back to an economic normal with vaccination this year, the support must be increased to help each other through and to make a flying start in order to grow full of energy from the economic crisis. It certainly includes events, and you don't organize them within a week. I know it's a big "if," but if the Astra vaccine is approved, then you also know that this summer the elderly and vulnerable may have been vaccinated. We can see that in the schematics. Then it's also to be expected that you can do more. Then we must now give the entrepreneurs the room to prepare those events so that they can start immediately when the weather is allowed. That doesn't mean a bag of money right now, just the guarantee that if you hold an event after a certain date and it is cancelled by corona, you can call on the guarantee fund. I ask the Cabinet to include this in the new support package. I would like to draw attention once again to the starters. I've asked for it before. It cannot be explained that we do not succeed in excluding entrepreneurs who started when the first lockdown began, when the pandemic began. I hope that we can still fix that in this package. We cannot then, with more extensive support, promise that we can save and drag everyone through. That's how realistic you have to be. But now that the end is in sight, we must make an extra effort, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, to get as much as possible together. That's the only way to get through this and then move on together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment for the sitting to be cleaned and then I give Mr Wilders the floor. Mr Wilders has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	Madam President. The number of people tested positive is falling sharply. Last Thursday, over 9,700 people were tested positive. That number is almost halved in one week to less than 5,000 people now. The number of people with corona in hospitals has also fallen by more than 10% in one week. So much for the good news. The bad news is that the English variant of the virus is not only much more contagious, but is also expected to become dominant in the Netherlands, with all the consequences. So we have to go in a huge hurry with the voluntary vaccination. Should the English variant become more dominant here, as many people as possible must be voluntarily vaccinated in order to prevent a possible code of black. The speed isn't going well. It's a bit to be despondent about. I think 47 000 people have been vaccinated in one week, but there are still 200,000 vaccines in the freezer, while new loads are coming. We can't afford to be slow right now. Why haven't many more vaccines been used? Stock management can't be an excuse. It's crazy, as we heard from the briefing this morning, that the GGD can't put the first shot until the delivery of the second shot is certain, which means the puncture capacity is only in March or April at full strength. Do it differently, do it smarter. Then put that second shot later, just as happens in the United Kingdom. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? Surely it is too crazy for words that other countries can do it faster? Israel vaccinates an average of 64,000 people a day, Germany and Spain vaccinate an average of 44,000 people a day and Italy vaccinates 74,000 people a day. The Netherlands did not vaccinate 7,000 people a day last week. What a total lack of urgency. It's weird. I ask the cabinet why we too cannot vaccinate more people voluntarily, just like those other countries. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, we're going into a longer lockdown. Three weeks longer, the whole of the Netherlands is locked. This is disastrous for our economy and for many entrepreneurs and self-employed people. The closure of hotels and shops has, above all, led me to say that so many times I have led to a relocation and an increase in contamination in the home situation. Before closing the catering and shops, the number of home contaminations was 9.8%; now it is 35.6%. It is therefore, and will remain, unnecessary to close them. But if the cabinet insists on it, it does so, it seems, with 100% closure also includes 100% compensation for staff costs and the permanent burden on entrepreneurs. And please, we need to get rid of that nasty partner test for the self-employed. That's what we need, because if we don't, companies are gonna go down. Then there's the vaccination policy. In addition to the fact that the voluntary vaccination of people who want to do so really needs to be done much and much faster, the vulnerable elderly and those at risk must also be dealt with even faster. The average age of corona patients in the nursing ward is 67 years and in intensive care 64 years. So if we want to avoid a code black here, we will have to vaccinate these groups much faster. It is good that this minister has brought that group forward a bit. He did. But it's still not early enough. It's all going too slowly. Week 7 or week 8............................................................................................................................................. Then it takes three weeks for it to work, then it has to be repeated and then we are months away. My question to the Minister is therefore to allow the vulnerable elderly who live at home, but also other people at risk, to vaccinate earlier and to use all available vaccines for them. Go vaccination 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. This leads to less pressure on hospitals, and that is good for getting that regular care for people with heart problems back on track, or for people with cancer whose chemotherapy is now being postponed. Mr President, I will conclude. Finally, the curfew. Don't do it, cabinet. There is an approved Wilders motion, which, thanks to the support of D66, has won a majority in the Chamber, not to turn into a curfew. According to Mr Van Dissel, this curfew may add something to the sense of urgency, but that is disproportionate. So don't. I'm counting on my colleague from D66's straight back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister spoke yesterday at the press conference about feelings of impotence, frustration and despondency, which many people will recognize. I think that feeling is justified, because it takes a long time and it is heavy. At the same time you can see that there is an effect of the lockdown and that numbers are falling. However, my colleague, Mr Dijkhoff, also mentioned it, you can also see that the arrival of the British variant is putting everything back on focus. We have seen that in England and Ireland everything has actually gotten out of hand within a few weeks. It is therefore wise, and also inevitable, that the cabinet has decided to extend the lockdown. At the same time, it remains in the care of the question whether it is sufficient. I read yesterday's letter. In my opinion, a very important concern is the decreasing willingness to test and quarantine. The figures are simply worrying. Any strategy of testing, tracing and isolation, which Mr Asscher is always talking about, is actually in advance when people stop being tested when they have complaints, and stop going into quarantine if they have to. So I would also like to appeal to everyone here: stick to the measures and have you tested for complaints. And if you're gonna have to quarantine yourself, quarantine yourself. I think we all made that call at different times. But I would also like to ask the cabinet what more can be done to increase this willingness to test and quarantine. I also agree with Mr Dijkhoff on this point, who mentioned the number of flights from England. That's a little troubling. That way, you'll continue to import that British variant potential. I saw just before this debate that there are now additional steps being taken in Germany to impose travel restrictions and to impose more quarantine requirements on people coming from England. I'd like to hear from the Cabinet what it intends to do with this. Previous speakers also mentioned the curfew. The cabinet has indicated that under pressure from that British variant even that curfew is being considered, despite previous signals from a majority of the Chamber that do not want to. I think that this means is very explanatory, despite all the dilemmas, resistance and doubt that we all feel. Jaap van Dissel says it won't be in four or six weeks. But look how fast it's been in England. It's only a matter of time before that British variant becomes dominant here too. That's why you can't rule out that drug right now. What is the deadline for this urgent opinion from the OMT? And can the cabinet also indicate how this can be maintained? We have of course talked a lot here about the late start of vaccination, but a big start has been made. I'm glad to see there's a lot of acceleration in starting vaccination in nursing homes. This is also in line with the advice of the Health Council. A large part of last week's debate was about this. First this happens in the large nursing homes with Pfizer's vaccine, and then in the week after that also in the smaller one with Moderna's vaccine. But I am also going to ask whether the cabinet sees opportunities for further speeding up. I am not asking because I do not see how much is happening, but because this is just relevant in the race against the British variant. We need to give as many vaccines as possible as soon as possible. I should like to conclude with two final points. The first point, which is widely shared here, is that of the educational disadvantages. With the length of the closure of schools and home education, we can see that there are more and more concerns, and that aldermen are now calling for delays which are no longer catching up. The aldermen are asking for a national plan. I would like to know from the cabinet whether it is prepared to do even more to catch up. The final point, Mr President, is about the economy. I think it is quite right that the cabinet has announced a comprehensive package and that more needs to be done. Mr Dijkhoff has already mentioned the retail sector, the event industry and the start-ups. I would like to support this and also the questions about the guarantee fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	I have Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Kuzu. I say in advance that the interruptions must be short. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	I would like to know the following from the CDA Group. We now see what kind of misery a mutation can bring with it. Does the CDA think that if we see again that for example corona............................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	The past few months around mink and fur animals, of course, a lot has been done to stop it more quickly, precisely because of these kinds of mutations.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	With the support of the CDA, the cabinet has left millions of mink in cages. While we knew they were a breeding pond for corona and that there could be a mutation. Then you can say what the VWS minister said: the chances of you being infected by your neighbor are greater than a mink. But the risk of mutation was present. Now the CDA itself sees that that can be very annoying. That means, as far as the Party for Animals is concerned, that you immediately put that risk to zero. The CDA was against that all the time. This is not the last time we are faced with such zoonoses. When is the CDA going to change position, support the Party for Animals and say "this kind of thing must be avoided at all times and the Cabinet must have legal instruments that are sufficient"?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	There are, of course, many reasons why mutations are taking place. That's what happens with so many infections. We are now talking about a British and a South African variant of the mutation, which I believe is currently being examined how it happened, where it originated and in what way. Then about the mink. When a dangerous variant popped up, there was............................................................................................................................................................. When the Animal Party talks about a legal instrument, I say: I would like to see Mrs Ouwehand's proposals. I do not know exactly what she is proposing; that transcends my knowledge at the moment. I always want to look at that, but I am not going to say here: make a proposal, I am going to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	I am glad that Mr Heerma is trying to draw attention to the educational disadvantages. In fact, that is not new, because my party raised this point in March and April. We did see the calls last week. Last week, Mr Heerma and his party supported the DENK motion calling for the identification of disadvantaged students and their physical education. In the meantime, we haven't heard from the cabinet at all. How does Mr Heerma feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	I recognise that DENK also calls for attention to be paid to this. The Labour Party, GroenLinks, SP and D66, all kinds of parties have drawn attention to the educational disadvantages, because we all have that concern. The aldermen are now asking for a national plan. I think that's wise. I find it a little complicated in this time of crisis that the cabinet hasn't heard from itself in a week. By the way, the letter we received last night or last night lists what money has been allocated to catch up with the educational deficits. So it's not like nothing's gonna happen. But I wonder, like Mr Kuzu and those aldermen, whether it is enough. Because it is not only damaging for those children if permanent delays and the risk of inequality is increasing, but it is also, in my view, bad for the economy. Hence my question as to whether more should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	In that sense, we agree, but it is not new. It's not from the past week. It is a point on which the Chamber has been speaking unanimously for months. We've alerted the cabinet to the problem. However, we can see that even the aldermen are calling the bell now by asking for a plan that will finally get some attention. You're a government party, unlike our party. So something really needs to happen at that point. I sincerely believe that we do not have time to make any plans now, so that we can continue to catch up. Something concrete needs to be done now. So I'm gonna ask the CDA if we're gonna wait until there's a plan and until everyone agrees. Or are we really going to do something to combat the problems and not allow those delays to continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	One is that we have repeatedly called for attention to be paid to this. So hundreds of millions have already been allocated. But I don't bring the point in for nothing. I also think that more needs to be done. That's what the aldermen are calling for. There are plenty of ideas for that. I saw this week, for example, that in England the BBC plays an active role in this. I happened to notice that Mrs Ploumen tweeted about that today. In this way, public service broadcasting may also be able to do more to help overcome these delays. But I also think that the cabinet should do more than has been done so far. That's why I'm asking for that national plan those aldermen are asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. A longer lockdown is needed, but also feels like a sledgehammer. This requires a number of things: better compliance with current measures, good testing and rapid vaccination, attention to education and a stronger economic support package. The cabinet must first of all focus on better compliance, because it is proving difficult, as we can see when working at home. At the SZW Inspection many reports come from employees who are forced to come to the office. What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? Mr. Chairman. As a shovel on top of the lockdown, the cabinet is considering a curfew, a huge restriction of our freedom and also complicated. Many exceptions are needed for people who work at night or at night, such as people in care or delivery services. And think of people who work at home all day long, have to teach their children at home and love to get some air in the evening to keep up this hard time. Or think of people who are single and are dragging themselves through this lockdown thanks to thrifty social contacts, such as having dinner together with a family member or close friend. Moreover, a curfew only has effect if it is maintained. Mayors, boas, cops don't feel like it. They say, "We are already walking on eggs; maintaining a curfew is at the expense of our work during the day." That is why I say to the cabinet: first look at the alternatives, which also have more support. First of all, take those dozens of fireplace flights from the United Kingdom to the Netherlands and test all passengers on board as soon as possible. But don't start curfew now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	"Don't start now, start with other things first." I do hear a slight difference from when you said, with conviction in the debate, in my opinion, at the beginning of November, together with me and others: do not. Then we also helped that motion to a majority. Does this mean you're still saying don't? Or are you saying don't do it now, but maybe next week you will?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	No. In my view, I indicated this in October or November when we talked about it. 'Not now' is not only not today; I do not see it necessary next week, also in view of Van Dissel's advice. But if we're in London situations in a month or two months' time, I think you should always weigh all options with open sight. But at the moment I find a curfew not proportionate and not effective for the situation we are in in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u21	My group is always against it. Okay, there may be a nuance in it, but I would like to sum up the D66 colleague when I say that unless there is a situation with Irish and English conditions, with ambulances in a traffic jam for the first aid with people who are going to eat air, so until we get into such a situation, cabinet, do not do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u22	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. Last Monday I went to work at the test pavilion of the GGD in Nijmegen. A pavilion with a capacity of 3,000 to 4,000 tests a day, impressive. But that day, the counter stalled at a few hundred tests. There seems to be a decreasing willingness to test among humans. What else can the Cabinet do about this? And can there be more proactive testing, as in Lansingerland, as the capacity is present? Mr. Chairman. It's good that we started vaccination, but I have some concerns about that as well. Because up to three times, the Health Council said, "Start with the elderly and the vulnerable." But this group hasn't got a single shot yet. In the meantime, the Minister is also unable to keep the appointments with general practitioners. Can the Minister promise that general practitioners and assistants who are going to vaccinate vulnerable people will also get a shot themselves as soon as they start working with these groups? Mr President, I come to education. For all the efforts of the cabinet are fortunately aimed at reopening the primary schools, the daycare centres and the BSOs at the end of January. That's good news for all those kids. But my group is also deeply concerned about the increasing and continuing learning disadvantages that are now emerging among students and students. Great concerns about growing and lasting inequality. That is why I ask the Cabinet to make an investment in catching up and supporting programmes to prevent educational disadvantages or to eliminate them in the coming months. As far as D66 is concerned, we are also going to compensate students for the delay in their studies due to the corona crisis. Finally, Mr President. The extension of the measures also requires an extension of the aid package. This must be made clear quickly, and this must also be generous, because entrepreneurs are incredibly difficult, in all sectors. But we also need to prepare for the moment when the economy can open up again. I am getting too many signals from entrepreneurs and business associations that these talks are not going well right now. I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. The uncertainty in the cultural and creative sectors is high. Event and cancellation insurance is no longer closed, and as a result, it risks losing a whole season of hundreds of thousands of people who suffer; working people, but also people who enjoy those events. I ask the Cabinet to prevent this, for example with a guarantee scheme for the event sector. Our country should also be able to look forward to a nice summer, because once we have enough people vaccinated and the numbers are down, we all deserved that party or festival very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u26	They're looking forward to E.O. Junior Day in Course K, Chairman. Mr. Chairman. It is an extremely worrying situation. What's next? That's actually the big question. The whole idea of curfew is not the first thing I think about, especially since we still see flights coming from the UK, for example. In this respect, I agree with the previous speakers. Twenty flights from the United Kingdom. We have to be honest: the world is connected. People will travel, there will have to be a necessity why you might have to be with your family and why you should go to another country, but twenty flights that are necessary? I don't believe any of it. This really means moving forward, imposing further travel restrictions and drastically reducing the number of flights to and from Schiphol Airport, but also really drastic. When I look at how we stand now and what measures we have already taken, I am extremely shocked by the figures on how to comply with the quarantine. We did discuss this with each other in the spring. Then it was about imposing this quarantine, among other things. I myself said about this at the time: I am not in favour of it at the moment; you must first have sufficient testing capacity and take all the other measures to stimulate it, for example the quarantine fee, the coaches and the organisation of aid. Many of these things are now organized, although not everything, but they are not being followed up. What are the government's plans to do further to ensure that this is done? Because of the people who tested positive themselves, less than 20% are quarantined. That's the number that scares me the most. The moment you're sick yourself, it's important that you actually go into quarantine. If you don't, you're gonna put the whole society in danger, and so the danger is that we're all gonna have to go on lockdown longer. I'd like to hear more from the cabinet. Then education. I agree with all the arguments that have been made to ensure that we are catching up. That calls for additional education programmes. But I'd like to ask you something else. This year's backlog, especially the eighth group, is no longer easy to catch up with. As far as I am concerned, this means that there should be as many broad or double school advice as possible. I would ask the cabinet to talk to primary and secondary education to ensure that there are as many double school advice as possible, i.e. mavo/havo or havo/vwo, and that secondary education will do everything possible to ensure that as many bridge classes as possible will come from September. I notice the pressure on parents and children who now have to make the transition to secondary education, because everything now needs to be shoved in this year. We need to move that moment of choice, that moment of selection, backwards and not put unnecessary pressure on education, on children or on their parents. And then vaccinate it. I welcome the results we are seeing now, but I still have great concerns. I was also impressed by what I saw last week when I was with my colleague Suzanne Kröger at the Catharina Hospital in Eindhoven. What I liked to see were the people who worked there, got the vaccine and said: it's not just that I'm feeling protected from the virus now; you're almost getting a shot of hope, because it's finally another step we're going to take. That has made me even more motivated to make sure that we move even faster. I have some questions, and there's my concern. Soon we'll be able to inoculate in the nursing homes, with the most vulnerable people. That's important. It's gonna start from the 18th, with 12 houses. On January 25th there will be ten houses and then we will inoculate 140,000 people. I want to know when that's in time. That's not defined right now. I'm worried about the Moderna vaccine. It has always been said that it is easier to use than Pfizer. But now I read in the documents that the Moderna vaccine, unlike Pfizer, can only be moved once. What does the fact that you can only move it once if you want to use it properly for people who live at home? And how's the surgery going to enter all 60-plussers? That's large-scale. In what way is that organized? Are there enough locations? Are there enough people? Is the infrastructure in order? Finally, Mr. Chairman, in ten seconds. I understand that it is now dangerous to continue with all kinds of experiments, because we do not know so much about the British virus. But the opposite is also true if we are not going to see what is possible with quick tests and not to see how we get that test society in order. It's also a way to get out of the lockdown. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to look for as many opportunities as possible to experiment within everything that is reasonable and safe. Measuring is knowing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our country is in a terrible crisis. We're in the middle of a really heavy lockdown. We heard yesterday that's gonna take a while. If we can believe the OMT, it would only be possible to relax at the beginning of March if the number of infections continues to fall as it is now. That's a very strong message. In the meantime, we have a cabinet that held half the evening yesterday about its own future. That's unheard of. The main concern is the British version. A lot of MPs have talked about this. We wonder what this could mean for the relaxation of measures. When we see the images from England and Ireland, I think everyone is immediately convinced that we must do everything we can to prevent that horror scenario from becoming reality. But what does it mean for these relaxations when we see what the British variant does with the R-value? It's shooting up. Also, the infection is so much greater. Does the cabinet have enough of that? What's the statue of that? Are we sufficiently prepared for that? Mr. Chairman. The problems and concerns are great. We're really gonna have to hang out as a society. That's heavy as hell. But the cabinet must also make fewer mistakes, because unfortunately too many mistakes are still being made. Then I'll get to the vaccination strategy. We discussed this in detail during the previous debate. It is very nice that the vaccination has started now, but we see that it is not going well yet. This week, the Health Council advised for the fourth time that "almost begged" to please start injecting the most vulnerable elderly in our society: the people living in a nursing home. Because we are now in a situation where we hear that people who work at a care facility but are not in contact with a patient or with someone who needs care, because they work in the kitchen, for example, are already vaccinated, while the first nursing home resident in the Netherlands still needs to be pricked. My question to the cabinet is therefore how. How is that possible? Will we really be able to vaccinate that group from Monday? Because that's the promise. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to talk about the schools. This crisis is very severe, especially among our young people and our children. We see what closing the schools does to all children in the Netherlands. That is very intense, especially with children who are in a home situation that isn't very nice. We are therefore very curious to see what the cabinet intends to do to help all the parents who are now trying as much as possible to shape home education. What's up? We also see reports that the people who can afford it, because they have a lot of money, are hiring someone who, for example, can come home a few hours a day to help with home education. But most people can't do that at all. They're trying to keep all the balls up now. That's gonna go for a second, maybe. But when we see how long this might take, people just won't last very long. So what can be done? Mr. Chairman. I also have a question about schools and the 1.5 meters in those schools. We saw, I think last week or this week, OMT members say: we knew by the end of this summer that maintaining the 1.5 metres in schools was important. My question to the cabinet is whether the cabinet knew this as well. If so, why didn't the Chamber know? And if so, why did the cabinet ever decide to let go of that for the schools? Finally, about the schools, President. Too much is now being hoped that it will be better later. We now hope that the schools will be able to open first and faster. Yes, of course we all hope so. But isn't one of the lessons of this crisis that perhaps too often there has been hope for change and that there hasn't been any forward thinking about that change? So my question is, where is the cabinet? Is the cabinet prepared to work with the schools, not over the heads of the schools, but together with the schools, to draw up a plan for how education can be designed in a safe way? 'Cause of course we all hope so, but we can't lean on that. The fact that the schools are closed is so intense for so many kids. We really need to work with the schools to see how that could be done in a safe way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We didn't get the real hard message last night in the press conference, but it's in the 95th OMT opinion. I quote: 'The time at which the current measures reach ten EC shots per day: end of February'. That's gonna take a really long time. "The time at which 40 hospitalizations per day are reached: early March. The time at which three ic shots per day are reached: 30 March.' This has not even been taken into account by all my fellow Members, who have already talked about it with the devastating and, what we understand, super-infectious mutation virus from Great Britain and South Africa. This means that we will be in a lockdown or in a form of a lockdown for a long time, resulting in immense damage. The damage to our economy will be the subject of a separate debate next week, at the request of the Labour Party, to discuss aid measures. Because it really takes a lot more to make sure that entrepreneurs, people from the culture, the event industry, the catering industry and the self-employed get through this crisis well. The support package needs to be expanded considerably, because every day that we don't have the virus under control, hundreds of people lose their jobs. I am glad that Mr Dijkhoff made such a plea, so I expect his support for our plans next week. Mr. Chairman. For our children too, the damage is immense. They've already had serious delays in that first lockdown. Who's gonna stand up for them anyway? We haven't heard from the cabinet about this. The Chamber has often talked about it. Motions have been passed, but the cabinet is far from satisfactory. Schools are left to their own devices, and so are our children. Now finally come up with a plan, I call upon, to actively track down and tackle the backwardness of children. Give the NPO extra budget to take care of school TV, educational programs, like the BBC. Give parents a corona leave. Make sure that children can learn, that there are weekend schools, that there is a longer learning time, so that all children get all the opportunities, including in this corona crisis. Help schools with how to re-open in a responsible way. Invest in the crisis jobs. Make sure that they are also available for education, so that our children can catch up with the learning disadvantages. Mr. Chairman. I was very pleased to hear that Mr Heerma read the proposals of the Labour Party. Mr Jetten and others also spoke about it. Once again, I assume that our plans can count on support. Mr. Chairman. The question is, of course, whether the cabinet is doing enough, especially now that we see how quickly it is going to go wrong in the United Kingdom. I wish everyone there very much strength, the care staff here but also there. I call on the Cabinet to do more now, so as not to be late again. Go vaccinate faster. Follow the advice of the Health Council on this. Tie up the airplane. Test all incoming passengers mandatory, not only those who come by plane, but also those who come by train and the truck drivers. Make sure people stay healthy and don't contaminate others. Come up with a quarantine duty. Make sure there is income support and people get support in practical matters. Make a serious effort to enforce the measures. Speak actively to employers who allow their staff to come to work or even sometimes require them to do so when this is not necessary. Mr. Chairman. There's a light at the end of the tunnel. It's gonna be spring again, like every year. We look forward to being able to dance again until it becomes light, but we are not yet that far. We're gonna have some tough months. The cabinet must do everything it can to ensure that our economy, and especially our children, are able to survive this crisis and that there is no lost corona generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u32	Madam President. The extension of the lockdown is unfortunately necessary, but this extension is very difficult. We notice the social-emotional impact and the consequences are particularly great for young people, students and parents with young children. Quite rightly, many colleagues are also asking about educational disadvantages. Then I would like to ask myself about not only the short-term educational disadvantages but also those in the long term. What do we do to prevent it from happening? The OMT states that there is no need to tighten the lockdown, provided that everyone adheres to the measures. But that is precisely the problem, also looking at the willingness to test and the way people handle the quarantine obligation. 30% of the people who experience complaints go into quarantine and only 47% if a roommate has complaints. And not to mention the 70% that will not be quarantined on return from a high-risk area. How is it that so many flights from the UK arrive here every day? How do we deal with these risks? How do we limit those risks? The OMT does come up with a number of targeted measures to reduce infection among young people. Curfew's on the table. We have heard several colleagues speak about it. I also call it the buddy system and social bubbles. For the opinion on curfew, the OMT refers to previous opinions. Then why do we still need emergency advice? At least what my group needs is a numerical basis to see that this would be effective and has added value. How much does the R go down if there's a curfew? But above all, what are we doing to improve the enforcement of the current measures? Because that seems to me to be the problem. Schools are partly closed, as are childcare, and we see parents with young children getting into trouble. Work goes on, but you gotta take care of your kids. You gotta keep all those balls in the air, and that's a big deal. This can create enormous pressure at the risk of falling out, stress and relationships under pressure. The rack is out in many cases. Now the CNV and other trade unions have made a proposal for corona leave. Of course, that's very sympathetic. For example, leave for parents with care tasks is already available in Germany and Belgium. Couldn't the cabinet talk to social partners? Could it not encourage them to talk about this and see if there are more opportunities for leave in those appointments? Warm support for the good choice of the cabinet to increase economic support. It seems to me to be a good idea, I believe, that the PvdA Group suggested that we talk about this separately. Then there's the vaccination strategy. We're actually in the middle of a match between the vaccine and the virus. It is very nice that the vaccinations have started with a lot of speed but several groups have the idea that the cabinet has not complied with the agreements, which means that, for example, general practitioners are on the line. I would like a response to that. At the same time, I understand that given the uncertainty of order and volumes of deliveries, more and more groups in the future will find themselves in a different place in the puzzle. So that is very complicated and that requires the cabinet not to promise things that can't make it happen, but it also calls on us as a Chamber to show restraint when it comes to specific groups which would then have to be put forward individually. So let's test the criterion "vulnerable first," follow the advice of the Health Council well and use the vaccine deliveries as cleverly as possible. Finally, the worldwide supply and distribution of vaccines. Last week, I asked for attention to be paid to the spread of vaccines worldwide. Most of Africa would not have access to vaccines until 2023. In yesterday's letter we get an explanation from the cabinet about what the Netherlands contributes. That goes through COVAX, an international alliance that we also contribute to. But it takes 7 billion, and so far there's 2 billion inside. That's not how we're gonna get there. In this way, only 20% of the population in developing countries can be vaccinated in 2021. How do we get there? Why does the Netherlands choose to allow the distribution of vaccines to run only via COVAX? You could also share the information and knowledge. That would also be a way of achieving a fairer distribution. In addition, it is good that the cabinet says: if we have additional vaccines, we want to share them with countries that do not have them at all. In addition, I have one final question. Aid organisations are considering launching an emergency action involving the use of people taking a vaccine. It can be said to them: if you take a vaccine yourself and perhaps pay for it, then also make a vaccine possible for someone else in the world. What good would it be if the cabinet wanted to facilitate and encourage this action. My question is: is the cabinet prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you, Mr President. There's a lot to worry about. They have everything to do with the fact that there seems to be a new variant, the British variant, as it is called, which would be even more contagious and which we do not see too hopeful figures about. Mr. Chairman. My first question is: what does this teach the cabinet about the way they have behaved in the debate on mink breeding? There was always the answer from the VWS minister: well, the chances of getting in touch with a mink are not so great, so that will all come off. But the point is that there can be a mutation that, once it is around, can no longer be controlled. We must avoid that at all times. So what has the Cabinet learned at this point? Mr. Chairman. Now that there is a change going on that seems to be more contagious, I understand that the cabinet is concerned and that the cabinet is trying to take measures to prevent us from getting stuck with this variant. But the question remains, of course, whether the measures are fair and do enough justice to the sense that the cabinet wants to radiate: together against corona. Where was the outrage at a protest-turned party in Duindorp? Why is it not maintained there, when the cabinet now says: yes, but things are so bad that we might need a curfew? Other colleagues have already mentioned this: why are there still flights coming in from the UK? Today six came from London, eight from other cities in England, eight from Scotland and four from England. The cabinet can't be serious, can it? The Animal Party once again pleads for a no-fly. You can work with exemptions for when it's really necessary, but this is unjust and untenable. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is also deliberately looking away from the situation in slaughterhouses, a proven fireplace of infections. We read that the NVWA says: from the point of view of animal welfare. The slaughter of pigs should be higher than normal. Why don't you let that work on you? Because of your well-being, you have to die. What happened here? Last year, the cabinet had every opportunity to reduce pig farming, so that you would not have ended up in this situation. But what does the Cabinet do? Lobbying at China: Can that market please open up to our pig bites again? They will knowingly endanger those people in the slaughterhouses. More people now need to work in slaughterhouses, while the cabinet's call is to work at home as much as possible. Yeah, that's not gonna work if you work at NVWA. Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the fundamental point: corona is a symptom of a way of looking at the world that puts us in great danger. The contempt for animals and nature causes the cabinet to accept large risks of new pandemics almost laughing. There was an international summit last week on the biodiversity crisis. I have some nice quotes from that. I read that Angela Merkel said: "We know that protecting forests also protects health. When people destroy forests, destroy natural habitats and previously pressure untouched ecosystems, we increase the risk of pandemics." Boris Johnson said, "Don't forget that the corona pandemic is the result of a imbalance in the relationship between humans and nature." And what did our Prime Minister say? He said, "You know what's really important? A level playing field for companies." Then you didn't understand and then you don't protect the Netherlands and the rest of the world from another pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u35	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u36	Madam President. Coronamoe(d), with the "d" in brackets: that is the catchy title of a recent edition of the Health & Society Council. Many people are coronamoe and what is needed is courage, creativity, responsibility. The council calls for the virus not to be the only thing that matters. I quote: 'Even now that the second wave is in full swing, the time has come when the risk of contamination was the only measure of things; in addition to the essential task of protecting public health, there are clearly different values, such as the values of social and physical contact, freedom and security.' In this broad perspective, my group feels very at home. The balancing of all these values requires political choices, and I admit that these are very difficult. The pressure on acute care is high and the threat of the British variant is real. It is tempting and understandable to use as large and coarse guns as possible to fight the virus. At the same time, I would like to quote from the end of the year session that unambiguous, general measures are based on the motto 'better safe than sorry' and do not show what the price is that we pay for clarity. Precisely the expectation that we will be bound by far-reaching measures for a longer period of time, as was shown by yesterday's decision-making, makes it even more necessary to recognise where the existing measures are most difficult and to consider increasingly critically whether measures can be more intelligent, more sophisticated. That is what I would like to call upon the cabinet to do. Take education, for example. We are all deeply concerned about the negative effects of distance education: learning delays, domestic violence increases, inequality between children increases, parents have difficulty keeping balls in the air, especially when they have a large family or a child who needs extra attention. If it takes longer, the question arises as to whether distance learning is still justified and proportionate. As far as the SGP is concerned, more children must return to school as soon as possible, starting with primary and special education. I ask the Cabinet to consider how it can be possible to securely reopen the schools as soon as possible, not from the idea of anything or nothing, but through gradual steps. Mr. Chairman. We've talked about curfew before. It is a very far-reaching measure. We have said that, and we are still saying that we are against it. If you sit at home all day long for work, study or home education, a simple walk in the evening is an important outlet. A lot of people now feel lonelier than before the crisis, according to research. Actually, you're cutting out a lot of social contacts. I would therefore ask the cabinet to consider, in consultation with youth organisations, whether smarter, more targeted ways can be found to reduce contamination opportunities. I would also like to join all those who have asked: why are travel movements from the United Kingdom not being further restricted? Are all these flights really necessary? Mr. Chairman. The next point is the economy. It is right that additional support measures should be used. But here too, we say: if necessary, and there are, of course, reasons for extending far-reaching measures, is there therefore no more creativity and refinement possible, for example, to allow certain companies a take-out function by offering room for purchase by appointment? Is the list of essential stores also being considered critically? Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the subject of vaccination. The Health Council has advised several times to vaccinate the elderly first. My question is: what consequence does it have for those groups of vulnerable elderly people that now all kinds of health care providers are the first ones? Finally on this subject, and that concludes my contribution: everyone is rightly left free to choose whether or not to vaccinate. But an additional question is: are there also options for people when it comes to the question of what type of vaccine they want? Suppose there are objections to certain types of vaccine. In the end, this could also increase the support for vaccination. So I would also like to comment on that point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mr. Chairman. More and more people in this country are rightly wondering where we have ended up. Are we still doing the right thing? Are the appropriate measures being taken? And does the gravity of the measures outweigh what we are actually trying to do, namely to fight the virus, to protect vulnerable groups and to relieve the pressure on care? And it's none of all three. The numbers are rising, the hospitals are overcrowded and people's freedom is severely restricted. More and more people in the country are also wondering: what does my future look like? What does this mean for my job, for my business, for the people I love, for my children? Mr. Chairman. Today we have the 22nd Corona debate again. There have been 95 OMT meetings and the umpteenth press conference last night did not bring us a future perspective. No long-term vision, no action, no direction, no clarity, while the Netherlands will soon regret the one-year anniversary of the pandemic, the cabinet will again come up with a number of doomdoers. I heard them again today. "There is light at the end of the tunnel', and then again to find that that lamp is the headlamp of a counter-beam. "We have to do it together," it is sometimes said, but in the end everyone is dependent on themselves. "We have to be patient for a while," but in reality, people's patience is long gone because they keep making sacrifices. Mr. Chairman. A lot of people are just done with it. People live from press conference to press conference, from lockdown end date to delayed date. Entrepreneurs live from support package to support package, and the future doesn't look bright either. In the past year error was stacked on error. I call it a mask policy. It wasn't necessary at first, then again. At first, kids couldn't get infected, now they could. And then I hear another bummer in "K." "We need to find out if the British variant is contagious among children." Then I wonder, why don't you make sure? Why don't we assume the British scenario? People get frustrated, people become despondent and people don't like it anymore. And that is because of the unclear communication and the total lack of vision of the future. I wonder: do the people in trade-K actually realize that? Mr. Chairman. We also notice so little improvement. While people in the country have been making sacrifices for a year, people have become coronamoe. This has an effect on everyone. DENK is seriously concerned about the educational disadvantages. The big cities in particular are now calling the bell. DENK filed a motion last week to identify disadvantaged students and to provide physical education as soon as possible. This motion was adopted unanimously. The implementation has still not started. In the meantime, the delays are only getting worse and we do not hear from the cabinet about them. There's no time to lose. So, cabinet, get on with this today! Mr. Chairman. A second point that DENK is very concerned about is the division that arises in society due to the virus. In doing so, we really need to learn lessons from the past in order not to make the same mistakes. When the financial crisis broke out in 2009, which led to the economic crisis in 2010 and beyond, middle income and low income in particular had to pay the cost of the crisis. And now the cabinet is jamming billions through it. That is necessary and justified. We support that, but in the end it will have to be paid at some point. Politicians should not then make the same mistake by billing the people most affected by the crisis. That is why we must already lay the foundations for dealing with the consequences of this crisis. Is the cabinet finally prepared to work on a long-term strategy for how we deal with this? Mr President, all in all: the deadly cocktail of Christian Democrats, who do not believe in the feasibility of society, and liberals, who assume only their own responsibility and let everything go, has brought us where the Netherlands is now. But luckily, it won't take long. Next Friday, D66, probably out of profiling urge, together with a number of dissident CDA's, will put an end to the mandate of this klungelkabinet. That's what it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Four times. Four times, the Health Council advised that the elderly population should be the first to inoculate, because this group is the most on the ic and is the biggest pressure on the hospital. Okay, we're gonna put the corona staff first, but we're not gonna let the cafeteria and office staff pop in, too, are we? In today's schedule, it's more than half a million, before 60-plussers get their turn sometime in February. In this respect, there is something wrong with the moral compass of people who go first, while there is scarcity and therefore vulnerable people have to wait even longer. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the residents of the nursing homes, the people in the care of the disabled, the general practitioners and also the group of 60 years and older are vaccinated at the same time. On Monday 11 January, the first Moderna vaccines arrived. As the schedule now stands, inoculations from the first group for which Moderna is deployed will only start on 25 January: residents of small-scale nursing homes and institutions for people with disabilities, by general practitioners. That means the vaccines are on the shelf for two weeks instead of protecting people. How is that possible? I find it incomprehensible. During this morning's technical briefing it appeared that the Moderna vaccine can only be transported and opened once before you can use it in the home situation, without the other doses to be taken in the bottle becoming unusable. This means that the group of non-mobile home residents must come to a central place if we are to avoid this waste. How are we gonna handle the transport? We find it incomprehensible that the cabinet has abandoned the ban on the age criterion when it comes to code black. That causes fear in many elderly people. We get a lot of e-mails about that. We continue to believe that any triage should always be about vulnerability and survival, in short, about medical criteria, and that it should never be about age alone. Unfortunately, with the extension of the current lockdown, we have to note that the current aid measures are no longer adequate. The water is on the lips of larger, but also much smaller, entrepreneurs. They're stuck with an advanced debt store and shopkeepers have unsold store supplies, while the new collection has to be bought in. Many small sole proprietorships are limited or not eligible for existing fixed-cost schemes due to the thresholds. Turnover calculation per quarter or per month may mean the difference between aid or no aid. 50PLUS calls for an extended, more accessible fixed-cost compensation scheme and a better, wider retail stock compensation scheme. Now, if we do not support entrepreneurs, big and small, that means that many companies are going to fall over. Then as a government, you've been pumping all those tens of billions into the economy for nothing over the last few months. What does the government think of the idea that the government is taking a golden share of companies, as suggested in the media? There are things you can see coming at you and you have to prepare for, like the election. About 10% of voters are now saying that, in this situation in March, they will not go to the polls if the corona virus is still the same as it is today. After the technical briefing, we have only become more gloomy about the fact that the situation will not be normalized in March. Germany and Belgium are already assuming this. If the elections should be postponed, then that decision must be taken quickly so that what needs to be regulated can be arranged. It is irresponsible to do so only a few weeks before the elections. When does the Prime Minister expect to take this decision? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u42	Mr. Chairman. A minister who puts too stringent measures in place will never be held accountable. But a minister who tries to minimize the enormous damage and thereby takes risks is himself politically at risk. And that's exactly what's going on here. A lockdown seems solid leadership, but in the end it isn't. It's a flight into a safe political choice. The damage of this lack of leadership is enormous. We should hold this cabinet responsible for that. Mr. Chairman. The WHO has been clear about lockdowns: "The WHO advises against lockdowns as a primary means to control the virus. (...) The only moment a lockdown can justify is to buy time so that you can reorganise. But in general we advise against lockdowns." Research in Canada shows that the damage caused by a lockdown is ten times greater than the positive effects. The most strict lockdown in Europe, in Ireland from October to December, corrected the number of tests that were taken, had no effect on the spread of the virus. But the cost of this lockdown was 1.5 billion euros and a loss of 150,000 jobs. If all this is known, how is it possible that this cabinet still opts for a lockdown and hasn't been scaling up the care for ten months? I understand very well that you didn't train ICU nurses from one day to the next, but if you had started in March, you would have been a long way away by now. What are you saying to all those SME entrepreneurs who are going bankrupt, despite the few thousand euros of public support, and to all those thousands of entrepreneurs who are not getting any support at all, because they have the wrong SBI code, have just started or do not comply with the SME test? What do you say to all those cancer patients who are not being treated, and to those who are not now able to use alternative treatments? As far as the Forum for Democracy is concerned, we will immediately lift the lockdown, scale up the ic capacity and ensure that older people and vulnerable people are protected. Let us stop destroying SMEs by this harmful policy. Let's stop locking up healthy people who aren't at risk. Give people their freedom back. Mr. Chairman. The effect of the lockdown on students and students is also catastrophic. A study in the British Medical Journal shows that closing schools and universities in addition to self-insulation, quarantine and the one-and-a-half meter rule can even lead to a higher mortality rate. After the first lockdown in March, it was concluded that the utility of closing schools is missing and that it is even harmful for children. The consequences of a lockdown are not only learning retardation, but also anxiety, depression, obesity, loneliness, sleep problems, child abuse and sometimes even suicide. Are these side effects taken into account? Shouldn't we just conclude that it's unreasonable to lock up completely healthy young people when we now know that this has no effect on the virus and not on them? Research has shown that children are not more comprehensible for the British mutation. Mr. Chairman. Last week, the VWS Minister indicated that we cannot stop the corona measures for the time being, despite the vaccine, because someone who has been vaccinated may become less ill, but can still be contagious and transmit the virus. Given that people under 65 years of age are barely affected by the virus without medical indication, would it not be wise to vaccinate only elderly and vulnerable people? Mr. Chairman. The social pressure on health care workers to be vaccinated is being increased, so that there is actually a covert vaccination obligation. What's the Minister gonna do about this? Mr. Chairman. We keep 17.4 million people in captivity to protect a small number of people. Of course, we must protect this vulnerable group, but there are plenty of other solutions that are not harmful to society. Because life is more than just not dying. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u43	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr. Chairman. The social disruption is huge. Young people are restricted in their freedom and the elderly and vulnerable must wait too long for a vaccine. Older people are also faced with the release of a ban on age discrimination at the ic; a low point. In the future, a frightening government deficit will have to be eliminated. There are sick people who don't go to a doctor right now. Care capacity must therefore be increased in any case. The previous Cabinets have cut short-sightedly and irresponsiblely. And then the entrepreneurs. They're watching their life's work go to waste. I would like to call on the Minister of EZK to be invited to the forthcoming debates. Madam President. What really worries me is that the government's dependence is wearing off. It's up to the government to solve it all, and the public can't do anything anymore. Does the Prime Minister have an active reminder of his statement "build back better"? What does the Prime Minister mean by that? Is he talking to world leaders who use the same words? How do we get out of the crisis? Many people want to live and grow up in freedom and are not dependent on government. That is why I once again express my concerns about democracy and the elections. The OMT announced today that it would probably not be possible to relax until March. The British variant has now surfaced in The Hague and the measures have also been extended in Belgium. Germany is considering a lockdown until early April. Underneath that stellar, many new parties have to arrange the collection of statements of support. Voters do not understand that this cabinet obliges the supporters of dozens of new parties to send across the country to collect 30 signatures in 20 districts and drag citizens into town halls. In these circumstances, that is too much of an obstacle. That is why I would call for the elections to be postponed. To that end, I shall table a motion in the second term. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u45	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u46	Mr President, thank you. At 854 nursing homes covid is currently established. Over the past two weeks, this has happened at 271 new locations. Many health care workers are also infected. There is a lot of disease loss, the water is on the lips and the army is used in various locations to keep the care alive. Caregivers who are vaccinated do not become ill or less often, but they may still become infected and contagious for their environment. Why is RIVM advice for the use of FFP2 masks limited to hospital care workers? Why is a surgical mouth mask of type IIR recommended for the rest of the care? Mr. Chairman. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control advises every healthcare worker working with covid patients to wear an FFP2 mask. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration recommends all medical care professionals to wear an N95 mask with the same protection as FFP2. The WHO, the World Health Organisation, also recommends the care staff to FFP2 or higher. In France: FFP2 or above; made publicly available. In Germany, in the Land of Bavaria, FFP2 masks are mandatory even in shops and public transport. The masks are available in abundance, said the Bavarian Prime Minister Söder yesterday. In Austria FFP2 masks are even required when skiing, namely in the ski lift. And in the Netherlands, the use of FFP2 masks is recommended only for hospital care workers, or for high-risk treatments, which do not include intensive care of a proven covid patient, according to RIVM. Can the Netherlands stop being stubborn? Especially now, with the threat of a highly contagious British variant. Will the Minister undertake that, instead of the surgical mouth masks, minimum FFP2 masks will now be advised for all caregivers and caregivers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u47	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I understand the cabinet needs a 45-minute suspension. I hear the Prime Minister saying that many questions have been asked, but those questions were predictable, so the cabinet could have prepared itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u48	There was 45 minutes of speaking time, but a lot of questions were asked at that time. At least we need half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u49	Good. I'm suspending the meeting for 30 minutes, until 4:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u50	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mr. Chairman. I would like to divide it up so that the Minister of the United States of America will, in a moment, focus on questions about vaccination and on a number of questions about testing policy, including in relation to traffic from the United Kingdom. He will address questions raised by various parties about the UK's movements. The Minister for Medical Care will take care of the questions directly related to the situation in hospitals. For my part, I will deal with three issues. 1. Yesterday's measures. 2. Education. 3. The economy. And then a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u53	Then I'll start with yesterday. I'm not going to repeat the entire press conference, and the letter has seen you. I think that everyone here is aware of the seriousness of the situation and that with the British variant we really have a very complicated issue and we have to do everything we can to deal with it. That is also why we have now seriously asked the Outbreak Management Team to come up with an additional advice as soon as possible on the issue of curfew. Mr Segers asked me why an urgent opinion was requested and what I would like to do with it. In fact, the answer was decided in the question, because it is true that we want to support it well, also to ensure that it gives us an insight into the effects of the curfew, for example for the reproduction factor. That is very important. Are there any equivalent alternatives? I think they're even more frightening. I suspect that is an equivalent alternative, but we're going to see that you have to say to everyone: just stay home and don't receive anyone anymore. I don't know. We're gonna see what equal alternatives are. I understand very well that there is a great deal of objection to such a curfew; I hear Mr Jetten and Mr Wilders talking about it. But I have to point it out anyway. Look at the numbers from Ireland. There they were below the Dutch figures, at about 200 per 100,000 a week. In the meantime, the figures in some regions have risen to around 2,000 per 100,000 per week and on average for the country well above 1,000. Those aren't hockey sticks anymore, they're flagpoles. That's really horrible. With too high a number of infections and infectious diseases in the Netherlands, too high a percentage of infectious diseases in the Netherlands, this is also evident from the test street and it is the figures that we all know of, and still the great pressure on hospitals, even today still 2,500 patients in hospital beds and in intensive care, we must ensure that those numbers go down. With this you achieve that also the source and contact research can take place completely again, because for that you have to return to less than 4,000 infections a day. We've got plenty of people at the G.D.D.'s for that now. With the current numbers, you cannot perform the full source and contact research. I get it. I also understand Mr Jetten, who says 'it will be a difficult job to convince me, but perhaps it is necessary'. I'm actually just asking everyone not to throw shoes away right now. That's all I can do, by the way. We have to do this together. This is a shoe we have to put on together, if we put it on. There aren't many alternatives, I'm afraid. They're there, but those are calls like "stay home" and the like. Anyway, we'll get that from the OMT. I'm afraid there are no happy alternatives. They may also be even more intense for lonely people and single people than if people were told: you can still visit someone, but you have to be home in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u54	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Through you, Madam President, I say to the Prime Minister that there is, of course, a Chamber speech. We have seen before, when it comes to renting or raising salaries for care, that statements of Chamberities are not being carried out, but I would not want to make too much of a habit of it. In this case, I admit immediately that before the outbreak of the British variant it is necessary not to do so, because this is too far-reaching a restriction on freedom. I ask the Prime Minister to take that majority into account, and yes, that is sometimes annoying when you rule. The cabinet says it has a sense of urgency when it comes to the possibility of curfew, but if you really want to achieve something to ensure that the Netherlands gets its freedom back, entrepreneurs can get back to business, hospitals and ICIs are less burdened and we don't get a code black in case the British variant gets dominant here, then you need to proceed more quickly and more effectively with the voluntary vaccination of people. I mentioned some figures in my first term. The Netherlands has 7,000 vaccinations per week. All other countries have 40,000, 60,000, 70,000 or 80,000 per week. Again, they vaccinate voluntarily. That is the solution for fighting the virus and opening the Netherlands, not curfew. You have to make sure people are vaccinated against the virus if they want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u56	The virus doesn't have the habit of sticking to Chamberroom statements. I am very sorry for Mr Wilders and for anyone who finds it horrible that the curfew is being considered at all, including myself. I'm just as sorry about that. The alternative to now accelerated vaccination is not an alternative. Yeah, we need to vaccinate as soon as possible. I totally agree with Mr Wilders. We'll do everything we can to do that as soon as possible, and to prick away what we get inside and put it in the shoulders. But that is not an alternative to this problem. You can't vaccinate so quickly that you build immunity with each other against this horrible English variant. At the moment, even without the English variant, the number of infections is too high. We have to face reality; we have to look reality in the eye. I really appeal to Mr Wilders of the largest opposition party. This is about our national public health. I get it. I even agree with him. I hate that we have to think about curfew at all. I totally agree with him. But we can't afford the luxury of doing this right now. In the press conference last night, I mentioned the image that I mentioned yesterday in the Council of Ministers and that I was the last to fall in, namely: at the beginning of March, we thought that we might just shave past the Bergamo statues. Well, no, we've been in the biggest post-war crisis since mid-March. I was wrong about that. Some people have seen that before and others haven't. It doesn't matter. Eventually, we were all in that situation from mid-March. That English virus, a few members of the cabinet said yesterday, is actually another virus. It's a corona variant, but because of its effects and infectiousness, there might be a new situation. So please, Mr. Wilders, Mr. Jetten and others, don't throw away any instruments. Let's take this one step at a time. I am so afraid that further motions will be adopted in the near future which call for this to be blocked again. There's no luxury right now. There are currently insufficient alternatives. If they are, that's what we're gonna do. I'm not waiting for that curfew either, but we're not seeing any alternatives right now. And as far as they're concerned, they have a huge impact on people's personal lives, much more than curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u57	I can't imagine measures that have more impact than telling someone that he can't leave the house between 6:00 and 6:00, or between 8:00 and 5:00, or how long at night or at night. That has nothing to do with fighting the virus. Everyone here wants to fight the virus. If you had started fighting the virus before, and inoculating it, and if you'd been in order, we wouldn't be in this situation right now. So you're not gonna blame me for saying we shouldn't have this horse medicine. I insist that it is only about voluntary vaccination, with a line of voluntary vaccination. We can see that 0.22 doses have been given in the Netherlands per 100 inhabitants. In the United Kingdom there are 4.26 per 100 and in Israel there are 21 per 100. That's 100 times more than ours. Of course, at the moment that is not the solution for group immunity as you see it, but with it you do something that can help. In addition, you can bring older people and people under 60 who are vulnerable, for example because they are chronically ill, more forward. By which I don't mean you don't inoculate them until weeks 7 or 8, but you start with that right away. Then you immediately reduce the pressure on the ic's. If the pressure on the ic's is reduced, you've achieved a lot more than entering the curfew. You always say it's about the pressure on the ic's. Well, then make sure that you vaccinate the people who are now on the ic's on average 60- to 70-year-olds as a priority if they want to. Then you have a much more effective instrument than curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u58	I agree with Geert Wilders on the vaccination approach. You have to see which vaccines you get, in what quantities, and how you can drive them out, thaw them and not let them spoil. You need to focus as much as possible on the groups that are most vulnerable. We do, but we are limited in numbers and also in the logistics of the vaccine itself. If that is delivered frozen and you can only thaw it once, you have to pack it every 1,000, or I don't know, then we all do. We're pulling all the tricks to handle the vaccine as smartly as possible with as little waste as possible. But that's not gonna help us in the race against the English virus. England is already vaccinating on a larger scale than the Netherlands. That's right. But look at the footage from London right now. That's not what we want here, is it? Those images from London are similar to the images from Bergamo from late February, early March. There are people who have to wait hours for an ambulance. Ambulances are lining up in front of the hospital. Ambulances are gradually becoming alternative ic-spots, because people can't get to the hospital, while England could start earlier with other authorisation procedures for vaccination. I don't doubt for a second that Geert Wilders, Rob Jetten, everyone here, has public health at number one. Now let's not put a taboo on something. That's the only plea I make and the only request I make. There is also a case here for schools and other things. That's what we need to look at. I know. That's what we're trying to do. There are so many interests that we have to weigh. I'll be at those schools in a minute. The first important thing is that we are as prepared as possible for a further introduction of the English virus. It's gonna come. In the next few weeks, we must try to print as many numbers as possible. Nor can we, as Mr Jetten said, wait until the English virus arrives. No, we need to try to get those numbers down right now, so we're ready for the virus. That is what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u59	Finally. No one wants that footage from Ireland or the United Kingdom, where ambulances are stuck in traffic with all those with breathing problems that don't get a spot. That's getting way out of hand. We don't want that. I say to the Prime Minister that in November it was Mr Van Dissel himself who said: well, a curfew might increase the sense of urgency a little bit more. I'm almost quoting him literally. There's no medical effect. It would only increase the sense of urgency. That's what my motion said. That is why the motion was adopted. I think you really want to do something, Mr. Prime Minister. We do not disagree on this. If you really want to do something, then the non-medical curfew, which, according to Mr Van Dissel himself, mainly leads to a feeling of extra urgency at most, is not more effective, but then it is to vaccinate people who want to vaccinate faster and to vaccinate the vulnerable, those 3 million people whose health council says they are vulnerable people who are at higher risk in corona, even sooner. The British just do that with the Pfizer vaccine. They've vaccinated all 80-year-olds with the Pfizer vaccine. You do not have to wait for other vaccines. You can just do that. Instead of restricting the freedoms of people, you are helping to return the freedoms to the people sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u60	Again, I agree that we need to speed up what we can. We are calling for priority groups. Once, you have to. But that's not gonna win this race. That's my point. That's not realistic. You won't win the race against the English virus. Now even more than 95% have the known virus, which is bad enough. Of these, the reproduction factor is currently just below 1. Of these, the number of infected is 140,000. Of these, the average number of infections per day is well above 6,000. In addition, the number of intensivecare recordings is not 10, where you can think again if something can happen again. The number of intensivecare recordings is still between 25 and 40, with also outliers upwards. Those values should go down in the direction you want. So we have to try to really push down on those numbers, so they're lower. If that English virus gets in here while we're at high numbers like this, it's a celebration for the virus and it can lead to a huge rise in numbers. It's my plea to prevent that. That is why there should be no taboos now. Just give us a chance to weigh up the OMT advice we get. Then we'll come back to you with what we do. Please don't make statements today to shut doors again. That is my only question to the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u62	I thought in the first term: I will give a short and concise answer once. As a result, I seemed to suggest that we should not take action again until these British situations are already here. Of course not. You must now take the measures that prevent us from getting those London images in the Netherlands as well. The question is: what is effective and what is proportional? I also pointed out in my first term that the current measures we have agreed with each other are simply not being properly respected in many areas. Mrs Marijnissen and I both referred to employers who simply forced their employees to come to the office despite the urgent homework advice of the cabinet. Then I hear mayors, boas and the police say: if the cabinet goes to curfew and wants us to maintain it, then it will be at the expense of day-time enforcement, because we do not have the capacity to do our work as security services during the day and to maintain such a curfew in the evening. How does the Prime Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u63	They're real points. They're just real points. The latest research by RIVM, from December, shows that 71% of the people who can work at home do the same. That is, in itself, encouraging. That is, of course, a poll, or an inquiry. Signals that people are forced to work in the office when they do not have to, we immediately pass on to social partners. It is good that such intensive consultations are currently taking place, with VNO, other employers, the FNV, the CNV and other trade unions and workers' organisations. At present 50% of the infections are at home, 35% by visit and 10% at work. England and the number of planes. Hugo de Jonge will come back to that shortly. That bothers me, too. There are a lot of hooks and eyes on it and we are trying to do something. It's not like the incoming flights are the big infection harbor right now. However, I fully agree that of course you should also try to control that medically. So you have to work on all these points. As far as enforcement is concerned, I also agree. Of course, there is no unlimited enforcement. We have 50,000 policemen in the Netherlands, with vacancies as well. In addition, we have boas and other enforcers. We're having that conversation, too. If we were to come forward with further proposals next week on the basis of the OMT opinion, I hope not, but as things stand, I cannot rule out curfews, so we must of course also explain how these elements are involved. That's what we have to try. I'm just saying it won't be a closing system. We will not be able to develop a perfect closing model in 96 hours. There's gonna be holes in that, but you need to close it as much as you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u64	It is good to hear that the cabinet will also consider this if there is a new OMT opinion next week. Maintaining the current measures, ensuring sufficient test readiness and indeed accelerating vaccination, do a lot. Perhaps by doing so we can prevent the lockdown from being further weighted. I would also ask the Cabinet to consider the following. Many Dutch adhere to the measures and are having a very hard time during this lockdown. They're lonely. They don't care about homework and homeschooling anymore. You name it all. Taking away that last piece of free movement space, from 8 p.m. in the evening, can also give that fragile support for the situation in which we are now sitting a crack. This can also lead to more people in the Netherlands thinking: figure it out, I can't do it anymore and I can't stick to those measures anymore. With this we would get further away from the goal, namely to fight the virus and prevent the British variant from flourishing in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u65	Yeah, that's a risk. That is why it is good that the Netherlands is following these debates alongside the press conferences, so that they are told that these are the considerations. I cannot give a conclusive answer to that either. Because there isn't. That risk is always there to some extent. If such a measure is to be taken, it is our expensive duty to highlight it as well as possible. Again, the only alternative I can imagine now is to say: don't visit anyone again. But what does that do with loneliness? Then you're going to set off one terrible measure against the other terrible one. I'm not sure that's wise either. So we will have to think about how to convey it as wisely as possible when it has to come to this. I must say to Mr Jetten that I do not think that the better enforcement of the existing rules is going to help us here enough. Right now, we're just seeing that the reproductive factor is still too high. I'm not going to repeat all these figures, but all those figures are still too high.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u66	Good. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u67	I noticed that the point of the possible curfew came from an OMT opinion, which called for 'targeted additional measures to counter meetings of too large groups of young people'. Now I hear the Prime Minister outline a broader perspective of: it can also help to get some general... But that is actually a much broader approach than I read in the OMT opinion. How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u68	Indeed, the OMT shows that it is increasingly really young people who are spreading the virus. With all due respect to young people, we should also ask them to comply with the rules, please. In general, you have to find that there are too many places or moments in that group where people in too large groups come together. Then we always bless: if they infect each other, it's serious. It can also be very deadly or intensive care. But that chance is much smaller than when they're older. But they pass it on to the parents and through the parents or directly to the grandparents. As a result, you saw the virus spread again in the Netherlands. So, yeah, that's the first thing. But it has also really to do with the fact that the existing lockdown in all its intensity has only brought us just below 1. You don't only see that in the Netherlands. I was in touch with the Germans and the Austrians this week and you see the same thing there. Those numbers are still far too high there, and of course you should see that in combination with the concern about the arrival of that new virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u69	The point remains that a curfew is a very blunt measure. That is why we have declared ourselves against this. A curfew would affect a lot of people, for example single people who after a very busy working day still have that one contact, but otherwise no major social contacts at all. That's what you cut off in that way and this is also a lot of collateral damage. Are things from that broader pallet, for example limiting travel movements from England, not much more logical and targeted, precisely when it comes to preventing the English variant?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u70	I understand all the irritation about all those flights at Schiphol Airport from England. We're doing more than that, but... Well, Hugo de Jonge's gonna say something about it, but that never really closes it. It's not like that's the big leak, by the way. The infections in the Netherlands are real: 50% at home, 35% at home and 10% at work. Well, that makes sense, because you can't do so much more than being home. You can only visit someone at home or, if there is no other way, go to the office. And again, according to these studies, 71% seem to work at home if they can work at home. Actually, that's it. We just need to push those numbers down further, and I don't think you're gonna get there with the existing lockdown. That's just not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u71	I suggest you move on. Oh, Mr. Clover, don't you have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u72	I actually thought we were over, but not quite. The Prime Minister is asking the Chamber not to rule anything out. We have also said on many occasions: there is nothing to rule out. But every time that curfew comes back, when it has been widely said in the Chamber: what are the other options? We see that the numbers of people willing to go into quarantine are incredibly low. We had a strong debate on this this spring, but we did not really come back to that after that. What steps can be taken there? Can the Minister tell us about these flights what we can do there? That's not blissful, but it's important for the support that you're also working on it. In other words, what other steps can we make maximum use of?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u73	At least I think we should show that. It takes some work, but I don't mind at all. In fact, it makes sense and let's agree that we are showing that. So we will come back to it even more comprehensively, but very briefly now. We checked those flights to see if you could have some kind of essential travel statement drawn up. This proves to be extremely difficult, not so much legal but simply practical, because who decides whether or not a journey is essential? When I heard it, I thought, "Brilliant, we're gonna do it. Then we are out, because everyone knows: only essential and you have to be able to prove that for a while." In practice, it appears to be extremely complex. We are now looking at that extra test when you come from England or South Africa, but Hugo de Jonge is about to go into that. We're also looking at the quarantine and whether the period is too short. We also have a whole package of measures to ensure that people are supported. In his term Hugo de Jonge will also elaborate on this. But I promise: should we come to this sort of thing, we will outline it in the letter. We have asked OMT to advise on this and in that letter we will also indicate whether there are any alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u74	I appreciate that. That's nice. But there are a lot of implementation problems when it comes to curfew. The Prime Minister goes on to say, "If necessary, we have to do it. But I believe it is difficult to make only necessary journeys possible, because there are also implementation problems." But it seems that in aviation the implementation problems are always greater and that there can be much less there than in the rest of society. I think that if we move on to even more draconian measures, let us not pretend that the measures are not draconian at the moment, then they should also apply, and above all, to aviation. Yesterday, I believe, there were still almost twenty flights from the United Kingdom to the Netherlands and that is simply not possible! If that means that there must be a flight ban because it is very complicated to see who is or is not allowed to fly anymore, then you have to do so, no matter how difficult it is. And that really shouldn't be today, because that should have happened yesterday. So I really call on the cabinet to take further steps there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u75	I get it. I refer to the previous answer. We must also be able to demonstrate this and look at what can and cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u76	Good. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u77	I think the Prime Minister is right to tell the Chamber around curfew that you cannot reason that we are not going to consider this until the hospitals are as full as in London. That's a weird reasoning, because you want to avoid it. I hear the Prime Minister say that the possibilities of further travel restrictions are being addressed so directly. However, I would also like to point out to the Prime Minister a similar error of reasoning which I believe he just made and which we should not let go. You cannot say that travelling from London is not a problem because there are more infections at home, because they are unequal numbers. Because you don't want these treacherous infections from England because it's a virus variant that's trying to become dominant here. So saying that there are more home infections in the numbers is comparing apples with pears. You want travel restrictions because you want to prevent that dominant virus from getting there, because we want to vaccinate before it does. So I would like the Prime Minister to keep that reasoning differently, or to take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u78	Agreed. I have to make them side-by-side. If you look at the numbers of where the infections are, it's true. But it's true, so you can't compare those figures relative to what the effects of the trips from England are. I agree with Mr Heerma. That is a special problem, because that of course puts you at risk, and he is absolutely right in saying that that virus is being introduced here. That is why we have again today announced additional measures to impose restrictions. He's right. A few more questions at this point. The list of essential shops: can buying by appointment become possible? I don't think we should. Yeah, you can buy by appointment to have it delivered at home. When I try to find a place with old Saab of mine in my narrow street, it is no longer possible, because there are permanently delivery cars in the street. But click-and-collect, where people pick it up themselves, we shouldn't do it now. I'd love to do it again. But you can also see in England that some of those click-and-collect shops are closing, because it just leads to too many movements around those stores, with all the risks. Then there were questions about communication and the fact that people are being discouraged and frustrated. I couldn't agree more. I think we have also talked about this in the discussion. I would therefore like to move on to the second subject, namely education. First, I'm going to the OMT recommendation. In the opinion of 23 June, in reply to Mrs Marijnissen, who asked that question, I believe that the OMT says about the risk of transmission of the virus... what exactly is the situation? "Is of the opinion that if students in secondary education no longer have to keep 1.5 metres apart, this increases the risk of transmission of the virus." That was June 23rd last year. "This can lead to spreading. However, the OMT considers that this is an acceptable risk when it is weighed against the obvious negative effects of school closure or limited opening." On 17 August, there was also an additional opinion on this point, which said: if necessary, additional measures must be taken. One of the things we did later is try to make sure that it is quieter around the schools, and that it is not an endless walking back and forth to the snack bar. That's not smart anyway. Now there is a situation in which the OMT says: it is wise not to do so and to observe that 1.5 meters. That there are individual OMT members who find something about it on TV or somewhere else, is of course the case. I can't follow all that, I say very rudely. It's true. Sometimes I see it and sometimes I don't see it. Arie Slob also said something about it this morning in another debate, I understand. We must, of course, base ourselves on the advice we receive. Of course, we all wanted to get education back to normal as soon as possible. Now the final insight, including the very last figures, is: make sure that you maintain that 1.5 meters until there are alternatives. So that's why we're doing that. We also do this because of the high absolute number of infections and the number of infections between 13 and 18 that increased. So this is in answer to that question. So it's not like we made that up at the time. There were real advices underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u79	With this, you've answered all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u80	No. Shall I do the other education questions first?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u81	I'd wrap it up first. Then you will have the opportunity, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u82	Well, good. Various questions have been asked about primary schools or primary schools, whatever it is called: primary education, primary education. You know that we would also like to see whether this could be done responsibly a little earlier. But that must of course be seen against the background of, one, what does the English virus do in that age group? The second is: how does this relate to the overall situation in the Netherlands now with the lockdown? We can't say... It is a side effect that parents do not take the children to schools, but of course that side effect is lost when children go back to school. It involves 1.5 million travel movements a day. So we all have to weigh that. We will come back to you and hope that at the beginning of next week we will be able to inform you of the latest planning, whether or not primary education can be opened. At this point, it's really not certain yet. It is therefore a question of childcare. Also there it will be based on the latest insights we hope to get from the Outbreak Management Team. Questions have also been asked about the delays that have arisen. That is clearly the case. I could list all the amounts here again, 280 million, but I'm not going to do that. I can say that we are working with all the parties involved to look at schools in all sectors to see what is additional. Honestly, I don't do that all day, but Arie Slob and Ingrid of Engelshoven do that, and if necessary, of course I'm available. I also agree with Van der Staaij, who says that this should be a priority. Yes, absolutely, and we believe that primary schools should be a priority within education. Is distance learning still sound and proportionate? Well, no, actually, but there's no alternative at the moment, because of the high contagion rates. As a result, it is now too high a risk to open up education. But of course it's far... No, not "far from ideal," it's even different. Yeah, that leads to delays. Mr Klaver and others pointed this out. This year, therefore, school advice also requires a great deal of attention. For this reason, the PO-Council, together with the General Association of School Leaders, the Teachers' Collective and other partners in primary education, and also the VO-Council, has placed the call to highly recommend students in group 8 this school year. We support that call. Second, the final tests since 2019 mainly contain double opinions. This stimulates schools to do so and thus to offer more opportunities. On 17 April, i.e. a month in the previous lockdown, Arie Slob, the Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, called on schools to set up extra wide bridge classes, so that students have a little longer time to reach a level that suits their abilities and capabilities. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Lillian Ploumen asked another question about investing in corona jobs, also for education. You know we spend money on corona courts, which was reported to the Chamber in mid-December. These include temporary corona jobs in care, supervision and enforcement, and higher education. In addition, for p.o. and for viewers at home: primary and secondary education and secondary vocational training already made 210 million available through the Extra Aid for Class initiative. Well, well, of course, it's all attempts to limit the damage in all misery as much as possible. So much for the education questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mrs. Marijnissen and then Mrs. Ploumen. And Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wonder what the Prime Minister thinks of the way in which schools have dealt with this crisis. Just now it was about maintaining or not maintaining the 1.5 meters. At least it seems that it is very much a question of whether it is open, as it turns out now in an unsafe way, because you have come back to it, or completely close, with all the far-reaching consequences it has for children and parents. My question is why a plan has not been drawn up before, along with the schools and not over the heads of schools, as we can see on TV in countries around us. That is where they try to keep education as safe as possible, in consultation with the teachers, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u85	Schools are closed in many countries at the moment. Unfortunately. Really in a lot of countries. It is not just the case in the Netherlands. I hate it, too. By the way, I will ask Arie Slob to say a little more about that BBC plan in another letter to the Chamber. I can't see that now. I also saw reports about it in the media, about public service broadcasting in England. Maybe the NIS is already doing it, I really don't know. So we're gonna ask him to update you and with that also myself. But wider: education is closed in many countries. You'll see under what conditions it can open. That was initially on the condition of that 1.5 meter. On the basis of the OMT advice, that was not necessary at the time. Those opinions can also change over time; yesterday I received a question about this in the press conference: first it was allowed and then it was not. Well, those advanced insights are there, of course. At the moment you are dealing with a number of infections that are high anyway and with the fact that the number of infections in the age group between 13 and 18 years has increased until Christmas. This created additional uncertainty, also in relation to the new virus. That is also why the OMT is now saying: we are taking the safe side, so we withdraw our view that we can do without that 1.5 meter. But it will happen more often that these views shift over time either on the basis of new insights or on the basis of new facts, as they now occur around the schools with the number of infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u86	I find moving insight really something other than mopping. Here you see that it is at first about 1,5 meters, then not 1,5 meters and now it is 1,5 meters. Those schools get mugged with that every time. What is going on here is that OMT members are indeed... I understand that the Prime Minister says that they are individual OMT members who are shouting in a talk show and that he cannot do much with that either, but they say: we actually knew at the end of the summer that maintaining that 1.5 meters is very important. We have also seen an enormous increase in the number of infections in schools. I can just imagine that that is one of the main reasons why we are now where we stand: in a very solid lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u87	I think that's a bold conclusion. I don't know. If you look at the figures, it is true that the number of infections among young people, in the group under 18, has risen and is now relatively decreasing again. But no, yes, how's that going? The Outbreak Management Team naturally relies on all the insights they have. Then they come up with weighted opinions. But of course it's not black and white. They also literally said to us in June, and that is fine with me as well, that there are risks to it. I just read that. But considering everything, they say, we find it acceptable because of the enormous negative effects of school closure. And they are now saying in January, based on how the figures developed in December: no, we are now withdrawing that, given the latest figures. It is really part of the fight against the pandemic that you keep looking at the facts: what are the substantive insights in the spread of the virus and how does it develop in the Netherlands? I can't blame anyone for that. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u88	When we see the impact for all those children who are now at home, including their parents, I find this to blame. That there are new insights, that's possible. That there's moving insight, that's possible. But first of all, I do not think there is any mention of this because the 1.5 was initially put forward, and secondly, I do not understand that there will be no forward thinking. Why aren't these schools being asked to come up with a plan to do this in a safe way? Now the schools are being robbed again. That is the feeling that many teachers have: we are being robbed over and over again, while we can also think ahead. That also applies now; that is the question I asked. We hope, I understand, that the schools will be able to open again...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u89	Primary schools, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u90	Yeah, elementary schools. But what if that's not the case right now? Are we going to be back here next week or in two weeks to say: annoying, but the contagion rates... then we should think about that already? My question is: what is the plan that the cabinet and these schools are planning to do in a good way? Or is the prospect that we will only be able to relax at the beginning of March and that these schools will remain closed all this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u91	Look at today's figures, Mrs. Marijnissen. You can see there were 6,000 more infections today, can't you? We don't have... I'd love to! I hate that these schools are closed. We all do. Your heart breaks, for the children themselves and for the parents and for the development of the children... Yes, Mr. Klaver also has a personal interest! No, but this applies to everyone, regardless of whether you have children of your own or not. It's horrible. But isn't it a fact that we're back in a serious phase of the pandemic? At the moment it is simply not possible to open the schools. You don't solve that either by doing it smartly or conveniently. Those schools are smart enough. When the vo-schools had to work at 1.5 meters in the beginning, of course they had a limited number of children at school, but when the weather could be a bit wider... I saw that myself in the classes where I teach. You stay in your pocket and you have to keep a distance of 1.5 meters from the children and from each other. At that time, on the basis of all the facts we have, that seemed to be a sensible line, knowing that it was a trade-off. That's what the OMT advice said. We've made that our verdict, too. But you see now, in December, that increase in the group from 13 to 18. That's what you see in a lot of places in the world. On that basis, I understand very well that the OMT says you shouldn't do it now. That's inevitable. For example, there will be more times when you say that you need additional advice, either on the basis of new scientific insights, or on the basis of the development of the figures. There's no way to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his answers on what is being done to prevent a corona generation of children from catching up all their lives. But his answer is a little noncommittal. He says we're gonna sit down with the schools, or with all those administrative bodies, to see what's needed. But it's clear what it takes. The aldermen of the big cities have sounded the alarm clock. I have made a number of proposals myself. Colleagues, also from the coalition, have made a number of concrete proposals. So my question to the Prime Minister is: we can no longer wait; stop talking and talk and act for those children. It's clear what needs to be done. The call is for example: make sure that there are weekend schools. Make sure that all children are provided with a tablet or laptop. Make sure that all children can create longer learning lines. It's all not that complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u93	Yeah, but all these things aren't just being discussed. There's a lot going on, too. Last summer there were the weekend schools to give children extra support in the summer on the way to the new school year. It is obvious, of course, as the situation is now, that you will see it again this summer, to get rid of delays again. At least it was a quick win, in all that misery, to use that holiday period for that. So all these suggestions are discussed. There is also money for it: a quarter billion has been released. If we have to, we'll clear more. Of course, money doesn't play here. It's not an obstructive factor; it can't be true. Anyway, we also need to be careful that the money is looking for a project, so you need to make sure there are good ideas. These are all things that are naturally on the table and are partly affected, like those summer schools. Of course, we've done that before. I cannot go into every single idea, because I am not exactly aware of the latest developments there. Then I should ask Mr Slob to send you a final update, which I think he does regularly. But at least I know from those summer schools that they have taken place and are likely to take place again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u94	"Money doesn't matter" and "we make sure that all the money that is needed is available" already sounds much better than "we discuss it and see what is needed," so...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u95	Agreed. Sorry, then that sentence of mine was very official, or well, not official, but bureaucratic. I just wanted to say that this intensive consultation is going on. But that doesn't happen in anticipation, in the sense of "we're going to make some sort of overall plan that we're going to implement sometime in 2022." No, this is to accompany what's already going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u96	Finally. As I said, the aldermen from the big cities have sounded the alarm bell. The kids are having a hard time right now, but of course they're still talking about one, two, three or four years. If you are sitting around that table, invite those aldermen to go through concrete proposals with them in order to avoid further delays in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u97	Yeah, I'll do that check, too. I'll just ask my officials who are listening. I think that this consultation with the cities is intense anyway. In any case, I regularly talk to the big cities about all kinds of issues, not so much with the aldermen of education, but with the big cities. But we'll check specifically if this happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u98	The tricky thing is that we read it back in the Catshuis pieces, for which we thank you that the long-term sustainability of many measures decreases precisely because the damage will increase. This, of course, puts pressure on the measures for schools. The question is therefore, and it is now taking longer to decide to what extent those other partial opening or opening scenarios are seriously considered and prepared with additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u99	Yes. In fact, for primary education, of course, we would like you to be able to take a big step in that week of 25 January. That is what we have to decide on Sunday, Monday, on the basis of the opinion. But only if you can. I really want to add that. Otherwise the picture is: oh, those primary schools are opening. You're dying to do it. But only if we can, so we've really asked for that advice now. So we're looking at that this weekend and Monday. On Sunday, I think we should send something to the Chamber, if the primary schools can open on Monday 25 January, because of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. But only if you can. So that's the group. There are also high schools. We are all in the other film now in the sense of 'there is no room at all', but if there is ever room again, then, of course, after primary education, secondary education is a priority. And then you, even if you can't quite do it, of course see if you can do pieces. I couldn't agree more, but I can't at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u100	It is good to hear the Prime Minister say that these scenarios are also being considered. He says "if possible." Of course. Who would be against that? But at the same time, of course, the point remains that I also see in all the analyses we have been sent and which we hear around us, namely that it must also be possible to keep it endlessly closed, given the damage that is caused in other ways than health. So the point is that it is not the idea that measures should continue to be taken at all costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u101	No, no, as soon as you can. But for a moment, what's the big deal? We have a situation where we went to 3,000 patients in the hospital. Luckily, it's bent a little bit now, but it's going very slowly. At some point we were over 2,800 and we had more than 700 people structurally in intensive care. Of course, there was the whole problem, apart from the fact that it does not achieve your other objective, namely to protect the elderly and people with vulnerable health. That was of course the reason why the lockdown for Christmas was extended, with all these terrible effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u102	Recent studies from the UK show that children are not more comprehensible for this variant than for the previous mutations. This variant is more contagious, but not more virulent, so I don't quite understand the fear. Why is the lack of scale in care now passed on to children in schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u103	Well, that's a complicated combination. We have asked the Outbreak Management Team, based on these kinds of insights and their own research, to find out what the infection of the virus is for all kinds of age groups and especially for small children, when it comes to primary education. The second is that, when it opens, primary education itself is another cause of a lot of travel movements. A lot of people then travel and parents may then talk to each other again in the school square or whatever. That must also be taken into account when there is still a fairly large spread of the virus, compared to the enormous importance of being open to schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u104	Of course, I understand all that, but it's not a new virus, like you just said. It's a mutation and there's already thousands of mutations. There is also a South African variant. There are now several strains and it is even uncertain whether all these vaccines work for those different strains. But it's already here. The problem is already there. We've seen that we haven't scaled up the ic capacity in the last ten months. I do get the feeling that the children in the schools, who are not actually sick themselves and who are not at risk, are going to suffer and are going to lag behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u105	You can't scale up the ic capacity dramatically in six months. You need years of training for those places. In the Netherlands, we have an ic-capacity that is several hundred places above what we normally need. No one would accept it if we said: on top of that we have another 500 or 600 beds that are never used. What you need to do is to look at how, under normal circumstances, you can quickly scale up to a higher scale with reserves, people who can be invoked very quickly. There's a lot of hard work on that, but you can't solve that in six months, Mr. Van Haga. That's just not an option. It's highly specialised work. You can't just pull people away from something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u106	No, I understand. You can't train people from zero to ICU in ten months. But there are countless solutions. I'm a little surprised that those solutions aren't really sought. I imagine you can train HBO nurses and that's a faster route. All that stuff I miss. I still see that we are at 1,100, 1,350 and later perhaps 1,700 ic-beds and that that is the limiting factor that we now have to take all kinds of draconian measures for, such as curfews or the duping of children who actually do not suffer from them at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u107	Still, let's talk about the ic capacity. Again, you normally need about 900 beds in the Netherlands. We've got 1,100. I'm just gonna say it out of my head, so I might as well be wrong. But there's a margin in it, let's put it this way. What have the capacity further increased. But at some point we had 1,250 people with corona lying in intensive care, apart from the German beds. It's incredibly sweet that the Germans helped us in the spring. They're doing that again, by the way. They're doing it in smaller numbers now, but not because they don't want to do it anymore. There are also people in Germany at the moment, which we appreciate incredibly. Then it was about 1,250 people on Dutch ic-beds and we had a scale that was a bit higher. That led to a lot of people at home worrying that they might have to go there sometime. Then I'm not talking about acute cases, for example a heart attack or a car accident because you always have to keep beds free for that, but about planned operations. We saw that they were scaled down in the spring and that, of course, also causes enormous health damage. But you can't just raise that number of beds. The lesson to be learned is that we have a health care system that can handle a short peak, but a long peak is not. You only solve that by building backup capacity that you can call in when needed. That's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u108	That is quite clear, of course. The old situation is over. So we can't count on those 900 or 1,100 beds anymore. That's just in the past. So the question is: are we now considering a huge number of ic-beds to which we are going to scale up as quickly as possible, in all reasonableness, so that we do not have to take this kind of draconian measures anymore? Is that what you're doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u109	Yeah, for the future. That is what Van Ark talks about every debate in the dialogue with Mr Wilders. He's made proposals for that. Others have done the same, and so have they.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u110	Then I will go to Mr Segers, and then to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u111	Several questions have been asked about educational disadvantages and what can now be done in the short term, but there are also educational disadvantages that will continue to work longer. Think of deferred internships and what that means for subsequent school years and perhaps academic years. Could the cabinet see what that means for the longer term, for the pressure on educational institutions, schools and teachers? Can we now identify the challenges for schools, so that we also know what is needed for next year and perhaps also for next year's budget? I therefore ask that we not only look at the short-term, what needs to be done now, and what assistance is needed now, even though I am underlining that demand, but also the longer-term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u112	Yes. I think that's wise. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u113	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u114	You promised Mr Klaver the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u115	Oh, yeah. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u116	Thank you. I would really ask the Prime Minister not to use our children to make sure we don't go to work. That argument was used again: if the schools are going to open, then the parents can all travel. Don't use that argument. Do everything you can to keep parents home, make sure they don't go to work and work at home. But using the schools and the kids as a way to keep parents at home is really unacceptable. I hear the minister just said again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u117	Agreed. I just want to say two things... Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u118	We are very limited in the number of interruptions, so I'll add a question right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u119	I know Mr Klaver so well that I already know where he's going.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u120	That's the first thing. Secondly, all those parents who are now trying to combine homework with teaching often get caught up with their employer. It would be very helpful if they were given the right to take leave. We have also proposed this today: Corona leave. Then they're a little stronger towards their employer when they say, "I'm sorry; I really want to keep doing my job, but I can't do everything. I cannot continue to perform 100% in all these areas." My question to the Prime Minister is: how does the cabinet view that? Are they prepared to take steps in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u121	First of all, I agree with that in itself. It is inevitable to establish that this side effect is there. It just doesn't have to be the purpose of the policy. It is true that when the schools open, parents often take their children to school. These transport movements are, of course, immediate, as the schools open. Van Ark then always mentions the number of 1.5 million movements per day. I think that's very high, but it's probably close. I don't know if that's just going to be back and forth, but it's going to be very large numbers of movements. It's also about people at the schoolyard and you name it. I therefore agree with the first point. It is an effect that exists, but that you cannot have as a goal of the policy. But there is also the other thing: the movements from parents to school. Then the corona leave. In my opinion, Mr Segers referred to this in his speech. So straight forward: you do see that a lot of people try to work both at home and keep an eye on the children. I was talking yesterday about helping the kids at the kitchen table and then trying to do your own work somewhere between the sliding doors. Companies are really trying to help. I believe that we must take account of each other's legitimate interests, and this also applies to employers towards workers. It gets harder if the lockdown lasts longer. We are also constantly discussing this issue with social partners. It's also about possibilities for corona leave. The design of a new regime in this area is very complex, and implementation is an important point of attention. I want to promise that we will continue to discuss this with the social partners. I also say to you that if we come up with a letter on extra support for the economy, we will update those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u122	That's great, because I wanted to say this shouldn't take too long, but this means it's here next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u123	An update, huh? I'm not saying there's corona leave, but then there's an update on the calls.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u124	It is important that it is done quickly, because the water is on the lips of a lot of people, including parents, to be able to do this right. It causes enormous stress in households, and that is why I would really like to ask you to make sure that as many steps as possible are taken next week and that we are actually going to land there. Finally. As for the travel movements that are made to bring children to school: organize it as you have to organize it. They're all relatively small pieces. I know how hard it is, but make sure parents don't get close when they have to drop off a kid at school. These are practical matters that we need to solve practically. Kids need to go to school as soon as possible. We can't take care of the backlogs that go on for generations. If we are going to look back at the price we paid for this crisis, that will be one: the care we have not been able to deliver. But also what we did to our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u125	Quite once, but may I add the following, also because of the high level of contamination? If you opened the primary schools, we'd take money off the bank account. My plea at the beginning of the debate was about measures to replenish the bank account in the event of fewer infections. There are no taboos there, perhaps because these kinds of discussions are also important. We can't just take money from the bank account. We also need to collapse and collapse by weighing up the lockdown, where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u126	When it comes to those educational disadvantages, Mr Segers' question just now, you want to catch up as quickly as possible, so that in the long term there will be no damage both for children and for our economy. But I have two very specific questions. The first question concerns the money that has already been made available. I referred to that in my first term. I am getting signals from, among other things, the Foundation for Working Parents, that for the extra money allocated to extra aid in the classroom, which is 210 million, hardly any grant applications are made. This is partly due to unknownness and partly because it is very complicated. And then you get money made available to prevent delays, but not to make use of them. So my request is to make sure that this is looked at specifically. I understand that the Minister is not answering that now, but it prevents us from getting a letter that does not answer these kinds of questions yet. The second question concerns the use of public service broadcasting, as happens in England with the BBC. I am happy that Mr Slob is watching this, but we already know quite a lot. The NPO does a number of things online, but it's the weak kids who sometimes don't have access to them and it's tucked away from a theme channel, while the BBC is going to do it on a main channel. My question is therefore whether, if Mr Slob is going to look at this, it will also be examined whether the familiarity with the material used by the NPO is sufficiently present, especially with the group that needs it most, and whether this should not be done on main channels following the BBC's example, so that the weakest children, who are most at risk of retardation, have access to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u127	Can Mr Heerma live with it if I add to my commitment to Mr Segers, first of all, the point of this 210 million regulation and what is the state of it, and secondly, what are the views on education on TV, on thematic channels or directly? I never know exactly the distinction between NPO, NTR and NOS, but these seem to be very different organisations. I assume this is the NPO, which Mr Heerma mentioned. Then I admit that the update on those two points will also be included in the letter. Yes, I hear Mr Heerma say. Mr. Chairman. Maybe briefly about the economy. It is very important, but I will keep it brief now, because there will be a separate debate about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u128	Exactly. I understand a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u129	Some questions have been asked about it. I am not going to repeat all the sentences of yesterday's press conference and the letter, because you have seen it all. But I'm just gonna say here that there's got to be more. There just needs to be more. We see that companies are going through their buffers. We copied the refrigerator for the catering industry to the smaller retail, but Dijkhoff and others mentioned a few examples. For example, you can no longer sell calendars from 2021 in February or March and coats have already been bought in winter from a large box on the outskirts of the city. That is also a point I wanted to make yesterday: it is of course about those beautiful companies and the people who work there, but also about our inner cities. You could also say: let's go to an economy where you don't have inner cities and only those big boxes on the outskirts of town, but nobody wants that. No one wants that. It is also the entrepreneurship, the energy that people bring and also the contributions they indirectly make to all kinds of municipal facilities, because they make sales in that city. There are so many interests to keep that beautiful small and medium-sized enterprise going, that we are putting all the rules on the screen again. There is also the point of the ideas surrounding a guarantee fund for events. We know the German proposal. I can't promise that right now, but that's being looked at very carefully. That works so that you say: just organize one big thing somewhere in August; we hope that it can be done and if it can't be done, then you get the money back as an organization, because it also has a lap time, a lead time, sometimes eight or nine months. So I can't say that all those things, all those questions that have been asked, all happen. You can never guarantee that every individual company will survive, because as an entrepreneur you must of course try to continue to respond to this. In fact, you want to tell the Netherlands across the board, including the entrepreneurs and the people who work with them, that there will be a few very difficult months, but that there will be a light at the end of the tunnel a little further away. That's the vaccine, but that's really farther away. In the meantime we go through this extra difficult period, but let's try to drag everyone to the finish line. Those proposals are coming up next week. At least that's the point. There is therefore a debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u130	Were you done with all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u131	I have two more questions. There is a question from Mr Krol about postponing the elections. We're not there. For the time being, they will continue on March 17th. All kinds of measures are being taken to enable votes to be taken. I will not list them all in the light of the time, but you know the measures. Of course, you can never completely exclude 100% that there is an epidemiological situation that requires delay, but at the moment that is not the issue. Furthermore, it is always a joint decision. It is not just a decision of the cabinet, because otherwise it will have the character of a kind of coup. Of course, it is a decision taken jointly by the Cabinet and Parliament on the basis of an analysis. I am now referring to this because of the question and some people may think: oh, the elections are being postponed. However, that is neither the intention nor the presumption at the moment. Even before the election recess, which starts on 12 February, there will be a letter on this matter from Kajsa Ollongren, the Minister of the Interior. It also examines the current situation. Finally, there was the question about the field labs. The field labs, the tests, you want to do the right thing, because it gives you information about how the weather can be when the weather is a little better. When everything's gone, fine. But the point is, how can you do it when things get better? That is why we have said before: we want these field labs to continue, even if there are still infections at that time. The fact is that we think that this is too dangerous, with the British virus involved. The Outbreak Management Team also says: delay them for a while, it is really not wise with the British virus. We have also discussed this with the organisers. They find that very regrettable, but there is also understanding. We are going to see how we can organise it as soon as possible, based on the state of play. Right now, in the old planning we had, it just can't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u132	Mr Krol, then Mrs Sazias and then Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u133	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the answer on the elections. That's not what my interruption is about, but I'm happy. Do you keep in mind that the municipalities want to know something in time? Otherwise, they're gonna get in trouble. My interruption is about the following. In September, you said so neatly: build back better. I'm so curious what you meant by that. You haven't given me that answer yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u134	By which I mean that my vision of the world after corona would be that we should do a number of things. First of all, this. When we hit the block in March last year, we had a fantastic running economy. A lot of things went very well. We had problems, too. The pension agreement had to be transposed into legislation. The Climate Agreement had to be implemented further. We had the big problem about nitrogen and we had issues about the housing market. It was not that we had no problems, but we had low unemployment, high economic growth and also for the first time in times a significant growth of disposable income in the Netherlands in 2020. That all looked good. That last one did happen, because it went on. But with all the other things, we hit the block. The first thing you need to achieve is that in terms of public health in the Netherlands, our national health, you have the matter stable again. Then you have to try to get the case back on track. Maybe not exactly as it was, but hopefully it will be back in the direction of turning the economy properly as we did. That is why we have all these support measures, so that as many companies as possible can get off the ground. Then there are major issues to be resolved. What I would like to achieve in the Netherlands, and I also think Mr Krol, from his point of view and others from their point of view, is that we are tackling these problems with all the lessons we have learned from this pandemic. This has to do with the fact that we are now also seeing what is less good in the economy and what things need to be adapted. That's an opportunity and that's built back better, so you don't exactly have the world of March 2020 back in September 2021. That would be my vision, and that is the chance we have. The Netherlands can be at the forefront of this, because we have relatively limited economic contraction compared to many other countries. We also have a limited number of bankruptcies so far. There will of course be major problems, that is certainly the expectation after the crisis...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u135	I would also like the answers to be a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u136	I quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u137	Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u138	I'm glad to hear the Prime Minister say, "Stabilise and raise," and then it's got to be better. But I think everyone is dying to hear exactly how that goes. We hear so many negative messages right now that everyone at home is really longing for: when are we going to hear our Prime Minister say how we're going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u139	To get to that point of stability around our health care you obviously have two routes. The main route will still be the vaccine. That's going to accelerate in the next few months, is the expectation, and that's going to bring us to a level that we can return to a more normal normal and hopefully all the way back to the old normal. In the meantime, of course, we get a lot of knowledge with tests and quick tests in education, around events and you name it, so that, as long as it is not safe enough, we can do a lot more together. And, of course, we have to stick to the rules. But it means that the perspective is that we are going through a couple of very difficult months now, but ultimately, thanks to the fact that vaccination started in the Netherlands, we are going to go to a situation later this year that you can expect to be comparable to the situation before the crisis. And that Mr Krol and I can shake hands again.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u140	"Comparable with the situation before the crisis" is still not built better. And I'm so curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u141	No, but that was just my answer: first you have to make sure that you technically stabilize the case in the field of health and then it would be a shame if we did not use all the insights from this crisis to make what was not good for the crisis much stronger with each other. In terms of climate, in terms of our capacity for innovation and in terms of our labour market. I also mention all the insights we have now gained in health care. We're capable of picking up short peaks, but not long peaks. We're all working on that. So on all these points there are a huge number of opportunities to make this country that is already so beautiful even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u142	I have a question about whether or not to postpone the elections. When do we, the Cabinet and the Chamber, have to take a decision on this at the latest?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u143	I'm gonna find out. What I know is that before the election recess, there will be a letter with the state of play. I don't know by heart when there's some kind of last moment. I'll find out and take it with me in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u144	Was the Prime Minister finished answering his question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u145	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u146	Then I would like to ask why he did not respond to my comments on the biodiversity summit, which was held this week. Several world leaders have made the connection between natural destruction and the emergence of new pandemics. This Prime Minister has been warned to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u147	And big zoonotic issues...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u148	And big zoonotic issues. Why didn't the Prime Minister join those world leaders instead of saying "The Netherlands is doing a lot of good and we come up with a smart mix of measurements"? Why did he say that it is most important that we ensure a level playing field for companies? Why did he say that in that gremium?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u149	That's the beauty of it, because how's it going with a videotop like that? You're ready. We have a very nice room for that with a nice wall with the Binnenhof. I was completely finished with a text containing many elements that you would have liked very much. Then I was asked a question to which I believe I had to answer in 30 seconds. I finally answered that question, when the summit went very far. I also had to go to another appointment myself; I have to admit that. I have brilliantly balanced my four pages and had to put aside my four pages as a bite-free story for all political parties and confine myself to answering one specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u150	The Prime Minister now seems to suggest that he was ready with cape and all to cast himself to prevent new pandemics. It would be nice if that were true, but what happened was that he got a question about deforestation. The case is that the Netherlands is the biggest cause of deforestation within Europe. We import soya as the largest in Europe for animal feed. We import palm oil. Here too, we are the largest in Europe. And we have the most cattle-tight country in Europe and even in the world. It seems to me that you have to answer this question and say: yes, boys, we are doing very badly, the Netherlands is a great cause of deforestation and we are going to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u151	Of course, by the way, you simply have a point when it comes to palm oil, for example. That is why it is so important that those very large palm oil users, who use palm oil, switch to sustainable palm oil. They do. We all see the enormous damage that palm oil does to Kalimantan in Malaysia. The result is that whole parts of the tropical rainforest are burned down or brewed because higher parts of tropical rainforest have been cut down to make palm oil plantations. That has enormous effects on drainage systems. Tropical rainforests become very large coal mines in terms of environmental impact. That's what's going on. I only believe more in the strength of innovation and the fact that these big companies are switching, partly under pressure from consumers and their own employees who do not want to work in a company that pollutes but in a company that has a future, that happens too than we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u152	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u153	All right, let's finish. I would point out to the Prime Minister that these round tables have been maintained with Dutch taxpayers' money for 15 years and that this has not yet saved a jungle. That doesn't work. I would like to sum up the question: can the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Cabinet, say that there are no taboos when it comes to preventing future pandemics, that we should do what scientists advise us so that we do not go through this again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u154	The first half of the sentence: yes, no taboos. As far as the second half is concerned, I am from the section that, in the event of major threats to our public health, we must rely on the expert advice of science. As we do now with the OMT, we must then get it mixed up and keep it upside down and then make the administrative and political decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u155	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment until the chair is cleaned. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u156	Mr. Chairman. I particularly want to zoom in on vaccination and on testing and tracing, because with testing, tracing and vaccination, we have the three paths that we will have to go through in the coming months. Of course, these three paths offer a real perspective, no matter how gloomy the current figures are. This is particularly true in the case of vaccination. If we look at the order of vaccination now, we expect not only the vast majority of the residents of nursing homes, disability care institutions and the people who care for them, but also the oldest elderly living at home. There is a huge amount of protection from that, especially among the group that is most vulnerable. Before the summer, we must be able to do all the groups identified as priorities by the Health Council. The whole country must then be protected by autumn. That really is a beckoning perspective when it comes to vaccination. That doesn't change the fact that we have months ahead of us. I would like to put together a number of questions that have been asked, because that is the shortest way to answer the questions that have been asked. I start with the questions about first doing the most vulnerable people and the elderly. Mr Wilders has asked a number of questions and also Mrs Marijnissen. They're justified. Yeah, we should definitely do that. That is why we have made the adjustments you found in the letter. I would like to emphasise the need to do so, because every day this discussion comes back to all the groups that raise their finger and say, "What about us?" We must continue to underline this need and continue to tell each other. It is important for the people themselves that we choose the strategy to do the most vulnerable people first. It is important for the care, not only for these people but also for the care that should otherwise be postponed. After all, if you have protected the most vulnerable people, those are also the people who are most in need of hospital care, so that then you have to postpone all kinds of other care. It is therefore also the fastest way to avoid side damage from care and maintain access to care. In addition, it is the fastest way to make more things possible in society, because if you have protected the most vulnerable people, it reduces the need for the most restrictive measures. In short, the fastest way we can choose to protect the most vulnerable people is the way we have to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u157	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u158	Once, but the logical consequence would be that with the most vulnerable, 60-plussers and younger people with chronic illness, it would only be possible to start in weeks 7 or 8, although fortunately it is somewhat earlier than you planned last week. That means, however, that a lot of people are only going to be there weeks later. I'm not even talking about the second shot. Why don't you start with that group next week or even tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u159	So what we have been able to do is make adjustments that will start on Monday with Pfizer at the nursing homes and the larger disability care institutions. That's one. Two is the adjustment that we can start on the next Monday, which is 25 January, with the small-scale forms of housing. Three is that we start with the elderly at home in mid-February. We'll see if we can bring that moment a little further forward. That has just to do with the speed with which the vaccines come in. The only inhibiting factor is the rate at which the vaccines enter. You have asked a number of questions about the supply: Maybe we should do that right away, from the idea that we're just gonna leave everything on the shelf. But it's not. What we get in is either in the upper arm or somewhere in the agenda for people who need to have two shots in a row. Where it is usually the case that you also have the supply ready for the second shot before you even start with the first shot, we are already taking much more risk of the supply. We model daily RIVM does so that it is possible to take more risk. It's not like things stay on the shelf. What is present in the Netherlands is either in an upper arm or is scheduled somewhere in an agenda. So what we've got, we're gonna use it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u160	On the schedule is just on the shelf.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u161	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u162	Yes, I do. You have two species, namely the upper arm and not the upper arm. In planning doesn't mean in the upper arm. So my proposal is: do it right away. When it comes to the bureaucracy around it and the certainty you mention: this morning, at the hearing of among others the GGD was said that the first prick is only put when there is certainty about the delivery of the second prick. I suggest you let that go and start with the first shot for the people who want it. That decision lies with you and not with the G.D.D. You may decide to do so. You can say that we are going to put the first shot even if we do not have 100% certainty that the second shot will be delivered. Look at your state. I believe you expect 7.2 billion in the first quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u163	Million. A billion would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u164	Million. So, in the end, it's all gonna have to be okay. My specific question is whether you are prepared to place the first shot on people who want it, even if there is no security of supply on the second shot, and not to make agreements, not to put it in the freezer and not to put it on the shelf. You'd be able to make a hell of a lot more first shots.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u165	That's not without risk. I'd like to take you into the complexity of those choices. My point is that we need to prick as quickly as we get the deliveries. This is how the design is arranged. We have the Health Council to advise us by vaccine on what we can do, and on what the properties of the vaccine allow. That's one. I'll get back to you on that. Two is that we have the RIVM to advise us about the risk that there is in the execution. What do we do? We'll put the shots away as soon as we can. That means that we're gonna be able to allocate it as soon as possible after the punctures have entered and after those doses have been delivered. To date, 245 000 doses have been delivered. After delivery of this week there are 400,000. We have now allocated 33,000 doses for the second injection into acute care. 408,000 doses are reserved for two shots for nursing staff. 310,000 doses, i.e. twice 155,000, are reserved for nursing care and 164 000 for the BES and CAS islands. So we have already taken a risk in relation to the shots that need to be put. There are 915,000 allocated. That's even twice as much as what's in stock right now. In a normal process you would say: we should have the second one in before we put all the first shots. That is a risk-avoidance form of stock management. We are already taking a lot more risk than we are usually used to doing. Why do we think that's justified? Because of the need for speed. That's one. Two is that we expect advice from the Health Council in the short term, although we can't say for sure yet. We expect the Health Council to say: if a delivery falls out, then it is not necessarily problematic if you can't put the second shot after three weeks, because in the fourth, fifth or sixth week it is also okay. This applies to the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine. Which means you can take a little more risk. Luckily, in the execution it is possible to bring down the pivot. In the base, before we started and before we had gained implementation experience, we assumed 10%. The GGD is now able to reach somewhere between 2% and 3%. Of course, that's fantastic. In addition, we see that we can take six instead of five doses out of a jar. Of course, that's fantastic. In short, there are reasons in the experience in the implementation why you can take a little more risk. So there is a lot more risk taken than at the point of risk that you already need to have the second shot in stock. I think we are taking quite a risk with that at the moment. This is without prejudice to my view that this risk is justified. The RIVM was, of course, invited and encouraged by me to take even more risk if it is justified, until that becomes irresponsible. I would like to say one more thing about that. If we were unable to inject the second shot within six weeks, its effectiveness would be reduced. That says not only the manufacturer, but also the FDA, for example. Our Health Council is not alone in that. But there's gonna be something else going on. Imagine you can't keep up with deliveries in the execution. Now they're all very clear numbers. Now, so to speak, you can call people one at a time and say, "Your shot's not coming this week, it's coming next week." You're gonna reschedule the appointments that were made next week. With the numbers of these weeks that is still possible, because from next Friday it will be about a thick 60,000 per week. But what if we're gonna put a million shots a week? I think we'll get over that once it's April, May, June. Then we're gonna set a million shots a week, at least. You can't cancel and reschedule a million appointments. That just doesn't work out. That's just unbelievable. In short, I think we should ask our performers for advice, also ask our performers to advise what is most responsible in terms of risk, which is justified given its effectiveness. Based on that, I make choices that are on the edge of the risk you could take. For me: nothing on the shelf, but everything in the upper arm or in the agenda, because we just have to prick what we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u166	Mr. Wilders, I see you looking. Are you getting the hang of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u167	Well, would the Minister like to repeat all that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u168	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u169	The fact that we are not really starting to vaccinate people who want to in March or April is because you are locking it now. You are now saying that there must be security of supply for the second shot. I have just heard the Prime Minister, Mr Van Dissel and you, at yesterday's press conference with the Prime Minister, all have texts of great urgency. I hear you holding lyrics on the fact that this British variant is coming, that we are going to find ourselves, that we should not have these situations from there and that we should avoid code black. Now we have a few hundred thousand vaccines in the freezer. Hopefully there will be many more in the coming weeks. Now you have the chance to prick more people first if you let go of the condition that people can only get their first shot if there is already security of supply for the second shot. One thing I know for sure: one shot is better for the people who want it to prevent them from getting sick than no shot. One shot is better than no shot. We agree, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u170	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u171	I ask my question again, because the Minister has fully explained that he is already taking risks, but he has not answered my question. Are you prepared to release the security you demand from the GD that they can only release the first shot when you have the security of delivery of the second shot? I hope so and if no, why not? As a result, many more people can now get a first shot more quickly, including those 60-plussers, even those chronically ill under 60 years old. You help people with that. One shot is better than no shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u172	A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u173	Mr Wilders repeats his assumption that everything remains on the shelf. That assumption is incorrect. We allocate at this moment to put 915,000 pricks, while we now have 245,000 in the fridge. After the delivery that comes in this week, we have 400,000. In short, we already have a lot more than there are deliveries at the moment. So I really want to take away the image that everything remains on the shelf. The pricks we have are in the arm or they're in the agenda. That's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u174	And now for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u175	Two is: we are modeling everything to be able to vaccinate as many people as possible as quickly as possible. I am going to mention a few more examples of what we are doing about it. We're putting in all the puncture channels we've got. So it doesn't only happen through the GGD, but also through the GP and all possible ways. With that, we managed to bring the nursing homes forward. Next Monday we'll start. We've brought out small-scale housing. We'll start with that a week later. We can also do the elderly living at home much sooner than in the previous planning seemed feasible. We do this by increasingly better modelling, less and less pivoting and better and more effective implementation. That's how we get that profit. Every day we look at what can be more efficient, what can be better and what can be tighter to make sure that we just keep up with deliveries. That's the only obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u176	Finally, Mr Wilders on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u177	I still haven't gotten an answer to my question. There's 60,000 shots coming up next week, that's the news. 60,000 we've heard. We'll start with the nursing homes next week. That's 60,000 in one week. I think that could be a lot more. Mr President, it may be faint to look at you, but I am now asking the question for the fourth time. Minister, you can put more first shots and one shot is better than no shot. Are you prepared to release the demand you make for the GGD? It's a political decision; the GGD says you're going to say that the first prick can only be put when there's security of supply for the second prick? Are you prepared to release that demand? I've asked that question four times now. Perhaps you can have the courtesy to answer that, whatever the answer is.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u178	You repeat something that is not so, namely that there would be a demand for the first shot only when there is security of supply for the second shot. There is no such demand. That's the basis you normally maintain. We're already taking a lot more risk than we're usually used to. I believe that this is justified, and I am relying on the advice that our chief executive of the vaccination campaign, RIVM, also considers justified. In doing so, we press the performers to take the maximum risk. So it's not a question of: there are stings on the shelf that you could put. That is the case if you are prepared to take an irresponsible risk. It is possible that the deliveries will stop at some point. Then you put one shot and you can't put the second one. That's a real shame. So we are looking for the maximum space by not only having the stocks for the first and second shots, but rather by taking a risk on stocks. There are limits to the risk that you can take at that point. In addition, we're looking for boundaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u179	Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u180	I'd like to continue with this. Will the Minister confirm that it is not wise to wait so long with the second vaccination, that that is not only sin but can really be dangerous? You don't know if that first vaccine will work if you don't put the second one. It may also be that the virus mutates and becomes resistant to the vaccine. Then we're all back to square one. That can be life-threatening and vaccine developers and doctors say we shouldn't play Russian roulette with the vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u181	It's true that you can take health risks if you do put the first shot and not the second. That's just true. The manufacturer himself shall state what is to be accounted for. Because it might still have an interest in this, we have of course asked our own Health Council what the maximum risk you could take. We are still being advised on this. The advice might be that you could extend the period to the second shot, which we now place tightly on three weeks, possibly to six weeks, but no more than that. Those are the manufacturer's guidelines. That is also the directive that the FDA maintains as sensible. I am not going to make a political decision that ignores the medical risk assessed by the experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u182	Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u183	Mr President, I would like to finish this. In addition to the medical risk, there is the execution risk. I think that we should also take our executives seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u184	Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u185	I'm glad the Minister agrees. There are quite a few doctors, virologists, but also the developers of the vaccine itself, who know the most about the vaccine they have developed themselves, who say that it is really a big risk and that you should not take it. So I am very pleased that this is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u186	Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u187	I was dubbing how to ask a question without getting into Mr Wilders' groove. I agree with Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen that you should not take irresponsible risks. At the same time, the discussion is that the British variant is entering and can become dominant. If more people got their first shot, it'll protect them from that. The minister says he's looking at how to stretch it. My first question is at what time we will be able to decide on this. Can there also be differences between the different vaccines? I read that the deadline for Pfizer is faster than for Moderna. For AstraZeneca, that could be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u188	There is indeed a different starting point for each vaccine. I've asked the Health Council to advise me on the prolongation of the puncture interval. That opinion is expected by 18 January at the latest. That makes me ask the RIVM again to model stock management. By the way, that is not only on this basis, but also on the basis of a number of other developments, namely how many vaccines you can take from a jar on average and how much spillage you have to take into account. That really seems to be less than we originally thought. This also leads to a change. Besides, we don't only have the mRNA vaccine. Maybe it's good to tell that story. We have Moderna and BioNTech/Pfizer, but besides that we probably also get AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca is incredibly important to be able to apply an acceleration, even in that older target group. That is for the reason of the puncture interval, because with AstraZeneca the puncture interval seems to be one to three months. After those three months the effectiveness decreases again, but up to three months it seems to be justified. "Looks like," I say, because the EEA has to approve it first and then the Health Council, but those are the stories right now. That could mean that you could choose a completely different type of inventory management risk for AstraZeneca and thus do a group much faster. Then the second question that we have of course put to the Health Council is: could you not use AstraZeneca for those younger elderly people, for example between 60 and 70, even though that mRNA vaccine is actually more effective for the elderly? Why? Well, that has to do with the British mutation. If we can accelerate there with a vaccine that is a little less effective, but still quite effective, also for that younger older target group, then you can apply a huge acceleration at the rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u189	I read this morning that the AstraZeneca vaccine in England is already called "the holy grail" for several reasons. But the Minister also states that, as soon as this is allowed and delivered, hopefully this vaccine will be more possible to respond to the question that Mr Wilders asked. By the way, that vaccine is also the vaccine that is delivered in the largest numbers, especially in the first quarter. So if that vaccine is there, can you give more people a first shot?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u190	Sure. Subject to the reservation that the Health Council advises that it is justified for 60- to 70-year-olds, given the comparison with the effectiveness of the mRNA vaccine for the primary target group. Just because you could prick into those numbers with a larger puncture interval, you can make more pace. Certainly with an emerging British variant that could be a possibility, but under a number of reservations. Mr. Chairman. I think I have had a number of questions with that. I therefore come now to a follow-up question by Mr Segers on the strategy. He said that the general practitioners would like to be vaccinated earlier. In fact, they say they agreed to do the same. Then what's the reaction to that? I have agreed with the general practitioners, as with all pricking professionals, that all pricking professionals can vaccinate themselves at the time they themselves start pricking. The same applies, of course, to the general practitioners. So some of the GPs are going to start with Moderna on January 25th. As a result, that part of the general practitioners in these small-scale forms of housing can be pricked from that moment on. In addition, I said: given the high need to use BioNTech/Pfizer for the primary target group, it is not wise to put more of that aside for employees in care or for others. So we shouldn't do that, especially given the fact that it is expected that AstraZeneca will enter from the beginning of February. From the week of February 8th you could start pricking Astra. In the week of February 8th we have to prick general practitioners and other employees with AstraZeneca. That's the deal, and we'll keep it. Frankly, I am also a little surprised about the news, first of all because it is said that I would not keep an appointment, which I simply did not make. I didn't make the deal that everyone was vaccinated by the end of January. So that message is just wrong. In addition, of course, everyone is free to plead for themselves. But in all reasonableness, the LHV is now asking for BioNTech/Pfizer not to be used for elderly people but for general practitioners and that while two weeks later they would be on their own with AstraZeneca. I do not think that this is a reasonable question and, frankly, I cannot imagine that there is much support for this desire of the LHV by general practitioners. Mrs Marijnissen asked about the people at health care institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u191	There is another question from Mr Segers on the previous point, the general practitioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u192	I indicated in my speech that we should be very reluctant to arrange for an order to be arranged by interruption. When you put someone in the front, you do push someone back. But should the general practitioners also be distinguished between the large group of general practitioners and those working at the covidposts? These are doctors who deal with patients every day and may be at greater risk. That's an open question, but that's all I could think of.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u193	I understand that question very well, but I do want to be loyal to the strategy. The first line anyway, but certainly also the general practitioners are of course in the front line of the covidzorg. I understand that there are great concerns about the continuity of general practitioners' care. So I understand the question. I think that question is legitimate, and I understand it. Only, the only way to accommodate that question would be to say: then we are going to separate ourselves for an x-number of thousands of general practitioners from which selection you make anyway, keeping BioNTech/Pfizer separate and using those vaccines for them at the expense of a group that we are sure will benefit more from the protection that that vaccine provides. Well, I think that is a choice I really do not want to make in this context, certainly not given the high level of infection and certainly not given the increasing threat of new infections by the British variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u194	I get that. I'm gonna leave that decision right there. Certainly, the cabinet must be faithful to its strategy and the chosen order if it is communicated. All I asked was: should there still be a distinction between the large group of normal general practitioners and those who work at the covidpost and come into contact with patients every day? I could have imagined that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u195	That's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u196	When Astra comes in, the first delivery could be huge. 800,000 is the latest prognosis issued for that purpose. Let's just assume that the entire 800,000 will pass. Of course, we don't know that for sure. They probably come from different factories and it all has to comply with the same quality control. So we're all not sure, but if 800,000 come through, then you don't have to be very picky when determining which general practitioners first and which general practitioners afterwards. Then it seems to me that you can just do the whole group that didn't start working through small-scale housing at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u197	I also think that a lot of general practitioners are indeed a bit underappreciated. Maybe it should be another word. They are, of course, very much in this emergency care too. They see that other care workers have been vaccinated during the last week. I think that's where some of the unrest among general practitioners comes from. They thought it would be their turn by now. I'd like to zoom in on that Moderna vaccine. In the government's vaccination strategy we see that this will be used by the ggz clients and in small-scale housing, but also by non-mobile residents. I am getting more and more messages from general practitioners today who say that it is not actually possible with this Moderna vaccine because you have a lot of waste if you can only apply it to one person, and because you have to observe that Moderna vaccine for 15 minutes or the person being vaccinated does not have a bad reaction to it. That is why this is not really suitable for people at home or in small-scale general practitioners' practices, they say. Does the Minister recognise these signals, and does that lead to another weighting of where we can best use the Moderna vaccine?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u198	Mr Klaver asked for that too. As I understand it from RIVM, Moderna is hardly more manageable, even worse, actually not better than the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine, because of these properties among others. The first feature that is complicated is that you can only transport it from the manufacturer thawed once. That's where I look up space by asking the CBG to look at it again. Could there possibly be more room in there than the manufacturer is saying? The manufacturer says: we also do this a little for the sake of certainty because it is a very unstable vaccine. So for the moment they say: after thawing no more than once transport. That is extremely clumsy, because at the same time it is the next clumsy.................................................................................................................................................................. So the waste will be extremely large if you can only transport it once after thawing. Or your vaccine routes become extremely inefficient, making the rate of vaccination very low. So this is a huge puzzle. So I would very much like more space on the number of modes of transport after thawing; that is one. But we will also have to get used to it, for example, in the small-scale forms of housing that we supply to the general practitioners and that the people from the small-scale forms of housing come to these general practitioners' posts. That is the most efficient way to prevent waste and keep as much speed as possible in this vaccination. How efficient it is for home residents, for example, will be really disappointing, but we puzzle ourselves to make that possible, because we do need those vaccines.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u199	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u200	Very briefly, Mr President, this is good to hear. I also think that general practitioners are concerned that they have to observe for 15 minutes or someone does not have a bad reaction to this vaccine. That is not possible in many places, because then you are with too few general practitioners or too few assistants to do that observation in a good way. Then vaccinating on site, in small-scale residential forms or with home residents, might be better than in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u201	In the beginning, we will certainly do so in particular at the general practitioners' posts. You should also not rule out that at some point we are also looking at the central puncture locations of the GGD for those Moderna vaccines. Especially once Astra enters with large ships, we probably want Astra in as many cases as possible, only knowing that those mRNA vaccines work so well for the elderly. You're gonna have to use it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u202	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u203	I was shocked by what I read about the vaccine that can only be moved once, because the whole theory on which the strategy was built was that this vaccine was easier than that of BioNTech/Pfizer. I went to work last Friday at Catharina Hospital. Then you see that distributing the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine is actually much easier. As an example: they had already bought such a freezer for -70 ̊C. But it is not used, because you can keep the vaccine outside the refrigerator long enough. My question to the Minister is what it means for the distribution of vaccines that the Moderna vaccine may be even more difficult to handle.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u204	The first delivery of the Moderna vaccines coming in is 13,200 this week, and I believe 19,000 in two weeks. So it's very small streams. We're just going to put it away in the way I just said: in small-scale housing, through the general practitioners' posts. There is a way for that and that is the way that is just going to be walked. In any case, we can do what everyone wants, namely the stuff we get in, quickly stick it away. If it comes in in larger numbers, we need to think carefully how to do it most efficiently. If we can make more transport movements possible, it may be possible to do so after thawing. So that's the one room that's in it. Perhaps you should, even further, go to more central locations. There are all kinds of variants and they are also worked out. All kinds of scenarios are next to each other, with one goal: to use the vaccines we receive as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u205	I said in the previous debate that we need large-scale locations; we do not know exactly how the next vaccines will work. Then it was said: no, because the new vaccines that are coming are going to be used in the institutions themselves. Turns out that's not possible. We only have 25 major test sites at the moment. So, a question I also asked in my first term: how many large test sites are being prepared at this time? How many people are there to man those locations right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u206	The upcoming deliveries of Moderna we can just put away in this way, so there is no obstacle there. Possibly we will also use Moderna on the large-scale injection sites of the GGD. I'd rather not, because you'd rather have those Moderna vaccines at home for the elderly too, but we're going to ask more elderly people to count on the group of mobile elderly people to come to central puncture locations. In addition, the GGD is, of course, working on expanding and also scaling up the number of locations there is. I'm gonna check the numbers. I don't know how many there are going to be, but at least it's going to be a lot more, even at all, to get the volume with which you can put the vaccines away, especially in the second quarter. In the first quarter it is a small 8 million that can be disposed of. In the second quarter, it's 19 million if everything gets through. In addition, you need the full volume of the GPs and the full volume of the GGDs, in the sum total perhaps one million vaccines or more per week. If you want to get that volume, you're gonna need a lot more locations. So it's decorating the GGD as well right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u207	I don't have a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u208	No, I'm fine. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u209	We discussed this in December; we discussed this in the previous debate. And every debate so far I don't get to hear how many additional locations there are for the GGD, except that the GGD is working on it. Yeah, we're gonna have to scale up that second quarter. But even now. So it turns out. Because in the first quarter we also expect a very high number of vaccines from Moderna. So my question is, with data, how much is the scaling-up of the number of large-scale locations in the first quarter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u210	They're working on it. Mr President, I really ask Mr Klaver to understand that the work is in progress. In any case, it is not the case that the number of locations or the number of stakes at the moment is even somewhat obstructive, not even for the speed we need to make in the coming time. The GGDs should be ready to be able to administer larger numbers as well. In no way do the GGDs see a problem in this: after the first 25 have been set up, number 2, 3 and 4 are already being set up in all regions. So that's not where the obstacle is. It doesn't belong to the number of people, the number of pricks the GGDs could get. Eventually, the GGD alone is about 5,000 or more people who are needed to put away half a million vaccines a week and if you look at the general practitioners, it's about even bigger numbers. But of course there are also many more general practitioners and general practitioners. In short, it's real work in progress. So I can't predict how many locations there will be in March or April or whatever. No. What we're doing is putting the puzzle further and further. We need to be maneuverable in the execution, I said. I have also asked for this maximum manoeuvrability from all the implementing parties. Of course I ask them if there are any obstacles, for example in locations or numbers of people you could recruit to do the job. Executors see no obstacle to that, so it's work in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u211	I will give you the floor in a moment, but I also recognise the same questions from previous debates and note that this debate will be partly technical briefing, partly written rounds of questions and partly debate. At some point we must look for a form in which a number of questions may be answered in writing in one way or another, so that the debate is conducted on the main lines and does not last indefinitely, I say in general terms. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u212	Clear. I'm gonna ask you one more question. I'm gonna take one more shot. Why is that so important? I'm asking a pretty specific question. I am not asking what it looks like in April, because that is very far ahead in this crisis. I ask what it actually looks like in the first quarter, so until April. I asked that in December, and I asked it last week. Why is that important? Because so far, every time the minister said that the GGD was scaling up and that it was all under control, we finally heard from the GGD that it had been given the assignment too late. Last week we heard in the debate: sorry, we actually ordered the GGD to scale up too late. My concern is that we won't have enough capacity to inoculate in the first quarter. That is why I am not asking for this first quarter any longer; I am asking as little as possible how many locations and how many people are available and what capacity per day we end up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u213	To start with that last question: the capacity of the hospital not per day, but per week of the hospital will have to be at least one million to put away vaccines per week in the sum that the general practitioners and the health care services can realize. That has also been the content of the administrative consultation of the last few days. That's one. Two. I don't think we'd do the GDs justice if we pretended they weren't sufficiently capable of scaling up quickly. When they tested, they showed that they can. Also in the source and contact research, they have shown that they can. In vaccinees, they have shown that they are able to set up, man up and start 25 central puncture sites within a month. That's a huge achievement. The G.D.D.s can do this. That also gives me no reason to doubt the answer I get when I ask the GD's: given the volume of vaccines we get in and given the starting point that what we get in should also be sprayed away, are you able to scale up enough quickly to reach those numbers? The answer to that question is every time I ask that question: yes. Every time we take a step, I start talking to the performers: how are you going to put this away in the execution? Are you able to be ready in time for the start of the next tranche? This means that I will be able to inform you more specifically each time how many locations there are from which moment. Know that at least right now all the GGDs in all regions are preparing themselves for more locations than that one central, of course. So location two, three and four are already being set up for each region, knowing that there will soon be about half a million GGDs per week alone. With the general practitioners, the numbers are of course much larger. We have 35,000 GPs and 5,500 GPs that can sting. There the potential volume is much larger. We'll make sure we're ready when we're ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u214	Mr Klaver, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u215	Reference is now made to the general practitioners. The great concern that exists today, including with the Moderna vaccine, is that it is actually the most efficient to use in those large locations. I continue to find it worrying that the Minister does say that the third and fourth locations will be cancelled, but that he cannot tell us how many locations this is about. I think he should have a look at that, from the responsibility that this minister has. My question is not about the fact that we will have to do a million vaccines from April, but is about this month. I say that here because it is not acceptable if next month it turns out that there are not enough locations. The Chamber has pointed that out time and time again. We have apparently been looking at a different GMD over the last few months, because they were too late with the contact research and they were too late with the scaling up of the test capacity. They have indeed set up the sites for vaccination very quickly, but in places this could be at the expense of the test capacity. It's almost a lucky thing it's not so crowded out there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u216	I don't think the latter is fair to the G.D.D.'s. Over 100,000 tests are now being conducted every day. There are 376 locations for testing, I believe. There are now 7,500 FTE source and contact researchers at the GGD. With a month, they'll be ready at 25 locations to vaccinate, poach the sleeves to do whatever it takes and prick away everything that comes in. I look at the general practitioners and I see the same drive. There is a tremendous drive to do as many volumes as possible as quickly as possible. Both the GGD and the GPs show each year that they are capable of doing this. So I don't think we're gonna do them any justice if we're so contemptuous of what they're capable of. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u217	It is a huge downer that we have now learned that the vaccine can only be transported once. This means that people who are not mobile, such as the elderly and the disabled, cannot be vaccinated at home and must go to a central place. Is the strategy also taking account of this transport?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u218	Oh, yeah. Transport is well taken into account. I do think we should assume that if we want to prick the elderly very quickly with a mRNA vaccine, more elderly people are expected to come to a central location. This means that children and grandchildren are expected to bring grandmother sometime, because that is the most practical way to achieve it. With regard to the transport restrictions on the Moderna vaccine, you can say the following. Suppose we come to the conclusion that we really want to use it on a large scale and actually fail to actually use it at home. Then we'll still have to do it in more central locations. This means that we need to invest even more in making transport possible. That's not a problem; we're just gonna do that. And it means we're gonna ask the GPs to do more with those other vaccines. So we keep putting the puzzle on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. So if it can't be done the way it has to be done, then it has to be done the way it can. In this way, we ensure that we continue to use the vaccines as practically as possible. And if the vaccines can't reach the people, then people have to go to the vaccines. We're just gonna arrange that to get as much speed as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u219	Good to hear. I just think that you should think about this very quickly, because for the people who are immobile, the elderly, but also the disabled, that will of course be quite an operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u220	Yes, of course. It's gonna be a whole operation. It is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u221	Please continue. Excuse me, Mrs. Marijnissen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u222	I do wonder whether the Minister still has full control over his own vaccination strategy when you see how the strategy turns upside down every time and how all kinds of groups who, by the way, are the first to want the vaccine, are currently competing with each other. But in the debate we had here for Christmas...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u223	Please put the phone down.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u224	In the meantime, Mr. Chairman, I need to ask you a question once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u225	Yeah, but still, it's important to make contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u226	I can do two things at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u227	I can wait. In the debate before the ceremony, this was about the letter to be sent by the healthcare providers to their staff on 4 January to call for vaccination. At that time we asked whether this was a good agreement with the healthcare organisations. Isn't that gonna go wrong? The Minister said at the time that it would be well aligned with the care organisations, but unfortunately we now see that it has gone wrong. My question to the Minister is: how can this happen in the case of something as crucial as the use of vaccines, which is our route out of this crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u228	That's about the vaccination peeps. Of course, I got those signals, too. But let's get back to how we did that. That's not just a misunderstanding. That is not possible, because we have made very clear agreements, repeatedly, with the umbrella organisations. So every employer really knew exactly what was expected of him. On 28 December, a clear instruction was given on the order in which employers had to invite and select their people. This also goes well in 99% of the cases; I am very keen to underline this. So employers are very much in good faith in that. They are selective and invite precisely those people who should actually be invited. They're sending a letter to these people. Now I understand that a number of employers have not done so and say: yes, but it was all not clear. Well, if it wasn't all clear, how can it be that about all your colleagues have understood, but you haven't? That's one. Two is: it's not fair to point it at someone else, because you really didn't do that properly as an employer. I say to those employers: fix the mistake you've made and make sure you clear the spot in the line you're using right now, which was meant for someone else, for whoever it was meant for.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u229	Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u230	I think it's important to do it that way. There was one other way in which I could have done it, namely by rigging up a huge bureaucracy and letting the GGD see who actually got that letter. Then it should have been checked very carefully first if it was all right and if it was someone from the primary process who indeed had client contact. I deliberately didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u231	The Minister gives a strong sneak to the care organizations. He's talking about whether or not he's in good faith and that it's not fair to put it off. But I see above all that the Minister himself is pushing it off, because we did indeed in the debate we had asked for for the Christmas celebrations, and we also actually insisted on making sure that it is properly arranged because it should not go wrong. The conclusion is that we are here a few weeks later and that it has gone wrong. This leads to the painful situation that we have had vaccines in the Netherlands for several weeks now, but that not one of the most important target groups, the most crucial target group to vaccinate and the most vulnerable people, our elderly in nursing homes, has had that vaccine. That's incredibly painful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u232	It's totally separate. You know what choices we've made. You also know that on 24 December there was an opinion from the Health Council, which says: because of its high effectiveness, you should actually try to reserve as many vaccines as possible for the elderly. That was also the reason why we looked again to see if we could not repack. The solution for the nursing homes will start next Monday, so I think we will do exactly what your Chamber wants, what I want and what the Health Council wants. I have indeed made the political choice, Mr President, and you may think differently, so that you do not call off the staff from the nursing homes. I could have done that, but I didn't. I don't think you're suggesting that either. The second issue on the agenda is that a number of employees have snuck in who do not have direct customer contact. That's one. A number of employees have also snuck in and are not part of the nursing home group but part of the community care. Who's that with? I don't invite those employees myself. I can't do that either, because I don't employ them. The employers will really have to do so themselves. Very clear agreements have been made with these employers. This has been done repeatedly with umbrella organisations, and this has also been repeatedly confirmed by umbrella organisations to their members. Most people have followed that perfectly. Most employers have done that incredibly well, but a very small number of employers have thought: well, you know, I do it anyway. I don't know if that was a mistake or a conscious mistake. I cannot overlook that, but to the employers who have made a mistake in it, I say: fix that mistake. Could I have done it differently? That is a fair question from Mrs Marijnissen. Yeah, by rigging up a huge bureaucracy and getting the GGDs to check where exactly someone had heard in the route and so on. I did not want to do that, because this bureaucracy is also at the expense of speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u233	Mrs Marijnissen, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u234	I don't think it's fair for the minister to say "I didn't want to call off the staff in the nursing homes," because nobody wants to call off the staff in the nursing homes. If he were honest, he would say what was on the table in full detail in the previous debate, namely that the only reason they were first called was because the cabinet was late, because it had a wrong strategy and went wrong, and because the GDs were not ready in time to ensure that the most vulnerable group, the elderly, would also be vaccinated first. That's how it went. I do not think it is fair or proper that the Minister here says: I did not want to call off the staff in the nursing homes. No, of course not. Finally, my final question. It's about the Moderna vaccine. We understand there was an offer for a delivery of the Moderna vaccine. It would come in the fourth quarter, but the cabinet said: "Well, we thank you for that. We're not ordering that. We're not taking that vaccine." I am very curious about this and I would like to know from the Minister whether that is a sensible move, given that at the moment only two of the possible six vaccines have been authorised. Moderna is one of them. We see with the other vaccine, from Pfizer, how uncertain the deliveries are. Isn't it a risk to let that delivery pass us by? Couldn't the Minister have said better: we'll take it, because right now we can use all the vaccines that are there?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u235	Let's get back to the first thing Mrs. Marijnissen said. That's not a proper representation. From the very beginning, the cabinet has deliberately chosen the most vulnerable people and the people who care for them. That was the whole conscious choice. That is also a choice that has been followed. Then came the advice of the Health Council on the 24th evening, which said: given its high effectiveness, you should use even more of this type of mRNA vaccines for the most vulnerable elderly. We have said: we are going to do that, but we are not going to call off the group of employees in long-term care. I think it is fair to say that in that way, precisely because there are no free choices. If your question were "would you be able to serve more elderly people at those central puncture locations in the next few weeks?', Then the answer would be: "Yes, you can, if you say to the staff in nursing care: go back." If we say one thing and we don't say the other, we're not being honest. There is no free choice. That's one. Two is that the Moderna vaccines do not excel in handling. I think we can say that. Besides, it's about me getting something extra from the Moderna vaccine in the fourth quarter, but in the fourth quarter we really hope to be ready. We hope for 7.6 million in the first quarter, 19 million in the second quarter and 18 million in the third quarter. This allows us to vaccinate the Netherlands twice already. So I don't have that many extra deliveries in the fourth quarter. For everything else one could deliver in the second quarter, that is true. That's why I pushed very hard on extra BioNTech/Pfizer vaccines. Fortunately, the Commission has managed to make a nice deal, in which we naturally want to create the maximum space for the Netherlands. What seems already possible is that of that additional 200 million from BioNTech/Pfizer for the coming year, over 7 million is already available for the Netherlands as a whole, and nearly 3 million of this in the second quarter. Look, that's helpful. This means that you can vaccinate the elderly much sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u236	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u237	In short, we are always looking at what is really going on. We're not just gonna buy what we can buy. We're only gonna buy what we can buy in as much as quarter two, because we need to be able to get even more acceleration in that than we already can.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u238	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u239	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u240	I would like to know how far you are in answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u241	I'm a long way. At least, inside the block of vaccination, huh? Because after that, we have other things to do. Mr Segers had a question about COVAX: how can we help other countries? I would like to stress that from the outset we have done everything possible to help third world countries, countries which, on their own strength, could not come up with a vaccine. We do that in different ways. One of them is to support more the financial facility "COVAX' which then buys the vaccines and distributes them through Gavi to those countries that do not have access to a vaccine themselves. But we also do so through all those advance purchase agreements that we have made from the beginning to produce in advance much larger numbers than we actually need ourselves. In doing so, we have made it possible for all vaccine developers to produce huge numbers, which will benefit these countries in particular. In short, I really want to underline that we are doing a great deal and that Europe and all the Member States of Europe are making the greatest contribution to this COVAX facility. I think it is important to underline that. Mr Van der Staaij says that everyone is free to opt for vaccination or not, but could people also choose which type of vaccine they can receive? Of course, that is very liberal of Mr Van der Staaij, but the puzzle is already difficult enough. To add a liberal element, which, of course, we are a little farewell from, to this puzzle, does not seem to me to be a good idea. Mr Van Haga asks: would it not be wise to vaccinate only the elderly and the vulnerable, because people under 65 get less sick? No, I don't think that's wise, because some of the people under 65 are getting sick. Even if that is a small percentage, at a high level of infection, the disease and mortality are high. In short, we should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u242	You would answer all the questions relating to the vaccinations. Or was that the last one?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u243	Mr Van Haga asks what I am going to do about the social pressure on staff in healthcare institutions. I am not going to do anything about that, because I think it is very sensible that employees in health care institutions explain to each other why it is so important to be vaccinated. We also see that vaccination readiness is fantastic. From different hospitals, 97%, 98% or 99% are reported. That's fantastic. In the nursing homes the time slots also seem overdrawn, so there too it goes very well and that is only fantastic. I would also like to emphasise that the term 'indirect vaccination' simply does not fit in with that. Don't use it anymore as far as I'm concerned, because it just doesn't fit in. Telling each other that it's okay to have you vaccinated is exactly what we need to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u244	I understand what the Minister is saying, namely that the puzzle is already tricky enough and that he doesn't need to get any more tricky puzzle pieces added. But at the same time, later this year, there may be another situation, via a general practitioner, where there would be a desire for someone between 18 and 60 years without a medical indication: I have studied it and I think the Pfizer vaccine is very good, but do I have certain objections to the Oxford vaccine? Then why wouldn't you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u245	Because it also needs to remain manageable in logistics. Imagine that in a large group of 18- to 60-year-olds, those 7 million, we would say: we will ask both the general practitioners and the GGDs to do so. Then it will be so that a general practitioner in his practice has just one kind of vaccine that he stabs with. Because it is just complicated to have to do the different operations side by side each vaccine. This also applies to a GGD location. They may be able to handle two vaccines, but a kind of "do me that flavor" model seems complicated to me to introduce into the implementation. So I just think it would be my very last wish on a very long list of wishes for implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u246	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u247	Yes, Chairman, finally. I understand what the Minister is saying, and I am not talking about a general freedom of choice for everyone, but rather about the fact that there are indeed people who have that particular desire? For example, to give you a concrete example of how you came up with this, it may have to do with people who say: I have difficulty with the way the Oxford vaccine was created, with the way human cell lines were once used in it, and I do not have that with the Pfizer vaccine. If logistics were to be feasible, perhaps people would have to make more effort to do so themselves. Why shouldn't they? Would the Minister care to consider whether that might be an option?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u248	If Mr Van der Staaij asks me to think about it, I find it so difficult to say: well, no, I don't even want to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u249	So you're gonna think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u250	Yes, but in terms of expectations management... I thought about it for a while, and the most sensible answer seems to me: let's not add any more complexity, because it's all complicated enough. So that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u251	I suggest you move on to the next topic. That's the test policy, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u252	Yeah, testing and quarantine, and I'll include the travel section. Mr Klaver has often, and rightly so, pointed out the need for more testing and more extensive testing. I added that I would like to do so risk-oriented, because it has the most effectiveness. So that's what we're doing right now. Lansingerland has begun. South is coming, at least Charlois, Dronten is coming and Bunschoten is coming. We do that because there is a high level of contamination and we also want to slow down by testing and tracing. This is in the context of what the Prime Minister has just explained, namely that we need to reduce the level of contamination at all. This also means that the inhibiting effect of tests and source and contact research in the sum is maximum again. And that inhibiting effect is of course not maximum when you have to do 10,000 source and contact examinations a day. Even if you can, the degree of risk-focusedness makes that there's always something of leakage in it. In short, the test readiness should be increased, the number of source and contact tests you need to do should be reduced, and therefore the level of infection should be reduced. And then you can expect the maximum braking effect of also large-scale risk-based testing. What we want to do now is risk-oriented, large-scale testing in these municipalities. But what I really want is for this to be one of the tools in all the GGD regions to deploy: outbreak-oriented, anyway. I think it is very sensible how the GGD in Rotterdam did that towards Lansingerland: at first large-scale in those schools, because at one school it was 800 people and then the second school also got through it. And now all of Lansingerland follows; I think it is very good to be able to fly on top of it on a large scale when it is needed. And that should actually be made possible in every region. Therefore, overcapacity must be on the public side. What we also need to do, and more often, is to be asked by Mr Jetten, but that is also what GroenLinks' plan is to test more intensively to make social life possible again. We need to intensify that too. Moreover, we do not attract the capacity of the GDPs. What we have in mind with VNO and are working on is to set up a separate test-e.g. to enable access tests. In order to make things possible at some point, if we are not yet far enough away from vaccination, if we nevertheless have a threat of that British variant and if there is a high level of contamination, we will have to apply access tests more and more. In order to make this possible, a Health Council recommendation will be issued in the very short term to see what is more possible from a legal and ethical point of view. That's gonna come in the short term. What I want as soon as possible is to work with the field labs. I want to make it clear next week when we can get to work on that. What we then need to do as soon as possible is to organise access tests with VNO, also in terms of capacity. In addition, we also need to make it digitally possible. Developing a digital application, to enable access testing in a digital way, has been ongoing since the end of last year. In short, everything that is needed for this is running. We are working very hard to make that possible, so that we can actually use it, if the risk of infection allows us to do so. Apart from that, of course, there is testing in the schools. Apart from that, there is, of course, the possibility of testing employers to make safe working possible. And apart from that, the pilot also runs self-testing, because I still think that self-testing can also play a very important role in the overall capacity of large-scale and frequent testing. That's how we do it. Then there's the willingness to test. Looks like it's lower. The funny thing is that the number of tests on the day before Christmas was about 80,000, very high. Apparently, we're all concerned that we'd infect our mother-in-law at Christmas, run to the test street. Now that willingness is actually at 50% of the capacity. At the same time, we know that a large proportion of people with complaints are currently not being tested sufficiently. In short, we have to get to work on that. All the opportunities we have for this, such as yesterday's press conference, are used to highlight the need for testing. Next Saturday, a large-scale campaign will be launched to highlight the importance of monitoring measures, including testing and quarantine. We also do this in a target-oriented way. I always ask: where is this target group campaign for young people? But then I'm told I'm not in the target group anymore. It seems to take place on TikTok. My daughter would rather I didn't commit to that. I was allowed to make a video of her once, but otherwise, she'd rather not. In addition, we are, of course, trying to make the taking of a test more and more low-threshold and faster testing methods, such as the antigen test and the breath test with all its limitations in terms of reliability. We're actually trying to use everything that's possible. Then the quarantine. The quarantine willingness is perhaps even more worrying, because testing alone is not as crazy as you are not willing to take the full conclusion of a positive test result. We know that quarantine readiness is low when returning from a high risk area: 31% when experiencing complaints, 31% when a roommate has complaints and 44% when reporting the GGD and 58% when a roommate is positive. Even if they are tested positively, three-quarters of the people comply with the quarantine obligation, but a quarter of them do not. That's just not good. What we need to do with this is first of all to communicate very much more intensively about that testing will not help at all if you are not prepared to accept the consequences of a positive test result. Two is that we do a lot more in quarantine support. There's a lot going on, in the sense of quarantine coaches being deployed. They will start in the second half of January. They are currently being trained by the Red Cross. They help people to think about the question: how can you properly shape the quarantine obligation at home? I also mention the support of all kinds of volunteers, including through the Red Cross. There are now 80,000 available to help through Ready2Help, a Red Cross project. Then it's very specific: yes, but I have to quarantine, but who does the shopping for me? Well, they can do that. Or: I have to quarantine, but who will let the dog out for me? Well, they can do that. We say to people: use it, because that support is there. The quarantine guide is issued every time the GGD orders to go into quarantine, which includes all the help for people and all the telephone lines. In short, we really support people on all sides. Then you have the quarantine obligation as the final piece. Mr Heerma referred to this and Mr Klaver referred to it. When I suggested this quarantine obligation earlier, I indicated that a quarantine obligation could already be imposed. But that's very complicated, so I'd much rather have an administrative design of the quarantine obligation. Then it was general feeling in the Chamber: wouldn't you first on the side of support do a lot more than you've done so far? I understand that, and that's right, so we do. That doesn't mean we've stopped the administrative design of the quarantine obligation. As soon as it is ready in a practical way, it will come to the Chamber. I'll say something about that. With the high number of BCOs that are currently required to be carried out per day, a quarantine obligation is difficult to implement. In any case, the number of necessary BCOs done per day will have to go down. But I'm in favour of a quarantine obligation as a closure. That was me, and I still am. I'm working on how it's worked out. Only in the order of things I wanted to do the support and then the duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u253	Do you have anything relating to...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u254	Apart from traveling, but with respect to the rest. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u255	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u256	It is good to hear that the support of the quarantine will get much better in the coming weeks, because I think that is going to be a lot of people who do not want to stick to it now. I'd like to return to the test readiness. I am pleased to hear that a new campaign is being launched on this subject. I understood from the GGD last week that at this time of year people usually have the most cold problems. You'd expect very high numbers of tests right now, but we don't see them. What strikes me is that there are two misconceptions. One is that people still think a little through the experiences of spring: if I have to get tested, I'll be on the phone for a very long time and before I get my turn, I'll be two days ahead and have to wait for days for my rash. That's when the G.D.D. can do it super fast. I think it would be good to emphasise that in that campaign. The other thing that worries me more is: if you are vaccinated, it is not certain that you are no longer contagious. So even after vaccination, it is very important to continue testing. I ask the Minister: are these two elements in the campaign? It's super simple to get tested these days, and even if you've been vaccinated, it's still very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u257	Yeah, sure. The whole ride, from appointment to result, now lasts 35 hours, so well within the normal time of 48 hours. There are a lot of experiences that it goes faster: you haven't hung up the phone yet or you'll find yourself with a cotton swab in your nose before you know it. It's going very fast. That is something that is certainly being addressed. The second one is currently being addressed in the campaign towards care workers: let yourself be tested in the near future if you have any complaints, because you may remain contagious.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u258	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u259	In fact, just after you've been vaccinated or gotten the first shot, you can still get corona. That doesn't mean you're protected. Mr. Chairman. Then the UK variant and the concerns surrounding travel. There has been a lot of talk just now. I would like to emphasise that there is no objection in principle to a flight ban in the Cabinet. That's what we showed you. When Van Dissel called us on 19 December with the communication on that UK variant, we also imposed a flight ban that same evening. We were the first to do this in Europe, after which the rest of Europe followed. It is good to emphasise this once in a while. On 20 December we imposed a ban on the use of ferries. On 21 December, South Africa was banned from flying. In short, a flight ban is an instrument that you must want to use if necessary. But if it is possible to take a more proportionate measure, then it is wise to choose. You could opt for a flight ban in conjunction with a necessity statement: it is forbidden, unless someone else considers that your flight is necessary. The Minister of IenW has explained in detail why this declaration of necessity does not work. There are a lot of legal and practical reasons why this is not possible. If you then fall back on a general flight ban, then if you can also choose a more proportionate variant, there are more disadvantages than benefits. Why? Because then it becomes impossible to make a necessary journey. For example, if you're supposed to be at a funeral in England, you can't go there. If someone from England has to go to a funeral in the Netherlands, he can't go there. The transport of goods is also a problem. To a large extent, this takes place in aircraft which are also used in civil aviation. You can really have supply problems by stopping passenger transport altogether. Again, if it's necessary, you have to do it. Then it's part of the deal. But if there's anything else you can think of, you have to do it. A detailed debate was held last week on the introduction of a negative test declaration. That law has been passed. The question has been asked: should you not shorten the 72 hours further? This has all kinds of practical disadvantages, so that people can no longer fly at all, not even for necessary journeys. That is why colleague Van Nieuwenhuizen has been looking for an additional negative antigen test for the negative PCR test of up to 72 hours old. It is added as an obligation for flights from the UK and South Africa. That is therefore an additional obligation. This applies not only to aircraft but also to trucks. I think that could be of great added value. You minimise the risk of reintroducing or introducing the UK variant. For this reason, it is an important addition to the existing measures. I would like to underline once again: if it is necessary to set a flight ban, we will simply do so, unless we have a more proportionate implementation to achieve the same goal. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my speech. That's how fast it can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u260	Well, it wasn't fast. Thank you. Oh, Mr. Klaver has another question. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u261	If we are asked why we cannot open the catering industry by testing, it is said that the risk is too great. When it comes to people entering the UK or from South Africa, the Minister says: with these two tests it should be enough. That doesn't weigh with each other, that's double standards. It is indeed time to make sure that the number of flights goes down drastically, but also drastically. If it is necessary to have a flight ban for the next few weeks, then I think that is a step that needs to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u262	So that's what we did when we needed it. We then put a stop to the introduction in the very short term. We then searched for a proportional variant that aimed at the same goal and also achieved: keeping the virus out. That negative test statement is effective, especially with that double lock or actually even a triple lock, because you do a negative PCR test 72 hours before departure, then just before boarding a quick test............................................................................................................. So in that combination, you have a triple lock on keeping the virus out. I think that is incomparable with all the reasons for taking other measures for the catering industry, because they have much more to do with all movements and all social contacts. In short, what we are doing here is achieving what I think you want to achieve, namely keeping the virus out of the door and preventing people with the virus from entering their trunks.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u263	Finally, Mr Klaver. That's really the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u264	Then you assume these people will be quarantined for five days. What's the regime on that? Is it being checked? Indeed, we still see the reports that tourists are coming to the Netherlands. They don't come to the Netherlands to spend five days in their hotel room. If there's no obligation or control, your system is leaking. In my opinion, this means that you must take further steps and indeed you must take the obligation to show why it is important that you come to the Netherlands. In fact, it's very simple: someone can come here because of urgent family conditions or because of economic interests that are so big that you have to be here. If you only come here to enjoy the Amsterdam canals, then stay home.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u265	I very much agree with that. That's what you achieve by doing what we're doing right now. I think that is the most proportional design of the objective that Mr Klaver is trying to achieve. We do not disagree with that objective. Nor about the willingness, if necessary, to proceed to a flight ban. We have shown that we are also prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u266	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u267	One of the measures in this respect is that we discussed a bill last week in which a negative test result has to be shown before you can enter the Netherlands. In the state-of-the-art letter from the government, I read that documents are possible in a number of languages, namely Dutch, English, German, French, Spanish, Italian and Portuguese. What is the logic of only these languages?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u268	I think it's kind of generous, though. We've got the bulk of the world with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u269	That is exactly the wrong eurocentric image that it demonstrates. The world is bigger than just Europe. The world is bigger than the Netherlands, England, Germany, France, Spain, Italy and Portugal. I recognise that Spanish and Portuguese are spoken in South America.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u270	English is spoken in many countries and so is Spanish.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u271	I miss a number of languages in the list that is also widely spoken, such as Russian, Arabic, Mandarin/Chinese. What is the logic of not including these languages in the stand-of-business letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u272	Mr President, I am interfering in a lot of things, including a lot of details, but in the number of languages in which you can show a negative test statement, I have not yet gone into a lot of detail. I would ask Mr Kuzu to take this question with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u273	I'll let you do that. That's mild of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u274	Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u275	I believe that the debate on this additional antigen test is already taking place in a number of debates. It's being added now, and I think this is wise. At the same time, I would like to touch on the last question put by Mr Klaver. People's willingness to quarantine is by far the lowest when entering high-risk areas. Today, in Germany, it has been announced that both pressure and compulsion will do more to enforce this quarantine when entering high-risk areas. Mr. Klaver just hinted at that. That's going to happen by actively texting people with texts like "you need to quarantine." This is also a step towards obligation. Is the Minister prepared to look specifically at this group when the administrative quarantine obligation comes into effect? Mr Klaver has a point to make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u276	Yeah, I've been looking at quarantine duty before, including the one in Germany. Very interesting is that, in the same week in which the Court reduced the maximum fine to €95, a plea was made in Germany to increase the fine for the quarantine obligation correctly, I believe to be €5,000. I am therefore looking at Germany's way of shaping these matters with some regularity. That's one of the reasons why I'm on the whole for a quarantine obligation, especially in this case. It's about people moving in. We can see that people who travel in particular keep to the quarantine obligation in the most lousy way. If that's what you want, it's that you also need to organise enforcement in a good way. Enforcement means that someone must actively impose that duty, and also that someone must observe that someone has apparently not complied with that duty. You can't put a boa in front of every door. That's just not gonna work. So you will also have to give real credibility to enforcement. Only then will a quarantine obligation work. By the way, we started with the reischecker. We want to inform travellers much more intensively about what is expected of them. That's very similar to what you call it. That is indeed in accordance with German and Belgian practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u277	In the discussion about whether or not a travel ban is involved in how effective alternatives are. The moment you impose such an obligation, which will make people comply with it, it becomes more effective. If that doesn't happen and it doesn't continue to happen massively, the discussion is more likely to arise as to whether you should go to a flight ban. In what period can the Minister inform us about developments in the field of both urge and compulsion towards German example, so that we as a Chamber can keep our finger on the pulse? There is broad concern here about importing a British variant via flies. More parties that ruled out a quarantine obligation at an earlier stage now say you have to look at it. This does not apply to the CDA, because we were already opposed to the motion which ruled out a quarantine obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u278	I am going to inform you about the state of affairs in the next letter, and also about the moment when I can come to the Chamber with the duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u279	Fine. Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u280	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It can be short. Thank you for the Minister's answers to questions from GroenLinks and D66 on how to impose travel restrictions. Sometimes it's with a flight ban and sometimes it's with better testing. During this debate, we read that travellers from the United Kingdom and South Africa are now also offered, with gentle compulsion, on arrival in the Netherlands to do a test in the Netherlands. Shouldn't that also apply to travellers from Ireland, given the figures we see there today? We actually have a double lock on the door for travellers who are coming this way from the United Kingdom, South Africa and Ireland.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u281	I think that is a justified plea. I will record that with colleague Van Nieuwenhuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u282	Then I'll suspend for the switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u283	I give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u284	Thank you, Mr President. A number of topics have already been dealt with in interruptions. I saw some people looking a little hungry, so I won't give you long introductions. I have one question left. If there is still a need for reflection on other themes, I would like to hear it from your Chamber. There was a question from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen about the masks. We have debated this several times in the Chamber. Let me say that we all think it is of the utmost importance that people can be protected and safe to work. We'll share that. However, we have different roles in the way the rules of the game are set and executed. This applies to us as a government, but also to science and the profession. The guidelines for the use of medical oral nose masks are drawn up by science. They assume the risk of infection. They are then embraced by both science and the care sector. That has been looked at in an integral way. I would like to point out here that it is not pleasant to wear such a FFP2 mask. It can also be very incriminating. However, because it has been discussed in this way and also because of the role played, it is ultimately up to science, the profession, the representatives and the sector to adopt and implement that directive. The agreement that applies here is that people who work in the care are justified to make a different assessment based on their own professionalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u285	Mrs. van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u286	The government website shows the difference between those surgical mouth masks and those FFP2 masks, namely that the surgical mouth masks, also of the type IIR, do not protect the wearer from the environment, but protect the environment from the wearer. Although it stops the large drops, the splashes on the mask, the mask simply works less well against the infections via aerosols. There are a lot of nursing homes where according to the RIVM guidelines the surgical mouth mask of type IIR is used. So it's about care workers working outside the hospital. Those employees have indicated that they would very much like to work with an FFP2 mask, but the healthcare institution says that is not according to the directive. The RIVM directive simply states that it is possible to work with a surgical mouth mask, but, as Mr Van Dissel has already indicated in several technical briefings, that does not fit in well with the face.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u287	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u288	I do not quite understand why the Minister is not keeping a little tighter watch on the fact that even outside the hospital, in the nursing homes, where there are so many infections now, where so many care workers get sick, where even the army has to be used to maintain care, is chosen for an FFP2 mask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u289	My argument is that it is not for me to say from the government which mask should be mandatory in what situation, but that, on the basis of the state of science, the risk of contamination is stated when which personal protective equipment is used. That's what RIVM does. It's done by science. That's the standard. The people in the sector themselves then give their hands and feet to it, both on the part of employers and on the part of professional groups and workers' organizations. They have found each other in their application. Moreover, it has been stated that in a certain degree of occurrence of the epidemic, the adage applies: you use it, unless. Of course, that's true now. But what PPE is used in what situation, I let those who are concerned about it. In addition, at any time the professional can say: from my professional situation I want to deviate from the standard for these and these reasons. It's possible. I myself have no signs that this discussion is frequent. I know there's been a lot of discussion about it. It focused in particular on the presence of the PPE. I therefore assume that the directive, as we agreed with each other, can be amended if there are new insights, for example on the basis of the state of the epidemic, inspired by science.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u290	I have already mentioned the following in the previous debate. I passed on the name of a health care institution where a healthcare professional had asked for an FFP2 mask, but did not get it because the RIVM Directive is as it is and therefore surgical mouth masks were used. I don't quite understand why the Minister isn't talking about that. I'd like to hear that from the Minister. First it was said to the nursing homes because of the scarcity: please let us save the FFP2 masks for the hospital. In recent weeks new infections have arisen in no less than 271 nursing and nursing homes. Then it is really hard to explain that we are still working with surgical mouth masks, knowing that they are not working properly and that the neighbouring countries, including Germany, France, Austria, but also the United States, are making a very different assessment based on the WHO directives.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u291	Scarce is not a factor in this discussion. I would like to make that very clear. In the way of working the ball really lies with the professionals themselves, in science and with the people who work in health care, to say on the basis of the state of science what type of protection is needed. We have also had a wide-ranging exchange of views on this subject. I think my job, my responsibility, is to show that those stocks are there. We've been preparing for that, too. Changes are taking place, for example because there are other insights. That has also happened in the past few months. It is very good that that can happen, but it is not up to the government to initiate it. I think it is very good that science can do this. RIVM can do this. This may also be requested from the sector. I assume that new developments will also ensure that the directive is consistently reviewed. The starting point is to look at the risk of infection. Other factors are not important, because it is about people being able to work safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u292	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u293	Surely it cannot be that we have a very different science in the Netherlands than abroad? The WHO says it and so does the Food and Drug Administration. All kinds of renowned institutes support scientific facts and investigate the need for an FFP2 mask in the care of a proven covid patient. Surely it is not possible that we have a completely different science in the Netherlands and that our RIVM just says: we all put that aside and we work here with a surgical mouth mask that has all kinds of openings and we deliberately expose the care worker to the risk of contamination with covid? That can't be true, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u294	I don't want to leave that last one here. I would really hate for people to think that they are not adequately protected. The whole situation is precisely aimed at allowing people to work safely from scientific insights based on the level of infection. We do this from science, with the sector and the professions, with everyone together, so that it gets through and gets hands and feet. And it's up to the science to determine that. I am very willing to leave no doubt about this.... to ask the OMT to look at this from the latest insights. Frankly, that also seems to me to be quite relevant if we know more about the English variant. It would make sense if it led to new insights. For the current situation, I really think it is important for people to realize that they can work safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u295	Will you come back to that in the next briefing or something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u296	I'd like to do it in that order. We have now asked: what does this English variant mean? We need to know that first. We also have limited people and resources in this respect. I am prepared to ask the OMT in response to these new developments if that directive is still good.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u297	Okay. Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u298	Ask the OMT again? The government website simply states that a surgical mouth mask does not protect the wearer from the environment, rather the environment for the wearer. In other words, in proven covid patients, a surgical mouth mask is simply not enough. It would adorn the minister... I think it is essential that we ensure that the staff in care, including in nursing homes, are optimally protected, do not take any risks and use an FFP2 mask.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u299	In the goal we find each other, but this is not up to the government. I do not think it is up to a minister to say that this is the right way to go about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u300	This too has been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u301	But I do want to have said this. In the drafting of this directive, the professionals, the employers, but also the workers, the profession, the scientists and the sectors have united. Each of them can say: we want to keep this under review. That's what I can do. I have just indicated to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen that I am prepared to do so. But please don't tell us from politics what the state of science looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u302	No, Mrs. Van Kooten. There's been enough change, otherwise it'll be the same question for the fifth time and I can see everyone pulling out a little bit. No, not everyone. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u303	It may seem an insignificant subject, but it really is a very important subject. Absolutely, because it is not the first time we have had a discussion about the use of protective equipment. We happen to have a scientist on our team, who also advises us on this subject. I am not saying that we have the wisdom. We have also prepared written questions together with Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, and we will present them today. But the point is that this RIVM directive is totally inconsistent with today's science. The simple request to the Minister is: can you at least think of something to encourage RIVM, of course with scientific literature, to review that directive again?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u304	I would like to go to the heart of Mr Kuzu's question, because I am still standing here for half an hour if I were to respond to every word of his speech. I am not going to do that, but I have just promised that I am prepared to ask, but at the moment when we have an insight into how the English variant is developing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u305	This is the last point I should like to make. Of course, the British variant is important, but this discussion is independent of the British variant. It is a directive of the RIVM, without the British variant being discussed. This is much wider than that. It is really about whatever you have promised, namely to take a look at that directive on the basis of scientific literature. That doesn't seem complicated to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u306	However, I would like to say that there are many factors that play a role in the work of these professionals. This simply means that it has been looked at jointly by the profession and with the scientists. For example, wearing an FFP2 mask is very burdensome. It makes breathing very difficult. That is why it is not the most desirable in every situation, but ultimately safety is paramount. How is this safety defined? We do that by looking at the contagion risk. That's leading. No other element of the questions asked is leading. I'd like to take that care away. It is therefore, for example, a question of scarcity and a number of things that have not been mentioned, namely costs and how they are put together. The risk of contamination is leading and that is what the directive is based on. I also maintain that it is a great good thing that this is not influenced by politics, but I do think that we can see from politics whether it is still topical. I'm willing to do that, and that's why I promised. I'll do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u307	No, Mr. Kuzu. I suggest the Minister move on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u308	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u309	You're done! Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term on the side of the Chamber. I'll take a look around to see if you'd like us to suspend for a while. Suspend for five minutes to get the administration in order? Yeah? Then I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u310	I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u311	Thank you, Mr President. Three motions. I continue to find it unbelievable that we have hundreds of thousands of vaccines on the shelf and the Minister says they were used when they just weren't used. They may be scheduled, but they're not being used. That doesn't help any of us; they just need to be vaccinated with the people who want to. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas hundreds of thousands of vaccines have not been used;]] [[invites the cabinet to put all available vaccines in the next week,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-875]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u312	Then there is a motion that vulnerable people should be vaccinated if they want to be vaccinated, as the Health Council said, and that this should not only start in the first quarter, but should be completed as far as we are concerned, and not just somewhere in May, June, July. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that more than 3 million people are at risk of a serious development of COVID-19 and that 643,000 care workers are at high risk of becoming infected, but that no less than 7.6 million vaccines will be delivered in the first quarter of 2021;]] [[calls on the government to start and complete, in addition to the voluntary vaccination of healthcare workers, the voluntary vaccination of all those at risk of a serious course of COVID-19 in the first quarter of 2021, so that the pressure on hospitals and the sad situation in nursing homes and home care stops, the lockdown stops, shops, restaurants and schools can be opened again and young and old regain their freedom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-876]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u313	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a motion on financial compensation. I understand that we are still getting the documents from the cabinet with a separate debate afterwards. Nevertheless, it is important to support the entrepreneurs in this. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that self-employed persons affected by the hard lockdown are fully reimbursed for their costs and that the partner test is lifted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-877]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u314	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for the comprehensive answer. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the COVID-19 pandemic entails major and uninsurable risks for the organisation of major cultural and sporting events and festivals;]] [[Whereas certainty and perspective for organisation, artists, producers and suppliers are essential for considering an investment in an event;]] [[Calls on the Government to set up a guarantee fund for major events and festivals aimed at covering uninsurable risks and to take this decision before 1 February 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-878]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u315	I am very pleased that the Cabinet is making every effort to re-open childcare and primary education as soon as possible, but as you know, I am also concerned about the learning and study disadvantages that have been experienced. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the restrictive measures around COVID-19 lead to increasing and possibly lasting learning disadvantages and an increase in opportunities for pupils and students;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan and arrangements with education to overcome the disadvantages and inequalities that have arisen;]] [[calls on the Government to reflect the costs and benefits of unchanged policies and of this plan, to involve the use of funds already made available, and to agree on any additional financing in the spring decision-making process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-879]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u316	Mr. Chairman. A couple of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the lockdown creates educational disadvantages for all children;]] [[noting that, in particular, children already in a disadvantaged situation are receiving a lower level of school advice;]] [[noting that Dutch children have to make a choice for further education at a very early age and that this is decisive for the rest of their lives;]] [[Whereas deferment of selection ensures greater equality of opportunity;]] [[Calls on the Government to support education in achieving more broad bridge classes and late selection;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a national plan of action with the educational field and municipalities to combat inequality of opportunity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Ploumen and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-880]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u317	Then there's another motion about flying. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the British version of the corona virus is very worrying and that our care system cannot cope with an outbreak of the British variant on top of the current corona crisis;]] [[whereas at present eight flights a day from London arrive at Schiphol Airport, where there is a state of emergency and according to the Mayor 1 in 30 people are infected;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce travel restrictions for the next three weeks for countries where the VOC 202012/01 is dominant, including a flight restriction, so that only strictly necessary journeys are made,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-881]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u318	In order to clarify this motion, I would like to say the following. We have just had the debate on what is being done with additional tests. That is good and that is important, but the difference with how we deal with the catering industry and the retail trade here in the Netherlands could not be greater. In the Netherlands too, families have to make choices when they have to say goodbye to someone. Not everyone can be there. That's how hard we are for people who are in the Netherlands. Then we can really be harder when it comes to travelling in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u319	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions from our side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that schools should remain closed, with some exceptions, due to the high number of corona infections and unacceptable health risks;]] [[noting that staying close to schools for too long is detrimental to children's development;]] [[calls on the Government, in close consultation with the education sector, to develop safe alternatives during school closure to enable children to return to school in a way that is safe for pupils and teachers, and to include opportunities such as quick tests, 1.5 metres away, a mouth cap duty when pupils are not in their seats and for example half classes in the classroom while the other half attends the classroom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that creditors may seize the €1,000 coronabonus of caregivers and that directors may prevent that coronabonus from being added to caregivers' living expenses;]] [[Considers that it is unacceptable that the healthcare bonus can be taken away by creditors, all the more so because the healthcare bonus is based on respect and appreciation for caregivers who work day and night hard during the coronapandemic;]] [[calls on the government to make arrangements with bailiffs, judges and directors to ensure that the healthcare bonus always reaches the care providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ploumen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-882]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-883]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u321	Thank you, Mr President. I have a motion and a question. First the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona crisis is making a huge change for children, parents and teachers;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a national plan for education in which, in any case, learning disadvantages are avoided and overtaken as much as possible, ventilation in schools is put in place, crisis jobs are used to relieve teachers, parents are more supported in giving home education through corona leave and preparations are made to re-open schools when safe, including through the deployment of rapid tests, and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-884]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u322	Let me ask you another question. NRC has just reported that in the Meander Medical Centre the managers have been vaccinated, but not the obstetricians who provide emergency care and not the medical assistants. It is clear that that is very undesirable. I would ask the Minister to respond, but above all to take action, so that the vaccines end up with caregivers and vulnerable people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u323	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u324	Madam President. There's light at the end of the tunnel, but for now, we're still holding on to our hearts. Against that background, I understand the Prime Minister's compelling appeal when it comes to the curfew option, which we would all be unhappy with. But it's that serious. I'll mark one promise. On longer-term educational deficits, the Prime Minister said that it would be good to map them too, so that we can have a good view of what schools need in view of a possible budget after this. Then I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Government attaches great importance to the solidarity of access to vaccines worldwide;]] [[Whereas national public health, economics and security depend on how other countries are able to combat COOVID-19;]] [[Whereas the distribution of vaccines worldwide is far from the same and the deployment within COVAX is not yet sufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with aid organisations in a national relief action that enhances global solidarity by offering everyone vaccinated in the Netherlands the opportunity to contribute to the provision of vaccines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-885]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u325	Thank you, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to establish a temporary flight ban as soon as possible for non-necessary travel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the one-off ban on fireworks last year has resulted in significantly less fireworks victims and less damage, and this has spared the care;]] [[Whereas a large number of mayors and doctors have been calling for a general ban on fireworks for a long time;]] [[calls on the Government to reach a general ban on consumer fireworks as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-886]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-887]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Third and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that corona (SARS-CoV-2) is a zoonotic disease, an infectious disease that has crossed over from animal to man, and that scientists point out that a new zoonotic pandemic may break out at any time as long as no measures are taken to protect ecosystems and drastically reduce the breeding, capture and killing of animals;]] [[Considering that the Court has requested the Government to adopt a plan of action to significantly reduce the risk of the emergence of new zoonoses, but that the expert group still needs to be set up to this end and the results of their work are expected at the earliest before the summer of 2021;]] [[expresses concern about the continued risk of a new zoonotic pandemic;]] [[points out that there are no taboos in the approach to prevent the emergence of new zoonoses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-888]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u328	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u329	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government is considering the possibility of reopening primary education on 25 January;]] [[Whereas the Children's Ombudsman recommends that this be based on the importance of children in physical education at school;]] [[considers that opening up primary education from a social point of view is a priority;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare scenarios in the event that all reopening would not be justified on 25 January in order to opt for at least partial reopening or opening with additional measures to ensure safety at school,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-889]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u330	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u331	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u332	Mr. Chairman. A number of motions from the DENK side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a person may still transfer the SARS-CoV-2 virus after vaccination;]] [[whereas COOVID-19 may be of a long-term nature in our society;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a long-term strategy and perspective on how to deal with the long-term presence of the virus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-890]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u333	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that vaccines are offered from different manufacturers;]] [[noting that each vaccine has a different effect and effectiveness;]] [[Whereas the willingness to vaccinate may be increased when citizens are free to choose which vaccine they are taking;]] [[calls on the government to give citizens freedom of choice as to which vaccine they want to be administered,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hairdressers are no longer able to perform their work during the lockdown;]] [[Whereas the use of personal protective equipment and compliance with the corona measures allow hairdressers to continue to receive customers;]] [[invites the Government to have hairdressers reopened when they can demonstrate that they can apply all corona measures and personal protective equipment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-891]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-892]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u334	Mr Wilders will indeed be very pleased with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that alternative medical care providers are excluded from the list excepted contact professions during lockdown;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the list of contact professions excepted during the lockdown by excluding alternative care provided by the healthcare provider whose background is BIG-registered training from the contact profession ban,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-893]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u335	Then there is one more question open to the VWS Minister, which he would come back to in the second term. It is about the languages in which access can be granted in case of a negative... We can do that later if the Minister wants to, but we'll find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u336	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u337	Mr. Chairman. Given the risks of the British mutation, we really must do everything we can to reduce the number of infections, but first and foremost, vaccination must be carried out as quickly and as much as possible. I am pleased that the Minister is finally taking on board the advice of the Health Council and moving immediately on to the vaccination of vulnerable elderly people. I also welcome the commitment that transport will be organised for people who are not mobile and who need to go to a central vaccination site. We still have a problem with releasing the ban on triage based on age. You don't want to know how many reactions we're getting from our supporters. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the cabinet has released the ban on triage at age under code black;]] [[says that triage for a place in intensive care (ic) should only be done on the basis of vulnerability and survival and never on the basis of age alone,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-894]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u338	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a lockdown has more negative than positive effects;]] [[whereas even the WHO confirms this;]] [[Whereas multiple levels of lockdown damage to pupils and students;]] [[calls on the Government to lift the lockdown for pupils and students as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that due to the lockdown gyms are once again closed;]] [[Whereas sport and movement are crucial to maintaining healthy conditions;]] [[calls on the government to re-open the gyms immediately, taking into account the corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that alternative cures, such as osteopathy, cannot take place through the lockdown;]] [[Whereas this has undesirable effects on the health of many;]] [[calls on the Government to add the contact professions performing alternative medicinal products to the list of non-contact professions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that swimming lessons are prohibited because of the lockdown;]] [[Whereas this leads to a high learning disadvantage for children and a financial crisis for swimming schools and associations;]] [[calls on the Government to include swimming education in primary education, thus ensuring that any future measures announced for the same target group (children up to 12 years old) can be complied with in accordance with the same guidelines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-895]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-896]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-897]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-898]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u339	Madam President. I understand that the Prime Minister does not yet want to decide on elections to be postponed, but I would like the necessary preparations to be started in time so that we do not lag behind in a few weeks' time. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the OMT reports today that the measures may have to remain in force until early March, even if the current decline continues;]] [[Calls on the Government to make the necessary preparations in time for postponing the Lower Parliament elections to summer 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-899]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u340	Mr President, thank you. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the WHO, the Food and Drug Administration and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control advises at least FFP2 mouth nose masks to healthcare professionals working with covid patients;]] [[calls on the Government to review its PPE Directive for healthcare professionals, carers and others working with covid patients on the basis of the latest scientific findings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-900]]
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u341	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u342	Mr. Chairman. Just a few questions. First of all, I would like to discuss the question of the deadline for postponing the elections. As has been said, any decision to postpone is always a joint decision of the cabinet and parliament. This also requires a legal basis and there must therefore be sufficient time to produce and deal with a legislative proposal that allows for postponement. That must of course take place before the elections; that will be useful. I cannot be much more specific now, other than that such a law must have been dealt with and passed before the elections. Again, I have already said that, anyway, the Minister of the Interior will inform the Chamber before the election recess. The second question left to me was Mrs Ploumen's question on the G4. There is intensive contact between OCW and the G4. Twice a week there's a meeting between the education directors. There has also been talk of a joint approach to combating delays, emergency care and vulnerable children. Combating backlogs will also be discussed administratively by Minister Slob with the aldermen of the G4. As we all know, the G4 and other municipalities also often take a great deal of responsibility for combating delays. This means that actions are taken in the shorter and longer term. There are also regular contacts with the VNG. Then there's the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 877 by Mr Wilders. There's gonna be a letter about this, but 100% compensation goes a long way. We're gonna look at it all, so I'm gonna dissuade this motion; or he's gonna have to arrest her, that's an option, too, but I'm gonna have to dissuade her now. The same applies to the motion on item No. 878 on the guarantee fund for events. My suggestion to Mr Jetten is to keep it. As of August 2020, the event sector will look at the role of the public authorities in support so that the activities can be resumed. In the context of these discussions, the suggestion made by Mr Jetten together with Dijkhoff in this motion is taken into account. In next week's letter on the support package, we will discuss this further. This really needs to be looked at very carefully. It's a lot of money too, so there's nothing I can do now but ask for the motion to be held. Then the motion to part No. 879, by Mr Jetten and...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u343	What if the motion isn't stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u344	Then I have to discourage the motion, because it's just untimely. The motion in part No. Mr Jetten gave his verdict on 879. The motion in part No. 880, by Mr Klaver, is judged Chamber. The motion in part No. 882, by Mrs Marijnissen, is judged Chamber. I'll tell you something about that. OCW is constantly talking to sectors about safe education. Physical education is, of course, preferable, but it must be done responsibly. Sectors are considering how this can be as well designed as possible. That is what is happening, and that is why the motion for a resolution is given to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 884, by Mrs Ploumen. That motion reflects many and necessary discussions, but the motion also suggests a large master plan. All individual elements are subject to intensive consultation with sectors. The Chamber is also regularly informed about this. But the intention is not to make that a very big plan again, because we are afraid... I must therefore discourage the motion. You could say that the motion is unnecessary, because all the elements are at gunpoint.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u345	Yes. No debate on the motion, Mrs Ploumen, otherwise I have to give everyone the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u346	No, certainly, Mr. Chairman. I have a suggestion for the Prime Minister. It's not so much a plan as a plan. Above all, it is a question of making financial resources available and not just talking about them. So if the Minister says 'no plan, but I will say that the necessary financial resources will be released for this', I am prepared to amend the motion. Of course, because that's the core.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u347	I can't promise you that here either. When it comes to those crisis jobs, that's the case, there's money for that. But about the corona leave, we're talking to social partners. I already told you that in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u348	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u349	So I can't just promise that money here. So I think I have to say, unfortunately, 'unadvised' on balance, as much as I would have liked to have left a Ploumen motion for a resolution Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u350	You fought like a lion, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u351	Yes, I've seen it. The motion in part No. 887 by Mrs Ouwehand. The fireworks ban was explicitly related to the current pandemic. This does not give rise to a general ban on fireworks, rather than the structural bans already in force specifically for dangerous fireworks. So I'd like to dissuade this motion. The motion in part No. 889 by Mr Van der Staaij will receive a ruling from the Chamber, as will the motion in part No. 878 on this. We're gonna talk to the sector how to open it. Of course, I cannot anticipate the content of scenarios now. We'll prepare them, along with the sectors. Moreover, a partial opening is very difficult for the sector. However, with those reservations, the motion in part No. 889 Judgment Room. The motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The same applies to the motion in part No. 895 by Mr Van Haga. Also for the motion in part No. Mr Van Haga (ED). - (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Haga on his excellent report. 898 by Mr Van Haga. The motion in part No. 899 by Mr Krol is premature. The Minister for Foreign Affairs comes before the election recess with a letter on the matter. So I want the motion in part no. 899 also dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u352	Thank you. Then we'll just wait a minute. Mrs. Sazias has a question. Yeah? Very briefly, Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u353	Yes, chairman, I'd still get an answer in the second term about...
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u354	I did. Extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u355	Sorry, I'm going to read that in the Acts now.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u356	Given the service, I thought that was about postponing the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u357	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u358	On this point, I said that at the latest before the elections, it must be 'no', seriously, because it is a draft law and that law must have been passed before the elections. So you can't put a date on it, but you do need a law. That could also be an emergency law. But it's not like you can put a hard date on it. But, yeah, let's assume you'll have to be an end by the beginning of March if you want to deal with that law. I suppose that's why it has to go through the Upper Chamber, because I think all the laws have to go through the Upper Chamber. That's what I learned in school. So all this still has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u359	Good. Okay, thank you. Then we'll just wait a minute. I will give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u360	Thank you, Mr President. The motion in part No. 875 belongs to Mr Wilders. What he's saying is true. Anything that's there is gonna be pricked or planned. And more than there is already planned. In short, with reference to the first deadline, I would advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 876. Mr Wilders' sum is also wrong, so I would advise against this motion with reference to the first deadline. Then the motion to part No. 881. I advise against that motion by reference to the first term. Everything there is to possible limitations, we do. If we need a ban on flying, we will not hesitate to do so either. Then the motion to part No. Mr Segers. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Segers on his On this motion, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 886 on a temporary flight ban. I advise against it by reference to the first term. Then the motion to part No. 890 on a long-term strategy for the long-term presence of the virus. Let us do our best to prevent the virus from being present for too long. So I also advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 891 concerns freedom of choice for vaccines. I have had a little debate on this with Mr Van der Staaij. I advise against that motion, because it adds too much complexity. Then there was a question from the PvdA following a newspaper report about a hospital where managers had apparently counted among the priority groups. I haven't been able to verify that message's true. What's in the paper is, of course, generally true. Let's at least assume that. But I haven't been able to check it out, so I'm not quite okay with going into that message very precisely for that particular hospital itself, if I don't know exactly what the fork is like. It may also be that it is just nurses who have managerial duties at the same time. Then it would be a very right choice. I saw in that newspaper report a phrase from a spokesperson who says: yes, but these people also work very hard, 24/7 or whatever. Of course, that's not an argument to stand in front of the line. There's a lot of people working really hard. That's not an argument to stand in front of the line. That's my reaction for now and I'm assuming this employer also just knows what the arrangements are. Then there was a question from Mr Kuzu about the languages. Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u361	You'd answer that in Chinese.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u362	Yes, it is. I'd answer that in Mandarin. But here's the thing. From outside Schengen, people are not supposed to come to Europe at all. Within Schengen, the negative test declaration applies, in more languages than Mrs Kaag has mastered. I think there are really a lot of opportunities to present that test statement in a good way. That seemed sufficient, because it is within Schengen. That was the choice and the consideration. I think that Mr Timmermans is even more powerful, but that has never been established with certainty. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u363	Mr Jetten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u364	I understood that the motion in part No. 881 with the first signatory Mr Klaver has been dissuaded. This surprises me, in fact, after the debate between the Minister and Mr Klaver and Mr Heerma on travel restrictions. Let me make the comparison with Germany. Germany now has travel restrictions for the United Kingdom. That doesn't mean they're not flying anymore. There are currently six flights a day between London and Germany. So that's very limited. Necessary trips are still possible. But between London and the Netherlands there are twenty-five flights a day. With the motion for a resolution, we are asking for a reduction in the number of flights to limit that inflow from the United Kingdom. I had the impression that the Minister and Mr Klaver and Mr Heerma were more in line than I hear in the assessment of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u365	We also have travel restrictions, namely that triple lock with testing. This is also a form of travel restriction, which is a very strict travel restriction, which at least ensures that the virus stays outside. That's one. Two. You can set a flight ban, but we only do that if it's proportional. If it's necessary, we'll do it. That's what we showed you. Three. A selection of flights, for example a halving, is a possibility that the Minister does not have. In addition, we have that declaration of necessity that you could make in conjunction with a flight ban: a flight ban unless you have a declaration of necessity assessed by another. We have studied this possibility very extensively, but there is little music in it. I know from my colleague, Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen, that she will continue to look for what is possible, but if I leave this motion to the Chamber, it raises more expectations than I think I can. That's why I wouldn't want to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u366	Good. Thank you. Then we'll wait a moment before I give the floor to the Minister of Medical Care. Or did you forget something, Minister De Jonge?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u367	I made a very big mistake, a very big mistake. I have to fix it, or I'll fight with all the people in Dronten forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u368	Oh, we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u369	No, we don't. Here's the thing. We're going to test large-scale. That's what we're going to do in a number of municipalities, including Dronten. I have argued this with: wherever the prevalence is very high, we are going to start with large-scale testing. In that list I mentioned Dronten. But the prevalence is not absurdly high in Dronten. In doing so, I have done great wrong to Dronten, which I wish to restore. Apologies to all residents of Dronten, the beautiful municipality of Dronten.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u370	Thank you. I'm sure you got a message that Dronten wasn't happy about it. Who's here from Dronten?
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u371	My uncle's been mayor there for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u372	Oh. I now give the floor to the Minister of Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u373	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part no. 883 by Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. This is indeed a subject which the Court of Justice has recently addressed. He has indicated that the seizure of the bonus is permitted by law, but that it must be done separately. The Supreme Court advises the court bailiff to contact, for example, the creditor to consider the matter. I would like to propose that this motion be retained, because I would like to present it to the colleague from Social Affairs and Employment. I will ask him to come forward with an appreciation for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u374	I'm looking at Mrs. Marijnissen. Yeah, she wants to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u375	The motion in part No. 888 is a speech-expression, so I won't appreciate it. Then the motion to part No. Mr Kuzu (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Kuzu on his excellent report. I advise against this motion, because the criteria for what medical professions are are the BIG registration and the provision of Health Insurance Act care either Wlz or Wmo care. Given the epidemiological situation, it is not justified to extend it. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 893. The motion in part No. 894 by Mrs Sazias is also a speech-expression. I am therefore abstaining from an appreciation on this point as well. Then the motion to part No. 897 by Mr Van Haga on the admission of alternative medicinal products. This motion I advise with the same argument as in the motion in part No. Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Then there is Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's motion to item No. 900. I would advise against this motion because the PPE guidelines for the hospital have been drawn up by the Federation of Medical Specialists. For outside the hospital, RIVM started this. The field parties continued this in a practical hand-out. However, I indicated to ask the OMT if the English variant gives reason to look at the PPE usage differently. I will keep that promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u376	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2021-01-13-tweedekamer-4.u377	We will vote on the motions tabled next week. I would like to thank Members of Parliament, the spokesmen, in particular the Prime Minister, the Minister of VWS, the Minister for Medical Care, the messengers, the clerks and the stenographic service. I wish you a very nice evening. Thank you.
